

601 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life in a Ghost Town;
New Admirers Rebuild a Mineral-Spring Retreat

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

DATELINE: SHARON SPRINGS, N.Y.

 BODY:
The ghost town of the white elephants.
That is the way many old-timers here still think of this historic mineral-spring village. For decades its gingerbready, abandoned Victorian resort hotels perfectly demonstrated the triumph of entropy and the second law of thermodynamics: disorder always increases. Porches inevitably sag. Roofs must collapse. 
 Even now, to boast that Sharon Springs has undergone a miraculous rebirth is way premature.
But here's the situation: The moldering wood-frame hotels have ceased flaring like Ronsons from the torches of firebugs. The din and sawdust of restoration are everywhere. The most threatened hotels and guest houses are being renovated. Eager tourists are arriving to seek out shabby chic amid the phosphorescence of decay. Spas, mineral baths and curative waters have a select new generation of acolytes. And it must be acknowledged: there is now cappuccino. There are focaccia sandwiches. There is chilled curried ginger carrot soup.
In the Mohawk Valley and Leatherstocking domains, the revival of Sharon Springs "is representative of what's happening all over the region, but the village was so far down that the effort is all the more impressive," said Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society of New York. He has spent every summer near Sharon Springs since boyhood and has observed the nascent renaissance with surprise, and delight.
State Senator James L. Seward, who represents Sharon Springs, said: "There are many such efforts by revitalization groups in a lot of towns in this region, but the turnaround in Sharon Springs is more dramatic than anywhere in my district. These people are making believers out of everyone."
Less than a decade ago, said Dawne Belloise, "at least 80 percent of Main Street was condemned." Ms. Belloise, a Coloradan who first saw the crumbling five-block main drag in 1990, was so charmed by "this eerie village," as she put it, that she moved to Main Street and now, to her astonishment, she finds herself working "100 hours a day" restoring a ruined grande dame, the 130-room, 150-year-old Roseboro Hotel.
The improbable comeback of this profoundly neglected village in an economically stressed region was not sanctioned by a penny of government money at the start. Nor was it underwritten by millionaire benefactors. "It came right up from the ground, a grass-roots effort by a group of individual people making individual decisions," Mr. Barwick said. "And it could reach critical mass."
The viability of this revival is related to such variables as the prevailing economy, the uninterrupted supply of affluent, educated second-homers from New York City (three and a half hours away) and Columbia County (two hours away) and new cyberworkers in the area, and the exponential growth of a new travel phenomenon, heritage tourism: the quest for things historic by well-heeled tourists.
There is history all right, in abundance. Sharon Springs -- which had its first guest lodging in 1825 and has a current year-round population of 550 -- once drew 10,000 resort visitors in the summertime. In the mid-19th century, Vanderbilts and Roosevelts arrived with Adirondacks of baggage. President Ulysses S. Grant visited the village's Pavilion Hotel to take the waters. Oscar Wilde led porch-side readings.
Then the fickle rich abandoned the village for Saratoga Springs. But members of the wealthy Jewish elite were snubbed there, so they made Sharon Springs a high-end refuge of their own. Ultimately the village became a magnet for middle-class Jews. Sharon Springs was known for its magnesium water, iron-rich water, sulfur water and "bluestone" water for healing the eyes.
After World War II, Sharon Springs got a second wind from the West German government, which paid medical care reparations to Holocaust survivors, holding that therapeutic spa vacations were a legitimate part of the medical package. Many hotel guests had tattoos on their arms.
"It was flourishing when I was there," said former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who in the summer of 1946, at the age of 22, was a busboy in the Adler Hotel. "But I couldn't enjoy the mineral springs because I was a slavey."
Mr. Barwick remembers "streets awash with Satmars" and "70 women on the Roseboro porch, all playing cards."
But by the 1960's, the resort hotels were dying or dead, victims of turnpike motels, cheap jet fares and a restless new generation of tourists. Driving through on his way to Albany, Senator Seward, who lives half an hour from Sharon Springs, remembered that "there were times when you wouldn't see a living person," he said. "It was an eerie scene, with these magnificent structures; the phrase 'ghost town' would come to mind."
The most imposing surviving white elephant in the village was the disintegrating four-story Roseboro, which started life in the 1830's as a residence, began welcoming guests in 1850 and kept expanding until 1915. Until recently, the collapsing structure was a time capsule, with calendars on the wall from 1968 (the year it closed).
Its would-be saviors are Ms. Belloise and her partner, Dennis Giacomo, now both 48, who found themselves on vacation looking for property near Cooperstown 20 miles away and were "sucked in by Sharon Springs the second we saw it," she said.
They bought an 1859 Italianate house on Main Street for $25,000 in 1992 and have been renovating it ever since. Mr. Giacomo, an executive recruiter for Dennis Allen Inc., a specialist in insurance-industry management, was able to move in "because I'm in a fax-and-phone business," he said.
The mayor invited Ms. Belloise to be on the planning board, and within a year she was heading it up. Then she reinvented the inactive Sharon Springs Chamber of Commerce. Soon Ms. Belloise, an overachiever, became president of the Sharon Historical Society, and she and Mr. Giacomo founded a free concert-and-theater series that since 1994 has drawn about 500 people to Main Street every Wednesday in July and August.
Ms. Belloise also led a successful 1996 application to list the 177 structures in the village on the National Register of Historic Places as a mineral resort.
Meanwhile, Doug Plummer, a former actor and caterer for Glorious Food in Manhattan, and Garth Roberts, a pianist and musical-theater director, were so taken with the area that they bought a vacation house near Sharon Springs in the early 90's, then moved there permanently.
Looking for a way to make a living, and eyeing the village's defunct greasy spoon, they opened the Rockville Cafe and Bakery in 1993 on Main Street. Before long it became the local hangout for townies, farmers and new residents, many of whom became the nucleus for the rebirth of the village.
Concerned that the collapsing Roseboro might be demolished or succumb to firebugs, Ms. Belloise and Mr. Giacomo tried to find a buyer. No such luck. To their mutual horror, they found themselves offering the owners a low bid of $20,000, "knowing they'd turn it down," said Ms. Belloise, but ultimately it was accepted. "We had a stiff drink. The reality was that we thought we'd just committed ourselves to a $3 million project, when we had maybe $30,000 to spend."
Actually, so far they have spent $250,000, by dipping into savings, selling off properties and getting second mortgages on everything in sight. Now they have a $150,000 line of credit from the Bank of Richmondville, a local institution.
Their ultimate goal is to open the Roseboro as a hotel, but in the interim, they have sufficiently refurbished the lobby, the parlor and the men's prayer room (now the kitchen) to accept their first banquet booking, a wedding on Sept. 23, "the first in the hotel in at least 40 years," Ms. Belloise said.
Up Main Street, Mr. Plummer, 40, and Mr. Roberts, 39, are bringing back a smaller white elephant, the stately American Hotel, an 1847 Greek Revival structure with 26 rooms that closed in the 1950's. They bought it for $18,000 "and if you like decay," Mr. Plummer said, "it's quite something." Mushrooms sprouted from timber supports. Up on the second floor, there were dead raccoons.
Totting up their savings, loans from parents and friends, and a crucial low-interest loan from the Mohawk Valley Economic Development District, they have amassed $400,000 to save the American. They and their contractors are toiling to open nine guest rooms, a bar and a dining room by next April.
Locals were startled by the energy of the newcomers. "I couldn't fathom the idea of these people getting in so much trouble over an old hotel," said Omer Cousineau, 65, a letter carrier in Sharon Springs for 30 years. "You know, other people tried to bring them back before, and failed."
Beyond this, "a lot of the older people around here were opposed to change," said Henrietta McFee, 77, who has lived in Sharon Springs since 1961. The new revivalists struggled for three years to change the village zoning so that hotels, restaurants and bars could legally operate once more.
"There were times when I thought it was all over here," said Richard Brustman, 58, who has witnessed the death and rebirth of the town since 1945, when his family ran a hotel, the Brustman House, on Union Street.
"The town was resigned to its fate, but Dawne wouldn't let people give up," he said of Ms. Belloise.
Once the ball got rolling, Senator Seward helped the town get a $25,000 state grant to develop a park on Main Street; the New York State Council for the Humanities kicked in $11,000 to install 20 permanent walking-tour plaques on Main Street. And Ms. Belloise, a Web designer, created and paid for the village's elaborate site, www.sharonsprings.com.
Slowly, the nucleus of regenerators kept growing. Maureen Iseman-Broeking, a model and actress and a friend of Mr. Plummer's, bought a house on Main Street and is now a local yoga and dance teacher and village trustee. Clyde and Pat McLean drove to a garage sale in Sharon Springs and wound up buying not only the garage, but the house.
They allow themselves to think that it will all work out. "What's happened is great, but it could all disappear so easily," Mr. Plummer said.
The restorers, most of whom are not Jewish, keep toiling away, trying to make Sharon Springs new again while retaining such artifacts as the ritual mezuzas on the door frames and other traces of the lost world. So what are all these gentiles doing restoring these Jewish hotels?
"We were chosen," said Mr. Plummer with a laugh, adding: "No, really, we have a feeling that the hotels picked us. We believe these are living entities. That's the only way to explain why they survived so much adversity and neglect."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Roseboro Hotel, being restored by Dawne Belloise and Dennis Giacomo, below, dates to an era when Sharon Springs, N.Y., drew luminaries like Oscar Wilde, who signed the register at another hotel.; A woman soaking in water from sulfur springs at the Imperial Baths. The resorts of Sharon Springs once drew 10,000 summer visitors. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Adrienne Barbour filled a bottle with mineral water for Ed Ksenica on Monday at the White Sulfur Spring in Sharon Springs, N.Y. Springs helped to make the village a resort for the wealthy and powerful in the 1800's. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B2)
 
Map of New York showing location of Sharon Springs: By the 60's, cheap air fares had made Sharon Springs less desirable. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROSEBORO HOTEL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (75%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); PHYSICS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); ARSON (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); 

PERSON: SHARON SPRINGS (93%); KENT BARWICK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000



602 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TAX PLAN;
Bush Tax Plan: The Debate Takes Shape

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24

 BODY:
In the shorthand of presidential politics, Gov. George W. Bush's tax cut proposal is either an overdue effort to return to citizens what is rightfully theirs, or, as Vice President Al Gore puts it, a risky scheme to reward the wealthy.
Underlying that political debate are a welter of complex and ideologically charged economic policy issues that have a strong bearing on the government's fiscal health and the nation's chances of extending its long run of prosperity. 
 Does Mr. Bush's tax cut fit within the projected federal budget surpluses, or would it endanger the government's chance to pay off the national debt? Would the Bush plan extend the long business expansion or lead the red-hot economy to blow a gasket? Would it apportion the federal budget surplus fairly to everyone? Are tax cuts -- especially those, like Mr. Bush's, that would reduce income tax rates -- a more productive economic use of the surplus than increased government spending?
Objective answers are hard to come by, as they always are with tax policy, but the parameters of the debate are well defined.
Much of the focus is on the scale of Mr. Bush's plan, which would reduce all income tax rates, double the child credit, provide a break for married couples, repeal the federal estate tax and expand the deductibility of charitable contributions.
Mr. Bush's tax cut would reduce federal revenues by $1.3 trillion in the nine years starting in 2002, and it would use up $1.6 trillion of the surplus over that period. That figure includes the increased interest costs the government would have to pay if any of the surplus was spent or used for tax cuts.
But that would make Mr. Bush's plan considerably smaller than the tax cut championed by President Ronald Reagan in 1981. If it had not been partially offset by subsequent tax increases before it became fully effective, the Reagan plan as passed would ultimately have amounted to an annual tax cut equal to 4 percent of the gross domestic product, according to a calculation by Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research group.
If fully enacted, the Bush plan would eventually reduce taxes by about 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product, Mr. McIntyre said.
More important than its absolute size is whether the tax cut is affordable, given the size of the projected budget surplus.
Over the first nine years of the Bush tax cut, starting in 2002, the total surplus is projected by the Congressional Budget Office to be $4.3 trillion, assuming that government spending rises at the rate of inflation.
Of that, $2.1 trillion would be the non-Social Security surplus, which is the portion up for grabs for tax cuts and spending. (The two political parties have agreed that the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security should go only to reducing the national debt or shoring up the retirement system.)
So on the face of it, Mr. Bush's tax cut in that nine-year period -- $1.3 trillion plus $300 billion in interest costs -- would still leave $500 billion for other purposes.
But there are already many calls on that $500 billion. There is considerable bipartisan support for taking off the table, for tax cuts or spending, the portion of the surplus being generated by Medicare, which is more than $300 billion over the nine-year period.
Both parties are heading toward adding a prescription drug benefit to Medicare. There is backing in both parties for tax cuts not included in Mr. Bush's proposal.
And Mr. Bush has made expensive commitments of his own, from expanding access to health care to building a national missile defense.
Moreover, there is no assurance that the surplus will materialize as projected. Even if it does, history suggests that more of it might go to spending programs than is assumed in the surplus projections, given the well-established propensity of both parties to spend more than they say they will.
But Mr. Bush's team said there was plenty of money available for the tax cut and for other needs. Mr. Bush has said he can save $200 billion over the next decade by improving the way government operates, and he has vowed to crack down on government spending. His plan makes no provision for taking the Medicare surplus off the table. Even after adding $256 billion in spending increases over 10 years for the military, education, agriculture and other programs, his advisers say there would still be a substantial buffer left.
"Governor Bush asked us to identify the biggest problems in the tax code and come up with a way of fixing them," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, the head of Mr. Bush's economic team.
"The reforms he's suggesting do just that while preserving a balanced budget and allowing a paydown of the national debt," Mr. Lindsey said.
Even if the tax cut is affordable, there is a debate over whether this is the right time to enact it.
For the last several years, the economy has been running at or above what most economists consider to be its capacity for noninflationary growth, and by putting more money into the hands of consumers, a tax cut could be expected to further stimulate growth.
That in turn could increase inflation pressures, leading the Federal Reserve to try slowing the economy down again by pushing interest rates to a higher level than they would be otherwise.
Mr. Bush's team said the fiscal stimulus would be very modest, and in any case would be far less than the stimulus created by the government spending increases backed by Mr. Gore and President Clinton.
Moreover, Mr. Lindsey said, Mr. Bush's tax cut would be phased in gradually over the decade, and, "No one knows what the economic circumstances will be in 2004 or 2005."
As Mr. Gore has increasingly emphasized a populist message, he has tried to focus attention on who would benefit most from Mr. Bush's proposal.
An analysis by Citizens for Tax Justice found that 59.4 percent of the total tax cut would go to households with incomes in the top 10 percent, $92,500 or more, with that group getting an average tax cut of $6,410.
The bottom 60 percent of households, those with incomes less than $39,300, would get 12.6 percent of the total tax cut, an average of $227, according to the analysis.
Mr. Bush's team looks at the question from a different angle, suggesting that lower-income people would benefit proportionately more than upper-income people, at least relative to the size of their existing tax bills.
The Bush campaign produced figures showing that a family of four with two incomes totaling $47,500 -- the national median -- would see its federal income taxes decline by 56 percent under the Bush plan, to $1,493 from $3,393 under current law. By contrast, a family of four with one worker making $250,000 would see its tax bill fall by 13 percent, to $59,187 from $68,031.
"High-income people would pay a bigger proportion of the tax bill after the Bush tax cuts than before them," Mr. Lindsey said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX RELIEF (92%); TAX LAW (92%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INFLATION (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); MARRIAGE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000



603 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Lazio Defends Tax-Cut Plan As Tool to Spread Prosperity

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 25

 BODY:
A day after he proposed large tax cuts if elected senator, Representative Rick A. Lazio today fended off skepticism from Democrats and sought to defend his plan as a way to continue and spread prosperity.
Mr. Lazio, the Republican nominee, visited a thriving business in nearby Malta and then came here to discuss his tax plan in interviews with five television stations. Aides to Hillary Rodham Clinton, his Democratic opponent for the United States Senate, have called it a "reckless" venture that would squander the surplus and stifle the economic boom. Mrs. Clinton's campaign office said Mr. Lazio's plan would produce $1.24 trillion in cuts, rather than the $776 billion Mr. Lazio cited. 
 Mr. Lazio fired back, saying: "This is a campaign that is based now entirely on fear-mongering, on negative attacks, on ripping our state apart. I can't imagine that Mrs. Clinton is proud of the kind of campaign that she's waging right now."
Mr. Lazio's tax cut plan -- a compilation of ideas he has talked about on the stump as well as those advocated by other Republicans -- includes as its centerpiece a proposal to allow people to deduct from their federal income taxes the payroll tax that finances Social Security. He also called for reducing the capital gains tax to 15 percent from 20 percent and eliminating the inheritance tax and the so-called marriage tax, among other taxes. He suggested that federal surpluses of $4.4 trillion projected over the next 10 years would offset any loss of revenue.
Just as Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has sought this week to snuff out mounting criticism of his presidential campaign's $1.3 trillion, 10-year tax cut plan, which Democrats have also characterized as too risky, Mr. Lazio set out right away to back up his plan.
Today, he toured the Racemark International Inc. plant in Malta. It is an industry leader in producing floor mats for cars, mainly high-end models by BMW and Mercedes-Benz, and this year orders have increased 15 percent, said the company chairman, Bob Bailey. Mr. Lazio said the company was a bright spot in an upstate economy that he said Mrs. Clinton viewed as too bleak. He said his tax cuts would bring the same prosperity to other parts of the state.
And in five satellite interviews with stations in Buffalo, Binghamton, Syracuse, Rochester and Westchester County -- all markets in a region that both camps consider a key battleground for votes -- Mr. Lazio sought to drive home his points.
"The estimates we have are based on nonpartisan sources," Mr. Lazio told viewers in Syracuse.
"The reduction in the capital gains is important to stimulate business to continue to invest in themselves" was a message for Rochester.
"It's a responsible tax plan that will help incentivize economic development," he said to Westchester.
But by the end of the day, Mrs. Clinton, for one, remained unconvinced. Her proposals would trim taxes by $496 billion over 10 years and include a cut in, rather than elimination of, the marriage penalty and inheritance tax. She has said that the surplus should be used first to pay down the national debt and then to shore up Social Security.
"Hillary has presented New Yorkers a plan to provide targeted tax cuts and preserve Medicare and Social Security," said Cathie Levine, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Clinton. "Rick Lazio's reckless $1.2 trillion tax cut would explode the deficit and drive interest rates sky-high."
Her comment was in a statement that included a compilation of what the Clinton campaign said was Mr. Lazio's negative campaigning. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX RELIEF (92%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); MARRIAGE (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000



604 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
BUSH VOWS TO PUT GREATER U.S. FOCUS ON LATIN AMERICA

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: DALLAS, Aug. 25

 BODY:
Charging that the Clinton administration had neglected Latin America, Gov. George W. Bush pledged today to put those countries at the center of his foreign policy agenda and outlined a way of thinking about the region that placed it on a par with American interests in Europe and Asia.
Mr. Bush's remarks, at Florida International University in Miami -- a site chosen by his campaign for its cultural, ethnic and immigrant links to Latin America -- were part of an indictment of the administration, which he said had pursued an aimless strategy in Latin America of "summits without substance." 
 But the speech also dwelt in an unusually lengthy and vigorous way on Mr. Bush's sense of the importance of the region to the United States. Excerpts, Page A9.
"Our future cannot be separated from the future of Latin America," Mr. Bush said. "Should I become the president, I will look south not as an afterthought, but as a fundamental commitment."
"Those who ignore Latin America do not fully understand America itself," he said. "And those who ignore our hemisphere do not fully understand American interests. This country was right to be concerned about a country like Kosovo, for example, but there are more refugees of conflict in Colombia. America is right to be concerned about Kuwait, but more of our oil comes from Venezuela. America is right to welcome trade with China, but we export nearly as much to Brazil."
Mr. Bush also said that President Clinton had "dropped the ball" on trade, failing to build on the North American Free Trade Agreement, which Mr. Clinton inherited from Mr. Bush's father and pushed through Congress, with a broader free-trade zone throughout the hemisphere. And he complained that Mr. Clinton had not obtained so-called fast-track negotiating authority from Congress to conclude further trade pacts with individual countries.
Mr. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, proposed a few new programs to help countries in Latin America and protect the interests of the United States, but they involved relatively small amounts of money.
He called for an extra $100 million a year in small-business loans to Latin American entrepreneurs, an additional $100 million a year in debt forgiveness for countries that took steps to protect tropical forests, an American Fellows program that would encourage Latin Americans to work in United States government agencies, and a counselor at each United States embassy in Latin America who would encourage charitable activities by American organizations and corporations.
He also talked about helping train law enforcement officials and judges there and providing countries with more help in fighting the production and export of drugs.
But he seemed most interested in simply making clear his philosophy and priorities.
After the speech, Mr. Bush traveled to the Dallas suburb of Richardson for a private meeting with Vicente Fox Quesada, the president-elect of Mexico.
Both the speech and the meeting with Mr. Fox allowed the Texas governor, whose lack of expertise on foreign policy has been highlighted by several verbal gaffes and challenged by Vice President Al Gore, to cast himself as a statesman engaged in the affairs of the world.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox followed their meeting with a news conference at which they exchanged gifts -- Mr. Fox got a Stetson-style hat that Mr. Bush called a sombrero while Mr. Bush got cowboy boots -- and Mr. Bush repeated a pledge from his speech that if he is elected president, he will arrange a summit meeting with Mr. Fox in November, before either man is inaugurated.
Mr. Bush said at the news conference that this would signal his belief that the relationship between the United States and Mexico was one "of the most importance."
He had said earlier, in his speech, that he wanted Mexico to have as close and special a relationship with the United States as Canada and Britain did.
Mr. Bush's remarks and events today also carried a potential political advantage. The Republican nominee has been trying hard to woo the votes of Hispanics, and their support for him could determine whether he wins some of the states with the most electoral votes, like Florida, where Mr. Gore has recently mounted an aggressive campaign.
Mr. Bush appealed directly to Cuban-Americans in Florida, where his brother Jeb is governor, with a strongly worded vow in his address, titled "Century of the Americas," promising not to ease economic sanctions against Cuba unless its leader, Fidel Castro, instituted democratic reforms.
"My word to you, Mr. Castro: let your people live in freedom," Mr. Bush said, drawing perhaps his loudest ovation.
The speech and the conversation with Mr. Fox, who met the day before with Mr. Clinton and, separately, Mr. Gore, came at the end of one of the rockiest weeks in Mr. Bush's campaign since the spring primaries.
And there was something undeniably unusual about the governor turning to the arena of international affairs as he sought to regain his balance.
But his advisers said that the speech was scheduled weeks ago, and they noted that unlike several of his previous addresses on international affairs, this one allowed him to claim some firsthand knowledge of the subject, given that Texas and Mexico share a border. Mr. Bush, for example, had met Mr. Fox at least two times before today.
But Douglas Hattaway, a spokesman for the Gore campaign, said Mr. Bush was clearly not prepared to represent the United States to the world.
"Just this week," Mr. Hattaway said, "he criticized our own military readiness, and his record as governor consists mostly of ribbon cuttings for new bridges to Mexico."
Other aides to Mr. Gore said Mr. Bush's remarks ignored many of the administration's successful efforts in Latin America. They noted that Nafta, which opened trade between the United States, Mexico and Canada, was signed into law by President Clinton in 1993.
They also drew attention to the Caribbean Basin Initiative, which promoted trade among those islands, and what they described as successful efforts to curb or end violence in Ecuador, Peru and Guatemala and to provide financial aid to Mexico and Brazil at crucial times.
Moreover, they said, Mr. Clinton's inability to gain fast-track authority to negotiate trade agreements without amendments by federal legislators was the result of a Republican-controlled Congress that would not give it to him. At the time, in addition to Republican opposition, some Congressional Democrats also opposed the legislation for fear of alienating labor constituencies.
But Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's chief foreign policy adviser, said Mr. Clinton nonetheless warranted blame, because it was his responsibility "to state an agenda and persuade and cajole people to follow it."
"You can't seem halfhearted about it," Ms. Rice added, implying that Mr. Clinton had.
Ms. Rice said Mr. Bush's comparison of Kosovo and Colombia was not an argument against military intervention in the former place or for such intervention in the latter.
Rather, she said, it was an expression of Mr. Bush's philosophy that "you start with strong neighbors and reach out from there."
She and Mr. Bush both said that the Clinton administration's recent approval of extra aid to Colombia for a fight against drugs and corruption was the right course of action.
In previous foreign-policy speeches and remarks on the campaign trail, Mr. Bush has identified many areas of the world as especially important to the United States, including the Far East, the Middle East and Russia.
And nothing in his remarks today suggested he was lifting Latin America high above those.
Mr. Bush has not yet made a priority of Africa, which has been discussed more extensively by his rival, Mr. Gore. Like Mr. Clinton, however, neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Gore has suggested that they would change the American position that there is no strategic interest in Africa that would warrant either military intervention or major economic aid.
Both Ms. Rice, in interviews with reporters, and Mr. Bush, in the address itself, said that what the Clinton administration -- Mr. Bush called it the Clinton-Gore administration -- had essentially failed to do was perpetuate and extend the strides in peace, democracy and trade that were well under way in 1992.
That was when Mr. Bush's father, in the last full year of his presidency, lost his re-election bid to Bill Clinton. Ms. Rice worked as a Russia expert on the National Security Council under President George Bush.
Ms. Rice said that while Mr. Clinton signed Nafta, "I think the Bush administration laid the groundwork."
Reflecting on the situation when his father, whom he did not actually name, left office, Mr. Bush said, "The promise of that moment has been squandered."
As a result, he said, the drug traffic in Latin America was too heavy, the disparities in wealth were too severe and there were too many "vast, urban slums where children scramble for survival."
Mr. Bush said both in his speech and at the news conference with Mr. Fox that he believed the border between the United States and Mexico needed to be vigorously enforced, but that it must be done "in humane ways."
Mr. Fox has called for a more open border, and Mr. Bush said the men had discussed that issue, but the Texas governor dwelled on their common belief that Mexico was a country and economy on the rise.
"His victory sends a strong signal of reform and modernization in Mexico," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Fox's election.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush in Florida. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Condoleezza Rice, foreign policy adviser to Gov. George W. Bush, with him on his campaign plane, said Mr. Bush's philosophy was to "start with strong neighbors and reach out from there." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (58%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (58%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INDICTMENTS (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); REFUGEES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); CHARITIES (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (61%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (61%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000



605 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE REACTION;
What They're Saying About the Bush Tax Cut Proposal

 BODY:
Not since Ronald Reagan in 1980 has a Republican nominee's promise of a sweeping tax cut played so dominant a role in the presidential race. The New York Times asked a number of business executives, scholars and politicians to assess Gov. George W. Bush's tax plan. 

Henry Kaufman
President
Henry Kaufman & Company
Financial management and consulting
I really believe that at this stage of our economic expansion, where the economy continues to be very strong and has a high utilization of labor resources as well as factory resources, he should pursue a very conservative fiscal policy. And therefore significant tax cuts should be postponed until the American economy slows down significantly or falls into a business recession. Small tax cuts here and there are all right, but significant tax cuts are inappropriate for the current setting.
I also believe that continued large reductions of the government's debt would be most helpful in sustaining the very favorable current climate in both the bond and stock markets.
You have to put this into two stages: the immediate impact on the financial markets and the economy, and the longer-term impact. Major tax cuts over the very near term will be adverse to the current favorable economic and market climate. Cuts over the longer term can be phased in, but should only begin when the economy slows down very sharply.
 
Ronald Bullock
President
Bison Gear and Engineering Company
Maker of electric gear motors
I think it is good to be giving money back to the people who have paid for getting us to the balanced budget. From my vantage point as a small-business owner, the last tax increase, in 1993, the big increase that funded the budget surplus, it has cut into the amount that we have left to reinvest into the company. And reinvestment creates jobs.
I'm not complaining that we have come as far as we have in reducing the budget deficit and creating a surplus. I am not begrudging the taxes that I have paid. But now maybe it is time to free up some capital for additional investment. With interest rates as high as they are, it would be good to offset this through a tax reduction that allows us to retain more for investment.
 
Richard Nelsen
Economics professor
Columbia University
I want to comment not so much on the details of the Bush tax reduction plan as on aspects of the economic philosophy behind its size. The sometimes implicit but often explicit theory is that private spending at the margin is much more socially valuable than public spending. Hence, the relaxation of the fiscal constraint should be largely done through tax cuts and increased private spending rather than by putting more funds into certain public programs, although Bush has made defense an exception.
But presently this society is not spending enough on schools to prevent many of them from physically crumbling. Our airport space and traffic control systems are greatly overstretched, causing misery for American passengers. Many of our public parks are a disgrace in terms of their maintenance. All of this is lost from view and implicitly denied in a tax cut proposal that only sees benefits from increased private spending, as the Bush proposal does.
 
Dean Baker
Co-director
Center for Economic and Policy Research
It really makes no economic or social sense. From an economic standpoint, it is not clear that we would want to stimulate the economy at this point. But if we did, cutting taxes for wealthy people, which is what Bush mainly proposes, would not be the way to do it. There is very little argument for his tax cut in terms of economic incentives, since much of it goes to reducing the marriage tax and the inheritance tax, which barely change incentives at all.
From a social standpoint, the vast majority of these cuts are going to the wealthiest people, who have already prospered tremendously in the last decade. If we want to be giving money to anyone, we should be looking to give it to the working poor and to middle-class workers, the vast majority of whom get very little under this plan.
 
Richard Sylla
Professor of financial history
Stern School of Business, New York University
The projected budget surpluses are very large, so there is room to have tax cuts of the magnitude he is proposing, as well as some increases in public spending. Every penny does not have to go into debt retirement.
And he makes a good point: People are saying, "This is really our money, not the government's money." That really resonates.
Al Gore will say the Bush cuts favor the rich, but to my mind it is well known that the people at the upper income levels pay most of the taxes, so any tax cut is going to seem to favor the rich. If when the government needs more money you put it mainly on the rich, eventually you find that the rich are paying most of the taxes. So any cut will favor them.
 
Alan J. Auerbach
Economics professor
University of California at Berkeley
Taken as a whole, the Bush tax cut is not good economic policy, because it's too massive. The revenue losses are quite substantial and would grow over time. The current budget situation, although certainly more favorable than it appeared a few years ago, is still such that the short-run surpluses overstate the long-run fiscal stance of the government. And we are overstating the short-run surpluses to the extent they incorporate funds that shouldn't be considered available or depend on questionable assumptions.
While the on-budget surplus doesn't include the Social Security surplus, it does include the Medicare and government retirement programs, which, by the logic that leaves the Social Security surplus off budget, also shouldn't be available for tax cuts or spending. And among the surplus base lines made available by the Congressional Budget Office, there isn't one that would keep spending in line with the growth of the overall economy. All the base lines assume a continuing decline in the share of G.D.P. devoted to domestic discretionary spending.
 
Senator Paul Wellstone
Democrat of Minnesota
It's like the old Yiddish proverb that you can't dance at two weddings at the same time. When you look at the arithmetic, you can't have these massive tax cuts and at the same time leave no child behind. You can't do that and be a compassionate conservative. If you're going to make an investment in the health, skills, intellect and character of children in America, you can't do it on a tin-cup budget. With the kind of tax cuts Bush wants, there's nothing left. You can't have it both ways.
That was the great ideological victory of President Reagan. You can argue that his tax cuts were regressive, but the real point was that they so eroded the revenue base that they made any kind of investment look fiscally irresponsible, which was probably what he wanted and believed in. But that approach doesn't work for Governor Bush, who wants to be seen as a compassionate conservative. He can't live up to his own rhetoric.
 
Senator Connie Mack
Republican of Florida
 The Bush plan is a broad tax cut that gives tax reductions to every income group in America. It does so through the reduction of marginal tax rates, which we believe encourages savings and investment. That's an economic policy.
Gore, on the other hand, has specific, targeted tax cuts, which basically say to people, "If you act the way government wants you to act, you will get to keep some of your money." I don't think that's economic policy; it's a social-engineering concept.
The Bush plan has a very positive effect on job creation. Today most small businesses pay taxes through individual income tax rates. By reducing marginal individual rates, it reduces the burden on small businesses. It would also increase savings for education and increase investment in scientific research and the development of new technology. It's new technology that will allow America to remain the most competitive economy in the world.
 
Richard F. Syron
Chairman and chief executive
Thermo Electron Corporation
Instrument manufacturer
Either the Gore or Bush proposal has laudable objectives. But the first question you have to ask yourself is, What is broken in the economy? If it is not broken, what are you doing? I would be quite careful about fiscal stimulus from either the tax side or the spending side. Most of our attention should be focused on paying down the national debt, because we have far too low a personal savings rate.
The criticism of my view will be that it's traditional economics. My answer is that long-term productivity gains and long-term growth come from investment. Investment has to be financed from savings. Therefore, keeping personal savings as high as possible is desirable.
 
Lawrence Kudlow
Chief U.S. investment strategist
ING Barings
George Bush's tax-cutting plan will nurture Internet prosperity by reducing personal tax rates, eliminating the estate tax, ameliorating the marriage penalty and easing penalties on successful low-end wage earners. It will also prevent Washington from gobbling up the barrel of overflowing surpluses. The plan uses only a quarter of the $4.6 trillion budget surpluses expected over the next 10 years. It does not touch Social Security surpluses, and leaves $700 billion for debt reduction and other priorities. Positive economic incentive effects from reduced marginal tax rates will push out the aggregate supply curve to more than absorb demand increases without raising prices. No need for Fed tightening.
 
Edward Yardeni
Chief investment strategist
Deutsche Bank Securities
As a taxpayer, I love the concept. As an economist, I would rather let the surpluses accumulate until we have paid off all of the outstanding $3 trillion in publicly held U.S. federal debt. Then we can revisit proposals for cutting taxes. Paying off the debt will give many Americans an effective tax cut by lowering mortgage-financing costs. I estimate the 10-year government bond yield could fall to 4 percent by the middle of the decade if the surpluses continue to accumulate as projected by the C.B.O. In this scenario, fixed-rate 30-year mortgage yields could fall to 6.5 percent.
As an economist, I also know that forecasting is hazardous work. Legislating a huge multiyear tax cut now, based on projections of the federal surplus, is questionable.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS332111 IRON & STEEL FORGING (54%); SIC3462 IRON & STEEL FORGING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KAUFMAN & CO (72%); BISON GEAR & ENGINEERING INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); SPEED CHANGER DRIVE & GEAR MFG (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000



606 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Faith

BYLINE: By Jack Hitt; Jack Hitt is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine and National Public Radio's "This American Life."

 BODY:

BLOOD OF THE LIBERALS
By George Packer.
 405 pp. New York:
 Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26. 
 Liberals, who haven't had a good day since sometime in late 1965, won't be having another one this morning. Their "ism" is now the subject of America's favorite funereal genre, the memoir. What poverty was to Frank McCourt, what alcoholism was to Mary Karr, what death was to Dave Eggers, liberalism is to George Packer. It's the dysfunction that serves as the larger-than-life force that shapes the people in his book as they wretchedly press up against a thing they can never quite comprehend. Liberals can take some comfort: Packer shows how liberalism occasionally succeeds by failing frequently.
Like those other memoirists, Packer was born into unusual circumstances that permit him to tell a remarkable story. His grandfather was a turn-of-the-century agrarian progressive in Alabama; his father a mid-century intellectual Jew in California; and Packer himself is a political nomad trying to unearth the meaning of a concept that sometimes seems as dated as feudalism.
Packer nicely threads the day-to-day decisions of his father and grandfather with the larger ideas that possessed them. As the stories of their lives unfold, the often dry history of liberalism (movements, coalitions) gets told at the intimate level of flawed men straining to make an idea of the world mesh with the whimsies of human nature. This book belongs on the shelf next to "Angela's Ashes," "The Liars' Club," and "A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius."
Packer's grandfather, George Huddleston, was elected to Congress from Alabama in 1915 and set out to resolve the paradox that tormented Jefferson. How do you square a right to liberty with a claim to equality? Jefferson (and Huddleston) believed that the agrarian model -- being free both politically (civil rights) and economically (self-sufficiency) -- led to natural virtue and equality. But by the time Huddleston went to Washington, industrialization had already made a travesty of that idea through such excesses as "convict lease" -- a deal where states would "rent" their prisoners to the new factories. Early in the century, convict lease generated as much as one-third of Alabama's budget. The police arrested almost anyone for anything, concerned less about keeping the peace than supplying the labor.
Huddleston was cautious in his efforts to use federal power to snatch back some portion of Jefferson's ideal of individual freedom from the teeth of corporate power. These were the days of trust-busting schemes such as Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom and Theodore Roosevelt's New Nationalism. Conservatives, at the time, resolved the dilemma (between ballooning conglomerate power and shrinking civic equality) by simplifying Jefferson's ideas as mere equal opportunity -- an argument that survives on talk radio today. "Freedom meant the freedom, guaranteed by the Supreme Court, to hire children," Packer writes. "Equality meant that in theory anyone could become Andrew Carnegie."
Packer nicely captures his grandfather's nuanced thinking over decades, concluding with his vote against the New Deal as too great a coalescence of federal power. Huddleston's president shunned him for it, and in 1936 he was voted out of office. Packer tells this story not from the halls of Congress but from within Huddleston's dining room, where the author's mother gambols about, enchanted with all these big ideas. What we see is not just some politician getting dumped but the horror of a little girl watching her daddy's fall.
Herbert Packer, the author's father, was an early meritocrat. Growing up near New Haven, he managed to overcome two negatives -- being local and being Jewish -- to gain admission to Yale. He served in the Navy before becoming a legal scholar and a classic programmatic liberal in the post-New Deal, post-Huddleston mold. "Procedure," he once said without irony, "is at the heart of all liberty." This second section of this book is tinged with a pathos that the author occasionally paints with too heavy a brush, but just as often hits perfectly. When the father is asked to analyze the procedural fairness of anti-Communist Congressional hearings like the ones on Alger Hiss, he gets lost in the Borgesian task of deconstructing 200,000 pages of testimony and suffers from "suicidal depression" before delivering up a bloodless tome entitled, "Ex-Communist Witnesses: Four Studies in Fact Finding."
"His passion lay in reason," the son writes. "This was not the building block of a powerful political movement. Millions don't rally to the banner of Uncertainty. Procedural liberalism takes the individual in isolation; there is no class or community whose interests and desires it answers. It stands alone, like a man sifting through 200,000 pages without a hope of finding answers."
Herbert Packer concludes his career -- almost poetically -- like his father-in-law. The passage of time has made his once ardent liberalism look like sold-out lumpen conservatism. In Packer's case, he winds up as an administrator at Stanford at the height of the Vietnam War. He wrecks himself struggling to reason with radicals capable of unanswerable sentiments such as "students are niggers," and he suffers a destructive stroke. His lifelong love of reason is now trapped inside a stroke victim's emotional storms.
Packer fils tells this story -- not from the halls of Stanford but from within his own dining room. We see not only an intellectual being destroyed but also the horror of a little boy watching his daddy's fall. Packer can construct some powerful declarative sentences: "My father's right arm hung against his body, the useless hand curled rigid. He brought the food to his mouth with his shaky left hand. His thoughts now reached his tongue and stuttered out 30 seconds too late. When his frustration was unendurable, the curses exploded in thick choked stammers. Dinner became the sound of silverware."
In the final part of the book, Packer himself -- he is the author of "The Village of Waiting," a memoir about his experience in Africa, and two novels -- graduates from Yale and begins his own liberal odyssey. He joins the Peace Corps just as Ronald Reagan is revamping it. "English teachers," Packer writes, "were being phased out for small-business advisors." In a hut in Africa, he has an existential crisis of sorts and he begins a pilgrimage through liberalism's last precincts. He joins the Democratic Socialists of America (a detour that provides many fine comic riffs), volunteers at a soup kitchen, attends the Promise Keepers' Washington march, works as a carpenter and then, the final humiliation, becomes a magazine writer.
Liberalism is in exile, Packer proves (rather painfully), yet rather than abandon the hope of reform he soldiers on, quite absurdly for now, preferring the windmill-tilting of his family's creed to the ease of joining in with conservatism's refrain of the Big No. Almost immediately after the American Revolution, Packer writes, property "ceased to be the safeguard that made you virtuous and became what it is today: the commodity that made you rich." Yet despite the fact that "Jefferson's republic where no one owned anyone else" collapsed into a perpetual market-oriented bazaar, we can't quite forget those early democratic hopes, our cornball ideals, those beautiful sentences. ("We hold these truths.") Liberalism revives, Packer concludes, when we remember. Those notions still haunt us today, "like a memory of youthful idealism that occasionally disturbs the torpid compromises and evasions of our middle-aged afternoons." From time to time, Packer writes, "not more than once a century -- it suddenly reappears, and our slackness produces a wave of self-disgust, and we hurl ourselves into reform."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Henrik Drescher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LIBERALISM (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT PACKER (95%); GEORGE HUDDLESTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



607 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: The Fourth R

BYLINE: By Sara Mosle; Sara Mosle is writing a book about an explosion at a school in East Texas during the oil boom of the 1930's.

 BODY:

 LEFT BACK
 A Century of Failed School Reforms.
 By Diane Ravitch.
 555 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $30. 
 Education, at the top, is a very small world, resembling nothing so much as an American high school where rival cliques vie for power and prestige. Everyone knows everyone else, having served at some point on the same blue-ribbon panels, attended the same academic conferences or even taught in the same schools.
For more than a century, writes Diane Ravitch in her new book, "Left Back," the "in" crowd has been the "progressive" educators, the inheritors of a tradition that began with John Dewey. In the nation's education schools, particularly Columbia's Teachers College, they are the popular kids, the ones who get invited to the professional equivalent of the prom, hold positions in student government and receive the adulation of their peers (if not necessarily of a wider public). Opposing them has been a smaller band of conservatives who have set up their own clubs and think tanks. The animosity between the two has often rivaled that between the jocks and the nerds.
In this charged atmosphere, even those who might prefer to carve a middle path are often forced to align themselves with one group or the other, if only for protection. Although Ravitch clearly admires the work of many progressive educators -- Deborah Meier, Howard Gardner and Theodore Sizer are among those she names in "Left Back" -- she has often run with the conservatives, serving at one point in the early 1990's as the assistant secretary of education in the Bush administration.
Consequently, she is often (wrongly) labeled a right-winger and has suffered the casual professional cruelties of being in the unpopular set. In truth, Ravitch strikes me as a very old-fashioned liberal, of a pre-1968, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. bent. She has described herself as both a Democrat and an Independent, yet is not so partisan as to be averse to working with Republicans. Her positions on issues like standards and multiculturalism are far more nuanced than her critics often give her credit for, and she has a talent, as Albert Shanker did, of speaking her mind, irritating friends and foes alike. In the past, she has come out for higher teacher salaries, instead of merit pay, which must have annoyed some of her colleagues on the right, and earlier this year she publicly quit as a consultant to George W. Bush's presidential campaign when he refused to meet with the Log Cabin Republicans.
Still, there is no denying that Ravitch is a fierce opponent of what she perceives as a virulent anti-intellectual strain in the teachings of dozens of educators whom she describes, somewhat reductively, as "progressive." The history of their ideas is the subject of "Left Back." Ravitch sees the past through the present, and her lens is the current debate over standards and a national curriculum (both of which she supports). Her thesis is that as public school enrollment surged in successive waves after 1900, progressive theorists -- like Edward L. Thorndike, William Heard Kilpatrick and James B. Conant -- repeatedly sought to water down the curriculum by creating "undemanding vocational, industrial, or general programs" into which women, blacks and poor immigrants were shunted, all in the name of "democracy" and "meeting the needs of the individual child."
Although these progressive ideas took different names and different forms -- the "child-centered" movement, the "social efficiency" movement, the "life adjustment" movement -- they all shared a mistaken belief, Ravitch writes, that the vast majority of students couldn't master the rigorous pre-college curriculum previously offered exclusively to elites. Instead of reducing educational inequality, she argues, such reforms actually served to aggravate racial and social stratification in the nation's schools at just the moment when universal education was becoming a reality. As Ravitch says, practices now viewed as anathema by progressive educators -- I.Q. testing and grouping children by ability into "tracks" -- began as liberal reforms, designed to sort kids into the academic haves and have-nots.
Not everyone, of course, agreed with these approaches. Some educators -- most prominently, William Chandler Bagley, a proponent of liberal education -- insisted, as early as the 1920's and 30's, that America should offer the same curriculum to all students, no matter what their economic or social background. Yet as Ravitch shows, such egalitarian views were usually denounced as "conservative" or "reactionary" because the standard academic fare (Latin, algebra, chemistry and the like) was regarded as stultifying and elitist.
As a matter of theory, Ravitch's case against progressives is persuasive. "Time and again," she writes, "experts urged the schools to de-emphasize reading, writing, history, mathematics and science; to drop foreign languages; to replace history with social studies; to eliminate high-quality literature and substitute for it uninspired scraps from textbooks; and to teach only what was useful and immediately functional." Her method is to hang prominent theorists with their own words -- often citing excessively long passages from their writings (to avoid, I suspect, charges of quoting out of context) -- as they describe, in sometimes shockingly undemocratic terms, how the country's "army of incapables" can't be expected to achieve even basic literacy or numeracy. Those most hurt by these ideas, she argues, were disadvantaged children who had "the greatest need for the intellectual stimulation that schools were supposed to provide."
As a matter of practice, however, Ravitch is on less secure ground. As she concedes, parents and teachers have always rejected reformers' wackier notions. Periods of innovation have invariably been followed by back-to-basics retrenchment (after Sputnik in the 1950's, and after the "Nation at Risk" report in the 1980's, for example). Indeed, as the scholars Larry Cuban and David Tyack have observed, despite the American penchant for educational fads, "the idea of school" has remained surprisingly consistent over time (Ravitch even quotes Cuban on this point). And in cities where specific progressive programs were mandated, they have seldom been adopted in ways that their originators intended.
It's also a little unfair to pin anti-intellectualism in the schools on a small band of theorists ensconced at Teachers College. Anti-intellectualism has always been a feature of American life, arguably more prevalent on the right than on the left. Its best representative at the moment is probably Governor Bush, who calls for improving schools even as he all but brags that he is stupider than his pointy-headed opponent, Al Gore. And the religious right has done far more, in the name of "creationism," to retard the teaching of science in this country than any progressive curriculum. Similarly, women, blacks and immigrants weren't "left back" educationally in the first half of this century solely because a few progressive theorists argued for a diversified curriculum!
Ravitch's sheer animus against the progressive tradition -- whose very real contributions to education she mentions in passing but never quite acknowledges -- may baffle lay readers. Her book is best understood as a scathing indictment of the ed-school "in" crowd, where an atmosphere of what Orwell once called "orthodoxy-sniffing" -- sniff, sniff, are you a good progressive educator?" -- has predominated. If Ravitch is too pessimistic, it's perhaps because she has spent too much time in this dispiriting world.
But instead of "A Century of Failed School Reforms," she might have subtitled her book "The Triumph of American Education." For as her old mentor, the pre-eminent scholar Lawrence A. Cremin, once observed, "Popular education . . . is as radical an ideal as Americans have embraced. It is by its very nature fraught with difficulty, and the institutions we have established to achieve it are undeniably flawed. Yet it is important to be aware of what has been accomplished."
Since 1900, we have gone from educating a tiny elite group to providing true universal education to most Americans through high school. No country in the world tries to educate a greater portion of its children, or for longer, than the United States. Women, blacks and the poor have not only become essential parts of the public school system but have made great strides. That's not an argument for complacency, but it's worth remembering how far we've come. Ravitch's contribution in "Left Back" is to help us realize how far we still have to go.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Seymour Chwast)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); MERIT PAY (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



608 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Beheading

BYLINE: By Eugen Weber; Eugen Weber is a professor of history at the University of California, Los Angeles. His latest book is "Apocalypses, Prophecies, Cults and Millennial Beliefs Through the Ages."

 BODY:

 THE FURIES
 Violence and Terror in the
 French and Russian Revolutions.
 By Arno J. Mayer.
 Illustrated. 716 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
 Princeton University Press. $35. 
 All history is contemporary history, reflecting current questions, engaged in topical debates. Arno J. Mayer's hefty opus, "The Furies," addresses chapters of a past still very much a part of our present and convulsions that continue to polarize and stir emotions -- not least the author's own. In his preface, Mayer refers disdainfully to "ex-Communist renegades" and "ultraconservative historians" who fault the French and Russian Revolutions for "all the purgatorial fires of the 20th century." Revolution, Clemenceau once said, "is all of one piece." You have to take the good with the bad. Mayer agrees. His revolutionary glass is half full or better. Still, he feels the need to explain how easily, how naturally, revolutions skid from hope to horror.
Mayer traces the road from reform to rage and terror, one of menace and fear, vengeance and countervengeance, exhilaration, self-delusion and mutual carnage. He has wise things to say about the blending of traditional enmities and new war cries, about the clash between urban imperialism and rural distrust, about the satisfaction of butchering familiar enemies rather than complete strangers, about the rise of informing as a civic virtue. He points out the link between revolution and foreign war. He reminds us that both France and Russia were more than four-fifths rural on the eve of their revolutions, fair warning to those who attribute the French Revolution to Voltaire and Rousseau, or the Russian to Marx.
There are many ways to read this long, rich and idiosyncratic book. As Mayer warns, objective and value-free study of the subject is impossible. So, throwing objectivity to the winds, I find it hard not to conclude that in both France and Russia movements for reform as well as revolts against hard times and unbearable conditions were hijacked by small groups of true believers determined to precipitate a radically new social and political order. Revolting against orthodoxy and oppression, both revolutions introduced orthodoxies and oppressions far worse than those that they rejected. Both attempted to build liberty upon heaps of corpses, stability on intimidation and fear, fraternity on systematic terror.
In Mayer's view, the furies of revolution are "fueled above all by the resistance of the forces and ideas opposed to it" -- just as, presumably, the wrath of a mugger is kindled by his intended victim. Mayer, of course, is more discriminating than that. He is more disposed to empathy than to excoriation: that's the historian's way. The trouble with his empathy is that it sometimes turns his explanations into exculpations, by presenting aggression as defensive -- which it sometimes was -- and by treating victimizers as victims of circumstance.
This becomes striking when he deals with Stalin's Soviet Union. "It is difficult if not impossible," Mayer tells us, to "equate Stalin and Hitler," and he quite sensibly points out that demonization of the Soviet leader hinders critical study. But critical study need not entail rationalization of monstrous policies. Soviet pots were as black as Nazi kettles. Indeed, the millions dehumanized and murdered by Stalin were more numerous than Hitler's victims. "Leaving aside the human costs," Mayer writes, "the economic achievements of the first five-year plan were astonishing." But the human costs were astonishing, too. How could they be left aside?
It is in this spirit that ex-Communists become "renegades" -- a term that may simply denote rejection of party and principles they found unsatisfactory, but that is more commonly used in the pejorative sense of deserter or turncoat. "People's democracies," meanwhile, are referred to without qualification. What democracies? Which people's? And while it's true that "counterrevolution was not innocent," it is far from clear that "without it there would have been no Furies." In Mayer's den of fear, however, there are many mansions; and the pressures said to drive revolution toward terror extend liberally to foreign threat, refusal to knuckle under to unreasonable demands, even failure to show enthusiasm at the right moment.
More generally, the grand sweep of Mayer's argument glides over particulars and shortchanges crucial details. Personalities, for example, were central to both the French and Russian Revolutions, since those who presided over terror navigated in narrow circles where ideological debate often masked more personal antipathies and ambitions. We know too little about such matters; but the least we can do is indicate that they count. Inexperience in public affairs, which Mayer mentions once in passing, was another key ingredient, especially in France. The best-known representatives of the Terror were too young not to be ham-handed. Robespierre died at 36, Danton at 35, Saint-Just at 27, not a moment too soon.
In his preface, Mayer suggests an analogy between the revolutionary furies of the modern age and those of Aeschylus' Greece, which leads a wonderfully expressive title into untenable territory. Mayer's "Furies" are the raging Erinyes, who emerge from darkest hell with snakes in their hair, whips and torches in their hands, to spur retribution. They are, he writes, "entwined with an endless cycle of spiraling violence . . . characteristic of moments of rupture and (re)foundation." But, Mayer goes on, the Furies can also be Eumenides, the "Kindly Ones" as the Athenians called them, who represent the "difficult transition from a crescendo to a diminuendo of violence." In fact, "Eumenides" was an antonym intended to flatter the wrathful Erinyes and thus avoid their ire. Be that as it may, Mayer's metaphor better fits the French experience, which laid the grounds for a secular democracy, than it does the feudal kleptocracy of post-Communist Russia.
Both revolutions were driven by demons or deities that surged from the lower depths of hell or society to torture their victims and to drive them mad. But Aeschylus' Eumenides as much as the Erinyes were there to protect family, society and the world at large against anarchy, to punish crimes that disturbed social order and to hold in check the hubris that in making men forget that they were mortal, encouraged them to challenge order and the gods. Hubris was much in evidence after 1789 and after 1917. But the Erinyes were tamed in the former case; in the latter, murder remains unpunished, crime unavenged. Perhaps the revolutionaries were right, and old deities really have run out of steam. The demons, meanwhile, rage on. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (92%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); WRITERS (71%); 

PERSON: ARNO J MAYER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



609 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Madame Prime Minister

 BODY:

 To the Editor:
In her review of "Madam President," by Eleanor Clift and Tom Brazaitis (July 30), Joyce Purnick attributes the perennial scarcity of female presidential and vice-presidential candidates to not enough women being "in the pipeline," that is, in high-visibility positions. This is a logical point. But it leads me to wonder if the British political pipeline was inhabited by women to any significantly greater degree in 1979, when Margaret Thatcher became prime minister. Purnick points out that in public life "a woman's looks are still so important," but Lord knows, Thatcher did not rise to the top on the babe factor. Even less was she endowed with compassion, one of the qualities that John F. Kennedy declared the first woman president would need in plenty. Margaret Thatcher, for all her breathtaking dearth of personal magnetism and devastating economic restructuring, remained in office 11 years. What did Maggie have that today's women politicians lack? Who knows? Maybe it was her sensible shoes.
 
David English
Somerville, Mass.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (88%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



610 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4424 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Fisheries

BYLINE: By John Tierney; John Tierney writes the Big City column for the Metro section of The Times.

 BODY:
John Sorlien, a lean, sunburned fisherman in rubber overalls, was loading his boat along the wharf at Point Judith, R.I., not far from the spot where the "Tuna Capital of the World" sign stood three decades ago. Back then, you could harpoon giant bluefins right outside the harbor. Today, you would have a hard time finding one within 20 miles. Since the early 1970's, the tuna have declined -- along with cod, swordfish, halibut and so many other species in the ruined fisheries of the Northeast. Sorlien, like the other fishermen in this harbor just west of Newport, is surviving thanks to New England's great cash crop, lobsters, but he wonders how much longer they'll be around. "Right now, my only incentive is to go out and kill as many fish as I can," Sorlien said. "I have no incentive to conserve the fishery, because any fish I leave is just going to be picked by the next guy."
Like the men who wiped out the buffaloes on the Great Plains in the 19th century, Sorlien is a hunter-gatherer who has become too lethal for his range. He is what's known in the business as a highliner -- a fisherman who comes back with big hauls -- but every season the competition gets tougher. When he got started 16 years ago, at the age of 22, he used a small boat and set traps within three miles of shore. These days, he doesn't even bother looking in those waters, which fishermen now refer to as "on the beach." He has graduated to a 42-foot boat and often goes 70 miles out to sea for lobsters, which can mean leaving the dock at midnight and not returning until 10 the following night. Each year, he has had to go farther and haul more traps just to stay even. 
 Solien was starting the season on this May morning by loading hundreds of the traps onto his boat, the Cindy Diane. The four-foot-long steel cages, each baited with a dangling skate fish, would spend the next eight months at sea. Sorlien would be tending 800 of them in all. On a typical day, he would haul 300, sometimes 400, up from the ocean floor to remove lobsters and insert fresh bait. As he stacked one 40-pound trap after another on deck, it was easy to see why he and so many other lobstermen have back problems. "My chiropractor says he can always tell when it's lobster season," Sorlien said.
The chiropractor is treating the consequence of what fishery scientists call "effort creep." Over the years, as Sorlien got a bigger boat and gradually doubled the number of his traps in the water, other lobstermen were doing the same. It was an arms race with no winners and some definite losers: the lobsters. Their life expectancy plummeted. "Lobsters used to live for 50 or 75 years," recalled Robert Smith, who has been lobstering at Point Judith since 1948. "When I started, it was not unusual to get a 30-pound lobster. It's been 20 years since I got one that was even 20 pounds." Last year, the biggest one he caught was four pounds, and that was an anomaly. Most lobsters don't even make it to two pounds. Biologists estimate that 90 percent of lobsters are caught within a year after they reach the legal minimum size at about age 6.
"If you translate that to the human population," Sorlien said, "it means that our industry is relying almost entirely on a bunch of 13-year-olds to keep us going. That doesn't seem too healthy. If we get some kind of environmental disruption that interferes with reproduction one year, we'll end up with nothing to catch for a whole season. We just go from year to year not knowing what to expect. I don't have a clue what kind of year this will be for me. It's like we're backing up to the edge of a cliff blindfolded, and we don't know if we're 50 feet away or have two wheels over the edge."
The obvious remedy would be to restrict the amount of fishing going on, as lobstermen have traditionally done in some communities. They have created informal local groups -- called harbor gangs by anthropologists -- in which they divvy up the nearby seabed, determining who can fish where, how long the season will be and how many traps each man can use.
The harbor gangs are built around the management principles of Tony Soprano. If a fishing trawler drags a net through their waters, destroying their traps, the lobstermen may dump an old car onto the seabed, which will rip the trawler's net the next time it's dragged. If an outside lobsterman intrudes, he might find a threatening note inside a bottle in one of his lobster traps or attached to the buoy above the traps. He might find that someone has removed his lobsters and left the traps conspicuously open or maybe applied a chain saw to the steel cages. More commonly, the intruder will find that the rope from the buoy has been cut, leaving the traps lost on the seabed. If he doesn't take the hint, his boat might be burned or sunk. Last summer, the Coast Guard barely rescued a lobster boat in Rockport, Me., that was going down. The owner, Robert Crowe, a newcomer to those fishing grounds, said someone had gone on board at night and destroyed the boat's battery, smashed the windows and beaten the engine with a hammer. "It's a lobster war," he explained.
The gang tactics yield both biological and economic benefits, as James M. Acheson reported in his 1988 book, "The Lobster Gangs of Maine." Acheson, an anthropologist at the University of Maine, found that the lobstermen who most avidly defended their turf were able to make more money with less effort because the lobsters in their waters were larger and more plentiful. But the tactics generally work only in waters close to the gang's home. The open ocean is harder to defend. One small patch 20 miles offshore has been divvied up by a few lobstermen from Point Judith, but that's an exceptional case. It took several years and several thousand broken traps for the lobstermen and trawler captains to negotiate who got to fish where and when. And their arrangement is respected by outsiders mainly because one of the lobstermen has an especially fearsome reputation for protecting his turf.
Most stretches of open ocean are governed by state and federal governments, which is why the fish are in so much trouble. Tuna do not vote. Lobsters do not make campaign contributions. There may be future benefits from limiting this year's catch, but politicians don't want the fishing industry to suffer while they're up for re-election. Even when fish populations start to decline, officials are reluctant to impose strict limits. Instead, they have often tried to help struggling fishermen with subsidies, which merely encourage more overfishing. The Canadian and American governments devastated one of the world's most productive fisheries, the Georges Banks off the coast of New England, by helping to pay for bigger boats. Now, even as scientists urge limits on lobstering, state and federal governments continue to offer tax breaks and other incentives to the lobstermen at Point Judith. John Sorlien was docked at a wharf financed by the taxpayers of Rhode Island. "It's not a sane system," Sorlien said. "We work with the government to break fisheries, and then we ask the government to subsidize us when the fish disappear."
As he got ready to take his traps to sea, he was listening to a plan for saving the fisheries. Sorlien, the president of the Rhode Island Lobstermen's Association, was being lobbied by one of his members, Richard Allen. It was gentle lobbying -- New England lobstermen have not lost their classic laconic style -- but there was no mistaking Allen's dedication to his cause. At 54, he has been lobstering for nearly 30 years and preaching reform for a decade. He expounded as Sorlien hosed the deck of the stinking juice from the lobster bait. "Dick is the messiah," Sorlien said with a smile. "His ideas have gotten him in a lot of trouble. Most of the guys don't agree with him. For a while, I didn't want to accept his ideas. But now I'm starting to think he's found the way."
Allen first found the way in the academic literature of fishery management, and then he saw it in operation. He journeyed to a port in Australia and returned with stories of a place with thriving lobsters, plenty of fat tuna, lots of prosperous fishermen -- and no Soprano strong-arm tactics. It sounded like the maritime version of the Happy Hunting Grounds.
On the way into Port Lincoln, a little fishing town on a remote peninsula of Australia's southern coast, you pass an elaborate 20-foot-high black gate adorned with a gold crown. Below the crown is a sign in gold script: "Mansion de Braslov." The mansion is a red brick pile perched on the hillside, with a pink balustrade overlooking the water and a grand staircase attended by statues of two nymphs. It is the house that tuna built.
Locals call it the "Dynasty" house, as opposed to the "Dallas" house up the hill, which was built by another tuna oligarch who is said to have spent $50,000 just to get the plans for the mansion that appeared on the show. Nearby is a pink stucco house with 127,000 square feet. One fisherman with a stable of racehorses made news recently by spending $200,000 at an auction for an antique racing trophy. Another bought a mammoth yacht that had once belonged to Alan Bond, the financier.
Fishing has been very good to Port Lincoln. The fishermen have gleaming $600,000 boats in a pristine private marina flanked by new white stucco town houses. Compared with the decaying public wharfs in Point Judith, Port Lincoln feels like Palm Beach. The town's 13,000 inhabitants are said to include the highest number of millionaires per capita in the southern hemisphere. That, at least, is a factoid you keep hearing there. No one seems to know exactly where it comes from (there is no Southern Hemisphere Millionaire Census Bureau), but as the locals say, "You wouldn't be far wrong."
These millionaires are generally not the sort profiled by Robin Leach. Except for a half-dozen or so in mansions, they live in nice ranch houses. They are men like Daryl Spencer, who dropped out of school at 15 to work as a house painter. One morning, a friend asked him to fill in as a deckhand on a lobster boat. He kept working on the boats for four years and saved up $10,000 for the down payment on a house.
"I told my captain I needed a day off to go look at houses," Spencer recalled, "and he told me I should buy a boat instead. I said I couldn't afford a boat. He said: 'How about half a boat? I'll be your partner.' I wasn't sure -- in those days lobstering wasn't a sought-after job. But my wife and I decided to hold off on the house."
Today, they have a house on a hilltop with a sweeping view of the harbor. They also own a thoroughbred racehorse. Lobstering turned out to be an excellent job thanks to a system of quotas that was pioneered in Australia and New Zealand. It is basically a version of the New England harbor gangs, run by the lobstermen under government supervision. The government started it in the 1960's by setting a limit on the total number of traps used by the fleet in Port Lincoln. Licenses for those traps were assigned to the working fishermen, and from then on, any newcomer who wanted to set a trap in those waters had to buy a license from someone already in the business. It's like New York's taxicab system, which has a fixed number of taxi licenses or "medallions": a newcomer who wants to own a cab must buy a medallion from someone who is retiring.
When Spencer got his own boat in 1984, he bought his first trap licenses for $2,000 apiece in Australian dollars. Nowadays, they would sell for $35,000, which means that Spencer's are worth a total of $2.1 million, or about $1.2 million in American dollars. He has done well by doing good: his licenses have become more valuable because the lobstermen are conservationists. They pay for scientists to monitor the fishery, and they have imposed strict harvesting limits that allow the lobsters to grow into sizable adults. The Australians are not any more altruistic than the Rhode Islanders -- they too have mortgages to pay -- and in the old days they used to howl when anyone suggested reducing their catch. But they began taking the long view as soon as they saw the rising price of their licenses for their lobster pots, as they call the traps. Like any property owner, they began thinking about resale value. "Why hurt the fishery?" Spencer said. "It's my retirement fund. No one's going to pay me $35,000 a pot if there are no lobsters left. If I rape and pillage the fishery now, in 10 years my licenses won't be worth anything."
Besides building up nest eggs, Port Lincoln's lobstermen have made their own jobs easier. In the old free-for-all days, lobstermen used to work every day of the seven-month season, including Christmas and Easter. "I once spent 10 days at sea with a dislocated hip," Spencer recalled. "I wasn't about to lose two days' income coming back to the doctor when my boat wasn't full." Now, he would go to the doctor and use up a couple of the off-days that each lobsterman is required to take during the season. While Rhode Island lobstermen are sometimes on the water 240 days per year, the Australians are not allowed to work more than 187 days of their 211-day season. And their days are a lot easier on the back, as a young lobsterman, Hubert Hurrell, demonstrated one March morning in his appropriately named boat, Fine Time.
Hurrell and I left the dock at 7:30 a.m. and sped out to his traps in barely an hour, cruising at 22 knots in his 60-foot boat. It was faster than Sorlien's and had twice as much room on deck and below. The wheelhouse and staterooms had the space and amenities you expect to find on yachts, not lobster boats. There was a television and VCR, a video-game player and a wraparound console with six screens showing data from computers, instruments and satellites. "We could virtually shut the window and fish just by looking at these," Hurrell said, pointing to the color images of the ocean floor and the locations of his traps.
He shook his head and winced when he heard about the 800 traps tended by the typical lobsterman in Rhode Island. In Port Lincoln, the lobstermen have limited themselves to 60 traps each. Hurrell had a larger boat than Sorlien not because he needed the space but because he could afford the luxury. It took Hurrell and his deckhand just an hour to raise their 60 traps and to extract an assortment of lobsters, including some hefty long-lived ones. After a leisurely lunch, they dropped the traps back into the water and were back on shore by 3. It was not quite an eight-hour day, and Hurrell was satisfied with the financial results. "No worries, mate," he said, which was not a bad summary of the prevailing view among the scientists who study the lobsters.
"Fishing may be the only economic activity in which you can make more money by doing less work," said Rick McGarvey, a biologist who monitors the fishery for the South Australian government. "By fishing less, the fishermen leave more lobsters out there to produce more eggs, which will make it easier for them to catch lobsters in the future. It's a win-win for the fish and the fishermen. The lobsters are thriving and the fishermen are spending more time at home with their families."
The system also makes McGarvey's job easier because he is spared the controversies that American scientists endure when they try to protect a fishery. In New England, a proposed conservation measure typically inspires a decade of battling that leads, at best, to an ineffectual compromise. In South Australia, the lobstermen act quickly to prevent overfishing, sometimes imposing stricter limits than the ones suggested by scientists. "We don't have to fight with the lobstermen," McGarvey said. "The old philosophy of fishery scientists was, 'We're philosopher kings and the fishermen are children who don't know what's good for themselves or the fish, so we have to impose regulations.' Now we just tell them what our research shows about the fishery, and they do a great job of regulating themselves."
Other researchers have documented similar success stories around the world, including many from traditional societies that have used property rights to protect the environment. In the South Pacific, where coral reefs have been destroyed by fishermen using dynamite and cyanide, the best-preserved reefs are the ones controlled by local villagers and closed off to outsiders. Japanese fishing villages have long prevented overfishing in local waters by using versions of harbor gangs. Louisiana's privately leased oyster beds are much healthier than the public ones in Mississippi. These results have won over most academic experts on fisheries. Last year, Australian-style quotas were endorsed in a report to Congress by the National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences.
Property rights enable fishermen to avoid what ecologists call the tragedy of the commons: the destruction of a common resource because it is open to all. Just as the closely tended herds of cattle thrived on the same plains where the buffaloes perished, fish stand a better chance of surviving if they belong to someone instead of everyone.
The lobstermen of Port Lincoln have managed to work out only a primitive system of property rights -- they each own a percentage of the traps used, not a patch of the ocean -- and they are dealing with just one relatively immobile species in coastal waters. What about all the fish that migrate vast distances in the open ocean? How could you turn them into private property? It is not a simple proposition, but the lure of profits is inspiring innovation. Already, for instance, there are property owners in Port Lincoln tending herds of wild tuna.
It was feeding time for the tuna, and Brian Cuddeford was chugging out of the Port Lincoln harbor with eight tons of frozen herrings and anchovies stacked on the deck. The herrings were from England; the anchovies, from California. These tuna were accustomed to imported delicacies. "It's like room service for the fish, with the full white-glove treatment," Cuddeford said. "They're getting fed twice a day. In the wild, they were probably eating once a week."
The tuna fishermen of Port Lincoln used to go out to sea with empty decks and catch as many tuna as they wanted. They returned with a boatload of dead fish and dumped them into unrefrigerated trucks bound for a canning factory. The fishermen collected about $600 per ton. Today, the tuna ranchers make more than that for a single fish. "You're getting more dollar for your product, so you don't have to catch as many," Cuddeford said. "You don't have to be so greedy."
The ranchers still fish for their tuna in the wild, but with restrictions. Because tuna were decimated by the old open system, in the 1980's the government imposed limits on the annual catch. Now each fisherman owns what is called an individual transferable quota -- the right to catch a certain percentage of the yearly haul. These quotas, which can be bought or sold like stock shares, are not cheap, so fishermen have changed their strategy. No longer able to slaughter fish at will, they have looked for ways to make the most of each fish. The result has been the world's premier tuna ranches.
When the tuna are first caught in a net far out at sea, they are shepherded by the thousands into floating pens. The pens are slowly towed to Port Lincoln in an enormous tuna drive that lasts about two weeks. Once the pens are anchored in a bay near Port Lincoln, it is the ranch hands' job to produce a fish good enough to become sashimi in Tokyo. "It's just like a feeding lot to fatten up cattle," Cuddeford said as he pulled up one of the pens, which consisted of a closed net dangling more than 40 feet below the surface. The net was attached to what looked like a huge inner tube, a floating ring of rubber about 200 feet in circumference. Cuddeford tossed in the frozen blocks of herrings and anchovies. As the blocks began melting, you could see the flashes of blue fins below the surface as the tuna snapped up their meals.
"We're giving them herring to get the oil content up in the meat," Cuddeford explained. "A bit more oil changes the color. The Japanese are fussy. They eat with their eyes." The tuna would be fed for several months as the ranchers monitored their weight and watched the price of tuna on the Tokyo market. At a propitious time, divers would jump into the pen and guide the fish -- gently, because any bruise would mean a lower price -- on to a boat, which would whisk them to shore and on to an airplane for Tokyo. The 2,200 tuna in this pen were worth more than $2 million. At night, armed guards patrolled the waters for larcenous humans and hungry seals.
Such ranching isn't practical yet for most species of fish -- the tuna pens are economical only because bluefins are worth so much -- but marine scientists are studying other ways to homestead the oceans. They have identified genetic markers and various features on fish that could serve as the equivalent of cattle brands. They can tell, for instance, exactly where a salmon spawned by examining its scales for the unique chemical signature of the stream where it was born. They have experimented with new kinds of underwater pens that use sound waves to mark their borders. Surveillance satellites can monitor who is fishing and what they are catching anywhere on the planet, which should soon make it technologically feasible for a quota system to be enforced throughout the world.
But there are, of course, a few political problems in persuading hunter-gatherers to become homesteaders. The biggest is how to divide up the range. Do you allocate the quotas and licenses equally among all working fishermen or according to how many fish each has been catching? Do you calculate each one's catch by considering the past year or the past 10 years? Do locals get first dibs on fishing rights? During Australia's debate over these questions, lobstermen were suing the government and slugging each other in pubs. Two decades later, some of their wives still aren't speaking at the grocery store.
Those disputes were relatively simple compared with the ones in America, where the fishing industry is older and larger. In the mid-1990's, the federal government successfully introduced Australia-style quotas in a few fisheries. But then Alaska's politicians got worried that fishermen from Seattle would end up with most of the quotas in their waters, so in 1996 they persuaded Congress to declare a national moratorium on any new quotas. The moratorium could end soon, which gives hope to Richard Allen, the Rhode Island lobsterman who has been preaching the Port Lincoln gospel. But he has no illusions about the political difficulties of setting up a quota system. Over the past decade, he figures he has spent 5,000 hours serving on advisory commissions and meeting with lobstermen, politicians, bureaucrats and environmentalists.
"Most people start with the feeling that the ocean should be open to anyone who wants to fish," Allen said. "They complain that it's unfair to lock anyone out of the fishery. My answer is that with the current system, we already have fisheries that we're all locked out of. I can't go out and fish for halibut or swordfish -- there aren't any left. I would rather have a healthy fish stock and the option to buy access to it." Allen has been gradually winning converts on the wharfs in Point Judith, but it hasn't been easy.
"We're our own worst enemy," Sorlien said. "We're like the cattlemen in the range wars who shot at each other because they were claiming the right to the same property. Somewhere along the line, they figured out it made more sense to divide up the land and set up a system of property rights. That's the rational solution for us, but we can't bring ourselves to go through the pain of allocating each person a share. We're so far away from being South Australia."
Quotas have been gaining support among conservationists, notably at the Environmental Defense Fund, but they still face strong opposition from Greenpeace and other critics who fear that corporations will take over public waters. Once property rights are established, the same economic forces working against family farms could induce local fishermen to sell out to companies with big boats. While economists appreciate the increased efficiency of the bigger boats -- less labor, fuel and capital expended per fish -- others worry about the lost jobs and the impact on fishing towns. But it is possible to set up a quota system and still protect small-time operators, as the lobstermen in Port Lincoln did by putting a limit on the number of trap licenses that any one person can own.
As a result, there are still plenty of independent lobstermen in Port Lincoln; they just make more money doing easier work. Allen was
explaining this to Sorlien and his deckhand, James West, as they stacked lobster traps that morning in May. They looked incredulous when Allen described the huge new boats in Port Lincoln being used to haul just 60 traps.
"Sixty traps?" West said. "Man, I'd be happy if we could get by with 200." He listened approvingly to Allen's description of the Australian system, but he didn't like the part about newcomers having to buy their way into the fishery. West, who had been working as a deckhand for 11 years, was hoping soon to get his own boat. "I don't want the door shut on me," he said. "I've put a lot of time into this business. That's not fair."
Allen said that there would be special help for young people in West's position, but he conceded that there would be an expense. "You'd have to pay some money up front," he said. "But think of all the costs you'd avoid by using fewer traps. You'd be burning less fuel and using less bait. Think of what you'd be buying into -- a business with a future."
The deckhand was starting to come around. "Well, I like that idea," West said. "I don't want to buy a boat and hear that in 10 years it'll be worthless because you won't be able to make a dime lobstering."
The captain was still thinking about all the traps he wouldn't have to stack. "Imagine that -- just 60 traps," Sorlien said. He had been working for six hours, since 5:30 a.m., and the workday wasn't even half over. "You'd be done for the day now. You could be home counting your money, and you wouldn't have to worry about where the next lobster was coming from."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before tuna ranching, the Australians received about $600 a ton. Now, they get that for a single fish. (Don Brice for The New York Times); Point Judith, R.I., near right, is a world fishing capital in memory only. An ocean or two away, Port Lincoln, Australia, far right, is flourishing on the fat of the sea. (Left, Annabel Oosteweeghel for The New York Times. Right, Don Brice for The New York Times); In Australia, John Collinson, at left aboard the Shooting Star, is able to make more by doing less. Not so John Sorlien in Rhode Island, right. (Right, Annabel Oosteweeghel for The New York Times. Left, Don Brice for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GREAT PLAINS NATIONAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FISHERIES (90%); FISHES (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); CRUSTACEANS (89%); BURN INJURIES (78%); CHIROPRACTIC (77%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); BEACHES (77%); MAMMALS (75%); 

PERSON: JOHN SORLIEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



611 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2641 words

HEADLINE: Byways of the Blue Mountains

BYLINE: By DENISE FAINBERG; DENISE FAINBERG is a teacher and writer who lives in Bend, Ore.

 BODY:
IT'S a good thing the sidewalks are cement," observed the stranger as I passed him on Main Street.
I looked at him inquiringly. "Or they'd be rolled up!" he explained, guffawing. 
 He had a point. Apart from him, his wife and me, only a single family strolled down the main drag of Baker City, Ore., at six o'clock on a Sunday evening in July. Possibly all the inhabitants were at dinner. That didn't prevent me from admiring the dignified Victorian buildings -- banks, hotels, homes -- that had been erected in the raw Wild West, and were now flanked by broad leafy streets and backed by the ragged Blue Mountains. The town of 10,000 in this northeastern corner of Oregon is quiet now, even bucolic, but it wasn't always that way.
I was on a three-day exploratory jaunt through the Blue Mountains, a range so variously defined that even many Oregonians have never heard of it -- though you'd think the mountains would be hard to ignore, rising to more than 9,000 feet. Geologically, they are considered to spread from the snow-capped Wallowas near the Idaho border to the gentle Ochocos in central Oregon. But in popular parlance, they extend simply from the Washington line south to Baker City, where they are sometimes called the Elkhorns. This semantic confusion tends to keep them terra incognita outside the state, which is not all bad.
The first people besides the resident American Indian population to pass this way in any numbers were the Oregon Trail emigrants, who must have been relieved to find this watered valley after their desert crossing. Then gold was discovered in the 1860's. An enterprising settler built a toll road from the Oregon Trail to the Powder River running below the mountain range, and Baker City was born. It grew to serve the miners and the ranchers who followed -- and a rowdy bunch they must have been. The railroad came through in 1884, bringing in the merchants who built dignified monuments to prosperity on the frontier.
In one of these, the Geiser Grand Hotel, I found my supper. The Geiser was built in 1889. Sitting prominently on a corner in the center of town it featured the most modern innovations, including electricity and even an elevator. The spacious dining room retains an aura of relaxed elegance, and the menu concentrates on steaks and Northwestern fish. I had a yen for fish and chips, and theirs turned out to be pleasantly light, so I followed it with a piece of chocolate-hazelnut torte.
Replete, I returned to the Grant House Bed-and-Breakfast, which I'd selected at random upon arrival (it is currently closed while the owner, Diane Pearson, is on an extended trip to Russia). Grant House too dates from the 1880's. Ms. Pearson, a school librarian, has brought in some family heirlooms: a floral wool carpet and her childhood piano, which with the solid Mission-style furniture and myriad Russian nesting dolls, or matryoshki, create a calm, welcoming atmosphere. The three cozy guest rooms upstairs are named after local mines; Ms. Pearson had just returned from Siberia with the dolls and a Russian exchange student -- gratifying to me as a former teacher of Russian -- and we all had a jolly conversation over a pot of tea.
It was so comfortable I found it hard to leave, but the mountains were calling; and I did, after a breakfast of fresh fruit and homemade muffins. First I decided to see the mountains as the early emigrants would have, from the National Historic Oregon Trail Interpretive Center just east of town.
The rounded hills east of Baker City are barren and dry, enlivened only by black rock and sagebrush -- not too different from the previous several hundred miles the pioneers would already have endured. Some of the early diarists note their poor impression of fabled Oregon. The interpretive center, opened in 1992, sits on Flagstaff Hill just above a section of the old trail, whose ruts are visible in the sand.
Inside, the main exhibits lead the visitor along a path featuring scenes of life on the 2,000-mile trek. Actual diary entries and explanatory plaques detail the realities of the journey, and the hardships. Of these, disease and accidents were the worst: in some years, 10 percent of emigrants died on the trail.
Outside, the Blue Mountains rose impressively behind a wagon encampment, where a volunteer in pioneer costume offered me a biscuit freshly baked in campfire embers. The old trail was a pencil line through the sagebrush below.
The sun was already hot, but I decided to walk down along the four-mile interpretive path loop. Signs advise the visitor to wear a hat and carry water. Sage thrashers and families of grasshopper sparrows quarreled in the brush. On the valley floor a replica covered wagon stood beside a scrap of original trail. One could imagine thirsty emigrants trudging through, gazing at the evergreen-clad mountains and goading their oxen on, hoping to make camp along the cool and leafy Powder River. They would have passed here in late summer or early fall, when the desert was at its hottest and driest.
They would have proceeded northwest past the town of La Grande, aiming for the pass at Blue Mountain Crossing. I, having the luxury of a car and paved roads, would follow a somewhat different route.
Two of Oregon's Scenic Byways join to provide a driver's view -- a brief sketch, as it were -- of these mountains. The tour is about 145 miles long, and as it connects with I-84 at either end, it's possible to do a loop: explore the highlands, then return on the Interstate to visit the few small cities -- Pendleton, La Grande, Baker City -- strung on it like beads on a chain.
Starting off, I drove 12 miles north to Haines to catch the northern end of the Elkhorn Scenic Byway (Forest Service Road 73). It looped up through farm and meadow and forests of vanilla-scented ponderosa pine, and soon I was driving through thick, solemn stands of spruce and fir. The air, decidedly hot down on the plain, was aromatic and fresh. There was hardly another vehicle on the road.
About 18 miles on I came to Anthony Lake, wrapped in firs and pine at 7,100 feet. In winter a modest ski resort opens here to accommodate the cognoscenti familiar with the area's dry powder. Now, on the Fourth of July weekend, the campground was just opening for the season. A couple of dozen people lolled about the pocket-mirror alpine lake -- fishing, picnicking or gently floating in rubber rafts. Across the water rose the cone of Gunsight Mountain.
I observed snow melting into rivulets feeding the lake and decided it was not time for a swim. Indeed, some of the picnic tables were still neatly ensconced in snowbanks. But cloudless skies invited a walk on the graveled milelong circumference trail. Tiny wild violets bloomed beside the path. I passed quiet children and quieter fishermen (everyone here seemed to be serene); sat on a rock and watched trout jumping; and on completing the circle, stretched out lazily in the sun.
Driving again, along the switchbacky mountain road, I skirted the North Fork John Day Wilderness Area -- 170,000 acres of uninhabited forest, canyon and lake. Many trails thread through this primitive area, including the 23-mile North Fork John Day River Trail through the canyon, and the equally long Elkhorn Crest Trail. A few old miners' cabins are handy in case of inclement weather. I had to come back here, I decided, cut loose from the car and dive into the magnificent wilderness.
But my time now was limited. I joined the Blue Mountains Scenic Byway at Forest Service Road 53 and paused at the Bridge Creek Wildlife Area. The Forest Service acquired this tract of meadow and open woods as a winter feeding range for elk (the elk were using it anyway, annoying the ranchers). Up a short trail, a stand of pines overlooked hundreds of square miles of the John Day River drainage.
It was late in the afternoon. A bluish haze hung over the valley. The sun beat down, raising a sweet-oniony smell from the hundreds of mariposa lilies in bloom. I bent down to sniff one, and discovered a tiny azure butterfly inside, which was immediately joined by another. For half an hour I soaked in the sun and silence.
PRESENTLY it dawned on me that, not having brought a tent, I would have to find a place to sleep. I meandered on a few miles to the hamlet of Ukiah, population 245. A month earlier the town would have been ringed with meadows of blue camas flowers, whose roots were a traditional Indian staple.
Ukiah lies in a saucer-shaped depression between mountains and looks like the set for an episode of "Wyatt Earp." The short main street is flanked by low plank buildings -- a couple of general stores, a cafe, a Mexican restaurant -- and the Antlers Inn. The sides of the inn were literally covered with antlers of deer, elk, moose and even caribou, reminding me that here big game is plentiful and hunters even more so. Rough wooden signs offered "Rooms" and "Drop-In Showers, $5.00." It looked intriguing, but no one answered my knock.
Slowly I followed the rushing Grande Ronde River 35 miles down on Route 244 to the town of La Grande. On I-84 I turned northwest, following the approximate route of the emigrants' crossing amid a wagon train of semis. At the top of the pass, a herd of elk browsed along the highway -- their summer feeding grounds?
Suddenly, as if a curtain had dropped, the panorama of a blood-red sunset on the vast brown Columbia Plateau opened up -- a sobering view for weary pioneers. Soon I pulled into the city of Pendleton and checked into the clean but plain Vagabond Inn (a motel that has since changed hands and is now called the Economy Inn).
East of Pendleton on the Umatilla Indian Reservation is the new Tamastslikt Cultural Institute. The museum, right next to the Wildhorse Casino Resort, was opened in 1998 by the Cayuse, Walla Walla and Umatilla tribes. It's the newest of the five Oregon Trail Centers, and its focus is the culture of the Columbia Plateau tribes and the Oregon Trail's impact upon them.
Early the next morning I drove out to the reservation. The round wood-and-stone museum stands on a level plain fronting the foothills. Within, a temporary exhibition hall contained children's illustrations -- some on brown paper cut to the shape of a deer hide -- of Indian folk tales. In the main halls the coyote materializes as a silhouette on walls and in folk stories emanating from tape players, running like a spirit guide through the tribes' story.
Replicas of a winter lodge, an early missionary church and a trading fort anchor the narrative. The history winds through the introduction of the horse, the trappers and missionaries, then the huge influx of settlers and confinement to reservations. It was interesting to trace the changes in tools, dress and ornaments: from the traditional stone, bone, shell and hide, to glass beads obtained through trade with the Spanish and English, to woven cloth and metal goods.
Noteworthy, too, was how these Old World goods were adapted: beads, for instance, being worked in native and French-influenced patterns not only for personal adornment but also for decorating the horses of which the Northwest tribes were so passionately fond. Exhibits on the present and future of the tribes cover Indian salmon recovery projects, efforts for economic growth, and hopes for the future.
Two things made a strong impression on this particular visitor. First, learning that the horse, so dramatically involved with the economy, culture and mythology of the tribes, only reached the Columbia Plateau in the early 1700's. The famous Nez Perce horse-breeders noted in the journals of Lewis and Clark had had just a century to hone their skills.
Second, the process by which the original 800-square-mile Umatilla Reservation was reduced to the present 172,000 acres, or 269 square miles, as the settlers' hunger for farmland grew. First acreages were simply whittled away; then came "allotment," in which tracts were allotted to individual tribal members, and many ended up sold off to non-Indians.
In the cafe I bought a glass of huckleberry juice, then drove an hour back up to the mountains for a last look. A large grouse observed me with nonchalance on the quiet Scenic Byway. A detour due to repaving was a blessing: along a dirt road, a camas meadow was in late bloom, like a hyacinth-blue lake.
 
Where to stop along two Scenic Byways
 
Getting There
From Portland, take I-84 approximately 150 miles to Heppner Junction, where the 145-mile Blue Mountains Scenic Byway begins on State Highway 74. After 45 miles, at Heppner, the exceedingly well-marked Byway continues along Willow Creek Road and Forest Service Road 53 to Ukiah and the North Fork John Day campground. From there take the 106-mile Elkhorn Scenic Byway (Forest Service Road 73) east to Anthony Lake and Haines, or, on 73 and Route 7, south to Baker City.
Or, from Boise, take I-84 to Baker City, and follow the route in reverse.
Some of the high country roads are blocked until mid-June. Summer and early fall offer fine weather, though nights can be cool, even cold.
A free guide to the Oregon Scenic Byways is available from the Oregon Tourism Commission in Salem; (800) 547-7842; www.traveloregon
.com. One helpful Web site showing the routes is www.tripcheck.com/ general/scenicbyways.htm.
 
Accommodations
The Grant House Bed-and-Breakfast, where I stayed in Baker City, is currently closed. My room was $55.
The Geiser Grand Hotel, 1996 Main Street, Baker City, Ore. 97814, (888) 434-7374 or (541) 523-1889, has 30 rooms, a restaurant and saloon. Doubles are $89 to $199.
At the Economy Inn (now under new ownership, previously the Vagabond Inn), 201 Southwest Court Avenue, Pendleton, Ore. 97801, (541) 276-5252, singles are $37, doubles $50.
Campsites are available in the mountains, some free and some at $5 to $8. Contact the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, at (541) 426-5546, or the Umatilla National Forest, at (541) 278-3716.
 
Where to Eat
Geiser's Grand Hotel and Restaurant in Baker City is open for breakfast, lunch and dinner, serving hearty regional meals. Dinners run $15 to $25 without wine.
Como's Italian Eatery, 39 Southeast Court Avenue, Pendleton, (541) 278-9142, serves Italian dishes, including as homemade polenta; lunch and early dinner. Lunch specials, $5.50.
 
What to Do
Outdoor activities in pristine, uncrowded surroundings are the prime attraction in the Blue Mountains. Hiking trails abound; maps and information are available from the Wallowa-Whitman and Umatilla National Forests. Outfitters offer pack trips, rafting, fishing.
For skiing, call the Anthony Lakes Mountain Resort, (541) 856-3277. Further information is available through the Eastern Oregon Visitor Association Web site, www.eova.com (also a good source for descriptions of both byways) or the Baker County Visitor and Convention Bureau at (800) 523-1235.
History buffs may enjoy the ghostly mining towns of Granite and Sumpter on Forest Service Road 73 west of Baker City. Both had their heyday in the late 19th and early 20th centuries; Sumpter has a small narrow-gauge railroad and the nearby Sumpter Valley Railroad Park.
The National Historic Oregon Trail Interpretive Center, five miles east of Baker City on Route 86, (541) 523-1843, is open 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. from April 1 to Oct. 31, and 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. from Nov. 1 to March 31. Open daily except Christmas and New Year's. Admission, $5; children and seniors $3.50; or $10 per carload.
Tamastslikt Cultural Institute, (541) 966-9748, is seven miles east of Pendleton on I-84 (Exit 216), and is open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily except Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's. Admission is $6, $4 for seniors and students, ages 5 or younger are free. DENISE FAINBERG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Tamastslikt Cultural Institute, which opened in 1998. (Lisa Stone for The New York Times)(pg. 18); The Grande Ronde River, which meanders toward the town of La Grande on I-84. Victorian buildings in Baker City. Sunrise along the Blue Mountains Scenic Byway.; At Geiser Grand Hotel, which boasted an elevator in 1889, in Baker City. (Photographs by Glenn Oakley for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Map of Oregon highlights the Blue Mountains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GHG (ASX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) AND MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); 

CITY: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GRAND HOTEL GROUP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (95%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOUNTAINS (90%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (68%); NATIVE AMERICANS (50%); 

PERSON: DIANE PEARSON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



612 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
A Trickle, Not a Rush, In Tourism to Vietnam

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam

 BODY:
TWENTY-FIVE years after the end of the Vietnam War and a month after the United States completed an historic trade agreement with its former enemy, tour organizers in both countries hope that American travelers will finally start to make their way to Vietnam in large numbers.
The trade pact, which was signed on July 13, is not expected to have an immediate, direct impact on tourism. It is mainly intended to expand trade in goods between the two countries, and to open Vietnam's backward economy to American investment. 
 But among Vietnamese tourism officials, the hope is that the agreement will inspire new confidence in this country among Americans planning to travel to Asia. Although the country boasts 5,000 years of history, cities and countryside of exceptional beauty, unspoiled palm-fringed beaches and some of the best food in Asia, many Americans apparently still see Vietnam as a difficult, even hostile destination.
"They think Vietnam is like North Korea," said Doug Reese, the Washington-based representative for Vietnamtourism, a government agency. "People keep thinking about the war. They think Vietnam is dangerous, that they won't be welcome."
In fact, as most recent visitors to Vietnam will attest, the country is eager to welcome foreign travelers, Americans in particular, and the friendliness of the reception can be overwhelming to any American who remembers the torment of the war.
During the recent nationwide celebration to mark the 25th anniversary of the country's reunification -- and the defeat of the American-backed government of South Vietnam -- the Communist government offered little of the anti-American propaganda that was once was its daily fare.
Most of the current Vietnamese population was born after the war, and Vietnamese youngsters avidly enjoy American music and fashion.
Since she began organizing tours to Vietnam three years ago, Lesley Gonzalez of Asian Pacific Adventures in Northridge, Calif., said her clients have yet to report a bad experience. "All of their expectations," she said, "are surpassed: the hotels, the food, the hospitality of the people."
Vietnamese officials have been disappointed by the sluggish growth in tourism from the United States. Of the 64,400 visas reported issued to Americans last year by the Vietnamese Embassy in Washington, almost 46,100 of them went to Vietnamese-Americans, many going to see their families, not to spend money at tourist sites or in hotels or restaurants.
Over all, foreign tourism to Vietnam continues to set records. The country's tourism authority recorded almost 1.06 million visitors in the first six months of the year, a jump of 18 percent from the same period of 1999. China, France, Taiwan, Britain and Japan sent the largest numbers of tourists last year, in that order.
But the Vietnamese had hoped for -- and planned for -- more dramatic growth. A building boom in the early 1990's has resulted in a glut of hotel rooms, notably in Hanoi, the nation's capital, and Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon. According to government figures, the country's hotel occupancy rate last year was 43 percent.
One result, for visitors, is that Vietnam can be a bargain. Comfortable, newly renovated hotel rooms can be had for under $20 a night in major cities. And world-class luxury is a relative bargain as well.
The newly opened five-star Hilton Hanoi Opera -- not to be confused with the prison down the street that was known to jailed American pilots as the Hanoi Hilton -- offers rooms for $94 a night plus 15 percent tax, a rate that includes breakfast, evening cocktails, butler service and a full gym.
Across the street is the fabled Metropole Hotel, a lovingly restored French colonial gem that is now run by Sofitel, the French hotel chain. A five-course meal in its Vietnamese restaurant costs less than $20 with wine, and features a floor show of Vietnamese dance. Rooms begin at $100, plus tax.
The lag in United States tourism may be due less to memories of the war and more to a practical fact: There are no direct flights between the United States and Vietnam. Tourism officials in both countries say that an American tourist influx will begin in earnest only when the two countries establish direct air connections.
Currently Americans are usually required to connect elsewhere in Asia with flights of Vietnam Airlines or one of several Asian or European airlines that fly to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.
Although Vietnam Airlines has junked most of its old Russian fleet and replaced it with new Boeing and Airbus jets, tour operators say American travelers are wary of flying Vietnam's national carrier. "It's important for the U.S. carriers to go," Mr. Reese said. "The arrival of the American carriers is like the U.S. government seal of approval for travel to Vietnam."
United Airlines, Northwest and other American carriers have said they are eager to obtain landing rights in Vietnam. But negotiations on an air-rights agreement have repeatedly bogged down. There is optimism in Washington and Hanoi that the trade agreement signed last month has established an atmosphere of cooperation that will extend to the landing-rights talks, which are resuming this summer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hanoi Opera and, right, the Hilton Hanoi Opera hotel. (Hilton International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (93%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (93%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (57%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (84%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); CHILDREN (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



613 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Norwalk Is No Longer 'the Hole in the Doughnut'

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
A CITYWIDE surge of new construction and conversions of older buildings in Norwalk has given the city a vibrancy it has not experienced in decades. Long overshadowed by fashionable towns around it like Darien, New Canaan, Wilton and Westport, Norwalk chafed under the characterization of "hole in the doughnut."
But today, buoyed by a healthy economy and profiting as an alternative to Stamford's tight real estate market, its buildable land and reusable buildings are at last in development. "It's great what's happening here," said the city's seven-term mayor, Frank J. Esposito. "Now we are the doughnut, not the hole." 
 One major project is a new office building at Merritt 7, the glittering glass-walled complex of five buildings containing 1.2 million square feet of offices at the junction of Route 7 and the Merritt Parkway. Ground is to be broken next month for the 250,000-square-foot building at the south of the complex, with occupancy scheduled for 2002.
Merritt 7, with the Norwalk River winding through it, was regarded as Albert D. Phelps's folly when he began building it 21 years ago in what was then Norwalk's hinterland. To compensate tenants for the remote location, Mr. Phelps built a small railroad station behind the buildings where Metro-North agreed to make stops. He also showered his tenants with amenities that still include banking, laundry, dry-cleaning and jewelry repair services, limousine and car rentals, a barbershop, a travel agency, a newsstand and a clothing store.
Over the years Merritt 7 has maintained an occupancy rate of around 90 percent and become a magnet for satellite businesses. Facing it across Route 7 is a string of shops, restaurants and three hotels: a Homestead Guest Studios, a Four Points Sheraton and a Marriott Courtyard. Less than a mile up Route 7 a 170-room, $15 million Hilton Garden Inn is under construction and scheduled for a November opening, said Lowell Beebe-Center, general manager of the inn for its builders, New Castle Hotels of Shelton and Widewaters Group of DeWitt, New York, franchisees of the Hilton Hotels Corporation.
The three-story 120,000-square-foot hotel on five acres will focus on the corporate market generated by Merritt 7 and Merritt View, a fully occupied 250,000-square-foot office building just south of Merritt 7 that W&M Properties of Stamford bought and redeveloped in 1994.
At Merritt 7's rear, across Glover Avenue, Hewitt Associates, a global management consulting firm based in Lincolnshire, Ill., is putting up a 250,000-square-foot office building at an estimated cost of $20 million. When completed in September of next year it will house 500 Hewitt employees now occupying two buildings in Norwalk plus 300 newly hired workers.
MERRITT on the River, a new development, is taking shape at the southern end of Merritt 7: a 236,000-square-foot former Caldor headquarters has been gutted and is being rehabilitated as a state-of-the-art office building and next to it construction has begun on a new 229-unit luxury apartment building and garage topped with a swimming pool. One-and two-bedroom apartments will be available to corporate and individual tenants on its completion next spring. Carl R. Kuehner III, president of Building and Land Technologies in Wilton, and John P. Crosby, chairman of Albert G. Phelps Inc. (Merritt 7) are partners in the project.
According to Kathleen Williams, the leasing agent for Merritt on the River, the office building is already 90 percent leased. Peppers and Rogers, a marketing company relocating from Stamford, took 83,000 square feet, and Centerchem, a beauty products company also moving out of Stamford, took 8,500. Other tenants include State Farm Mutual, VSI Communications, HealthMarket Inc. and Adelphia Business Solutions.
Commerce Packaging is building a 46,000-square-foot headquarters on Wilson Avenue in Norwalk. The company provides highly specialized packaging of goods for military and industrial purposes, packaging the Hubble Telescope for Perkin-Elmer, for instance.
"Stamford was not very accepting of us when we wanted to expand there," said Mickey Alexander, the company president. "We've been in Stamford since 1954 and we wanted to build where we could combine our Stamford and Norwalk locations. Stamford would not do anything for us. In my opinion they don't want any manufacturing -- not even light manufacturing like ours."
By contrast, said Mr. Alexander, referring to the director of marketing and development for the Norwalk Redevelopment Agency, "Jim Banks could not have been more helpful in finding property for us."
The site Mr. Banks found is in one of the state's enterprise zones. In return for locating in economically stagnant neighborhoods the state offers businesses up to 80 percent in real estate and personal property tax abatements for five years, provided the company hires a specific number of local employees.
Priceline started in Norwalk, moved to the High Ridge Office Park in Stamford and has now moved back to Norwalk, leasing the 130,000-square-foot Oxford Health Plans building on Route 1 from Oxford, which has consolidated at its headquarters in Trumbull.
ACCORDING to Jeffrey Dunne, a senior vice-president at CB Commercial in Stamford, the cost of building in Norwalk is somewhat lower than in Stamford and continues to be an attraction. "Typically you have the high cost of 100 percent structured rather than surface parking in Stamford," he said, "and high-rise construction is more expensive than low-rise by 15 to 20 percent." He noted that annual office rents at Merritt 7 were in the low $30's per square foot, comparable to those in downtown Stamford, but rents elsewhere in Norwalk were in the high $20's.
Mr. Banks finds that retailers come to Norwalk without his help, enticed by a 15-mile radius of customers in neighboring upscale towns. "When I was a little boy this was a great shopping town," Mayor Esposito recalled. "That's coming back, but in the way of the times."
Instead of a Thom McAn's shoe store, a five-and-ten, dress shops and mom and pop stores, Norwalk's new retailers include Circuit City, Sports Authority, Super Stop & Shop, Home Depot, Frank's Garden Center, Barnes & Noble and Toys "R" Us. An ABC Carpet store will soon break ground and a Walmart will occupy a former Caldor store on Route 7, one of four such conversions in Connecticut. Sixteen Walmarts are up and running in the state.
"Route 1 is filling up fast," said Stanley M. Seligson, chairman of Seligson Properties, a local developer. He expects his own $30 million retail project on 13 acres at 777 Connecticut Avenue (Route 1) to be completed by Christmas. Costco is building a 135,000-square-foot store on the property and providing space for 660 cars in a two-level structure. On the same site Mr. Seligson's Olympia Construction Company is putting up a 20,000-square-foot building to be occupied by Pier 1, Kinko's and an AT&T wireless store, served by surface parking for 75 cars.
In the historic waterfront district of South Norwalk, Clay Fowler, a partner in Spinnaker, a Stamford development company, has begun selective demolition of excess parts of the Lock Building on Marshall and Water Streets opposite the Maritime Aquarium. Bought by Spinnaker in April for $3.3 million, the defunct lock factory, built in stages from the mid-1800's to the 1940's, has had numerous small businesses, artists and assorted transient tenants while controversy over its future swirled.
Disputes over turning it exclusively into artists' studios ended when the city designated Spinnaker as the redeveloper and settled on a plan. "It will be used primarily for offices in the open space loft-y style," Mr. Fowler said. "It will appeal to creative types focused on art, technology and media."
The building's 130,000 square feet will be reduced to 104,000 square feet, with interior spaces ranging from 2,000 square feet to more than 20,000, governed by existing interior brick walls. "Every office will have some exposed brick and original wood beams," Mr. Fowler said. The brick exterior will be washed and repointed, preserving a 60-foot-wide sign, reading Norwalk Lock Company, painted directly on the brick. Renamed the Lock Art and Technology Center, the $14 million project is expected to open early next year.
Norwalk's housing market has also had a renaissance. Prices rose more than 30 percent between June of 1998 and June of this year, bringing the cost of an average house from $305,399 to $397,018, according to Ellen Balazs, a broker at Coldwell Banker. And along Shorehaven Road near the Westport border a dozen waterfront homes in two subdivisions are being custom built on one-acre lots, priced in the $3 million to $4 million range. "There hasn't been anything like this available in Norwalk for decades," said Patsy Brescia, a broker at William Pitt Real Estate.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Computer-generated rendering shows new office building, in foreground, at Merritt 7 complex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HEW (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (81%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (82%); AON HEWITT (81%); NEW CASTLE HOTELS LLC (53%); NORWALK REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORWALK REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FRANCHISING (77%); MAYORS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); MISC HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (61%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



614 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 21; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO;
A New Neighborhood For the Black Sitcom

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN; Jeff Z. Klein is an editor at The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
SINCE the days of Norman Lear, the sitcom had offered two choices in its portrayal of black life in America: there were families thriving amid upper-middle-class plenty while ever-mindful of their roots, a la "Cosby," or families jovially striving to work their way out of an extremely mild form of urban poverty, a la "Good Times." Both came with a generous portion of sugar coating.
Then, in January 1999, came "The PJs," a fast-moving animated comedy set in the projects (the "PJs" of the title), with a dim-bulb building superintendent as its hero and a supporting cast that includes a Haitian voodoo priestess and a crackhead who lives in a cardboard box. The series opened with the super battling a rogue cockroach in an elderly woman's apartment, where huge stacks of cat food were cached. It has since moved on to other inner-city scenarios. In one, two boys audition for a rap mogul and are told: "No matter what happens, just remember that you're proud young black men. Now go in there and sing and dance for the Man." You're not watching "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" anymore. 
 "The PJs," which is moving to WB this fall after two seasons on Fox, is the brainchild of Eddie Murphy, who wanted to do a raw animated comedy about black inner-city life and sold the idea to Ron Howard's Imagine Television and the Fox network. Mr. Murphy does the voice of the irascible superintendent, Thurgood Stubbs, who looks after a building in the Hilton-Jacobs projects, a blighted urban-renewal development in an unnamed big city (though you might recognize the projects' name as a homage to Lawrence-Hilton Jacobs, the black actor who appeared in such 1970's TV landmarks as "Roots" and "Welcome Back, Kotter"). The first episode drew an impressive 22 million viewers, the second largest audience for a premiere in Fox history after "The Simpsons," and ratings remained high for Fox, an average of 11.4 million viewers, once "The PJs" settled into its Tuesday time slot.
Most of the program's rapid-fire jokes involve subjects rarely treated in sitcoms: staples of "The PJs" include shtick involving police brutality, random crime, race war, the failed promise of Lyndon Johnson's war on poverty and, without doubt the unlikeliest running gag in TV history, the unresponsiveness of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. In one early episode Thurgood's wife foils a robber, but Thurgood tries to take the credit, asking the assembled tenants of Hilton-Jacobs, "What are you always going to find behind every strong black man?" His neighbors' replies, shot back with the show's trademark speed, cover a gamut of takes on race: "A slower white athlete?" "A curious white girl?" "A Korean grocer yelling, 'Come back with that apple'?" "Don King taking 90 percent!"
Despite the good ratings, Fox yanked the show from its schedule twice and all but stopped promoting it in favor of "King of the Hill," "Futurama," "Family Guy" and other less inventive animated sitcoms with predominantly white characters. This summer, first-run episodes of the program have averaged 5.34 million viewers, 29 percent of them black.
"The PJs" achieved some notoriety soon after its debut in the form of censure from a few influential black critics. Spike Lee called "The PJs" "very demeaning."
"I kind of scratch my head why Eddie Murphy's doing this," Mr. Lee told television writers two weeks after the program's premiere, "because it shows no love for black people. I'm not saying we're above being made fun of and stuff like that, but it's really hateful, I think, toward black people, plain and simple."
The critic Stanley Crouch called it "a third-rate update of 'Amos 'n' Andy.' "
But as "The PJs" moves to Sunday nights on WB this fall, its first regular time slot since early 1999, the criticism has abated. "I try to make sure the jokes come from the right as well as from the left," said Larry Wilmore, who was an executive producer and one of the two head writers during the first two seasons. "In the pilot, we had one where you see a sign that says 'HUD: Keeping you in the projects since 1965.' It's one of my favorites because it really, really is the kind of joke you just don't see. It's a joke coming from the other direction: they really did keep you in the projects since 1965. Even Thurgood's that way. Just his name -- Thurgood Orenthal Stubbs -- represents the highest and lowest points in African-American culture."
The sensibilities of Wilmore and of Steve Tompkins, the other head writer during the show's tenure at Fox, informed the show in its first two seasons. Mr. Tompkins came from "The Simpsons" and Wilmore had an extended stint at "In Living Color," and the social satire of "The PJs" can definitely be seen as a hybrid of those shows.
"We had a very diverse writing staff," Wilmore said of "The PJs." "We not only had black writers, we had an Orthodox Jew, two gay people, two people who had had transplants" -- which may account for the many gags involving the high incidence of cancer, obesity and heart disease in the inner city -- "we had women; anyone you can think of was writing for the show. The important thing in hiring writers is not whether they're black or white, but rather what kind of life experience they bring. I'm black myself, but it's not like a lot of shows, where they think only a black writer can write this kind of thing."
ANOTHER way in which "The PJs" stands out is its remarkable look, a stop-motion form of animation that Will Vinton Studios, the Portland, Ore., company that films the show and that created the technique, calls foamation. The characters are actually foam puppets, photographed 24 times for each second of film -- a ratio used in only a handful of feature films and never before in television -- enabling them to achieve a high degree of expressiveness. And the sets are extraordinarily realistic renditions of a rundown housing project in all its dreariness: run-down, cookie-cutter high-rises; shattered glass; graffiti-covered walls; trashcan fires in vacant lots.
Tom Turpin, president of Will Vinton Studios, said the animators had two goals in creating the world of the series: "One was to make the puppets really comical, so that everything visually says it's a joke. And the other was to make the world seem very real and gritty, with interesting real-life textures."
The technical effort alone -- "The PJs" won an Emmy for art direction in 1999 -- is impressive. "It's far and away the biggest show in the history of stop-motion animation in terms of the number of animators working on it," Mr. Turpin said. "We counted up the amount of output we had done for the 35 episodes we'd shot for Fox, and it came to the equivalent of eight feature films."
For all its visual and sonic appeal -- the theme song is written and performed by George Clinton -- the program's breakneck speed comes from its cast. Each character's personality is sharply drawn according to type or stereotype (depending on your point of view), from Michael Paul Chan's Jimmy Ho (Michael Paul Chan), a Korean tenant and militant supporter of the black cause, to Mrs. Avery (Ja'net Dubois), a crochety, stroke-prone, gun-toting senior citizen. Ms. Dubois, the veteran character actress who appeared in "Good Times" and the blaxploitation spoof "I'm Gonna Git You Sucka," won a 1999 Emmy. While the cast records its performances together, Murphy's performance as Thurgood is usually supplied separately, from the sets of his films. The final result is seamless, the dialogue percolating with the speed of a 30's screwball comedy.
The new season on WB, which begins on Sept. 8 and Sept. 10, will include several episodes filmed for but not shown on Fox, with new episodes coming later. Mr. Wilmore and Mr. Tompkins will only consult on the new episodes. The executive producer of the program for WB, Warren Bell -- whose sitcom resume includes stints on "Ellen" and "Coach" -- promises that the program's sensibility will be retained, despite a large turnover of the writing staff. One change that has already been announced should make fans of the original wary: Smoky, the emaciated, wisdom-dispensing crack addict, will become a former crack addict, though Mr. Bell is quick to say that Smoky will remain as addled as before. Mr. Bell promises that "The PJs" will remain fundamentally the same.
"The show works," Mr. Bell said. "I can honestly say that you won't see any differences between the way I'm doing the show from the way Larry and Steve did it. We're still going for big, interesting stories that are rooted in a projects consciousness."
WB is making "The PJs" the centerpiece of its Sunday night lineup, and the show's renewed high profile could lead to renewed criticism. "I don't think about, 'Is this the kind of joke that will raise protests?' " Mr. Bell said. "I think about whether it's funny. We have a pretty solid contingent of minority writers on the show, and then of course we have the cast, so we're pretty well policed in terms of not crossing an actual line of offensiveness."
If Mr. Bell is able to keep it funny, "The PJs" should thrive after switching networks. If it doesn't, well, as Thurgood once said -- while losing consciousness after being gassed by HUD security -- "And then, like a public school, everything turned black."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thurgood Stubbs, with voice by Eddie Murphy, is the star of "The PJs." (Jim Lommasson/Disney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FOX NETWORK SYSTEMS INC (87%); IMAGINE TELEVISION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITIES (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ANIMATION (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (63%); 

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); EDDIE MURPHY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



615 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Public Space or Private, a Compulsion to Fill It

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
HORROR vacui -- fear of emptiness -- is the driving force in contemporary American taste. Along with the commercial interests that exploit this fear, it is the major factor now shaping attitudes toward public spaces, urban centers and even suburban sprawl.
Every public space must be packed with distractions. Food and flower vendors, musicians, banners, fountains, benches and plants must fill every mid-block plaza. They must be packed with young urban professionals, picturesquely enjoying wrap sandwiches and bottles of Evian water. Otherwise, it is a failure. Periodically, photographs of empty spaces will be published. Captions will say: these are failures. 
 Streets are too empty. They must have more billboards, public art or distinctive street furniture. Trees are too empty. They must be hung with Christmas lights or signs identifying their species. Train stations and airports are too empty. They must become so-called destination places or be, in professional parlance, packed with program -- specialty shops for chocolates, sunglasses, lingerie and watches, along with eating spots featuring Mexican, New England, Deli and Healthy cuisine.
Suburban lawns are too empty. Houses must be built on smaller lots. They must be filled up with the latest weed killers and lined with free-form planting beds that are themselves filled with bags of redwood chips. Iced tea is too empty. It must be lightly laced with mango juice or it cannot be enjoyed. Water is too empty. It must come flavored with orange, lime or wild cherry. This whole package is called The New Urbanism.
Perhaps the time has come to change the criteria for measuring success. Emptiness may not be a quality to be feared. Perhaps the Japanese are not the only people with the capacity to appreciate the quality of a void. After all, there is often little difference between a failed American public space and a Zen garden. Why shouldn't we, too, learn to recognize the value of hollowness?
Recently I have been revisiting Michelangelo Antonioni's classic movies of the early 1960's -- "L'Avventura," "La Notte," "L'Eclisse" and "Red Desert." As much portraits of places as they are essays in plot and character, they have lost none of their power to convey fragmented social relationships and the oblique urban environments in which human affairs unfold. Existential film noirss, these movies portray a kind of space that remains useful in the present moment of urban transformation: space noir. Emptiness is its essential quality.
I find "L'Eclisse" the most haunting. Monica Vitti and Alain Delon hold the screen by virtue of their physical beauty, but the entire movie seems like one big build-up to the final scene, in which the two actors pointedly fail to appear. They have made desultory plans to meet at "the usual place," a highway intersection on the outskirts of Rome. Vitti lives nearby, in a modern flat.
Throughout the movie, the director contrasts this antiseptic, postwar environment with the medieval streets of the historic center. But he betrays no sentimental attachment to the ancient city. Frank Lloyd Wright once condemned cities as places for "mutual assignations and assassinations." That is roughly what Antonioni shows us, too. Stock brokers slaughtering each other on the floor of the Borsa. Lovers seducing and rejecting one another all over town.
In town, these passions are softened by the cafes, newsstands, dim palazzo interiors, narrow streets, the weathered masonry of the buildings lining them and other furniture from the attic of Old World charm. In the modern outskirts, we still get the assignations and assassinations, but we get them pure, without the comforting distractations. Instead, the passive-aggression of phone calls and traffic transpires amid the abstract geometry of the postwar utopia.
When new, Antonioni's movies were received in fairly one-dimensional terms. They were thought to depict the malaise of the modern world. The fragmented cityscapes and industrial wastelands were even seen as causes of the sickness. In retrospect, the disaffection of Antonioni's characters looks like a human condition, not merely a modern one. There is no malaise, no need for a cure. There is only an emotional reality to be confronted. And with what elegance, what style, Antonioni's characters face it! Such exquisite doubt, such refined anxiety. What an artistic gesture of refusal the pair make by not showing up -- not venturing to disturb the noir composition of street lights and headlamps blinking on at dusk.
Antonioni's cinematography was once criticized for being too beautiful for his existential subject matter. Today, the beauty holds the meaning. From an urban point of view, his movies are premonitory fables. They anticipate the conversion of the rusting, postindustrial metropolis into the increasingly aestheticized city of art.
The desire to see these movies again, after nearly 40 years, was aroused by a group of projects that represent the most recent phase of this conversion. I refer to the art parks or culture districts now taking shape in Pittsburgh, downtown Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Newark, Charleston and other cities nationwide. In New York, two such projects are under way. In Brooklyn, an art zone is now being planned for the area surrounding the Brooklyn Academy of Music. In Manhattan, architects are now submitting bids for the redevelopment of the buildings and open spaces at Lincoln Center, the grandparent of all performing arts centers. These projects offer an opportunity to rethink the criteria by which the success of public spaces is to be judged.
Many enlightened people helped shape the standards currently in use. They include Jane Jacobs, William H. Whyte, Benjamin J. Thompson, Kevin Lynch, Edward Logue and James Rouse. Thompson is the undersung figure of the group, though he was the visionary who first conceived what would later be called the festival marketplace. Thompson was a young partner in the Architects Collaborative, a Cambridge, Mass., firm established by Walter Gropius. Later, he succeeded Gropius as dean of Harvard's Graduate School of Design. Despite his modernist pedigree, Thompson recognized that the modern vision of the city was flawed. In the era of suburban exodus, the urban core was not sufficiently alluring to attract people after work hours.
Like Rem Koolhaas decades later, Thompson recognized the potential of shopping to animate inert urban space. In the 1960's, Thompson created the first of a chain of retail establishments, called Design Research, that specialized in modern furniture and accessories for the home. He also owned a restaurant in Harvard Square. Faneuil Hall, the first of the Rouse-Thompson collaborations, opened in 1976. With it, the new retail-populist paradigm was launched.
When creative responses become formulaic, they can stifle creativity later on. Thompson's vision has suffered this fate. The festival marketplace remains a useful concept for orchestrating certain kinds of urban space. But its very success created new problems in turn. For one thing, it displaced urban diversity with a homogenized atmosphere of chain stores, coordinated street furniture, banners and signs. As a controlled, commercial environment, it eroded the distinction between the open urban environment and such suburban places as like the shopping mall, the theme park and the residential enclave. Consumerism, when working properly, should increase access to the public realm. When applied to public urban space, it raises invisible, exclusionary barriers.
That's one reason why modern architecture's failed public spaces are looking quite good these days. There's no pressure to spend $2 for a cookie. A stroll across Chase Manhattan Plaza, in lower Manhattan, offers a refreshing vacation from distractions. You're in the heart of a huge bank, but there are no commercial interruptions. The emptiness is ideal for sorting out inner and outer worlds. It's a democratic space, too. Democratic and popular are not, after all, synonyms. There are moments, in fact, when the two concepts are at odds. A city that offers the alternative of unpopular spaces is more accessible than a city that only tolerates popular success.
AND I wonder if failed space isn't more conducive to creativity. This may be a romantic notion, but it's also a classical idea. Think of Goethe pondering Roman ruins. Postindustrial cities that are seeking to remake themselves as cultural centers might also benefit from pondering the success of failure: the glamour of their own collapse.
The aura of failure: this is what I find appealing about the outdoor lighting system designed by Richard Gluckman and Robert Wilson for the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, a 16-block performing arts district now being realized in downtown Pittsburgh. Using theatrical scrims, natural light and artificial illumination, Gluckman and Wilson have woven a discontinuous maze through the districts back alleys. The lighting effects, a changing blend of blue, green and white, have the phosphorescence of decay.
The project serves a practical function. It's supposed to reassure culture consumers that muggers and junkies aren't lurking in the alleys. But instead of going merry and festive, the lighting has a consumptive pallor. Gluckman designed Pittsburgh's Andy Warhol Museum, and the noir spaces he designed with Wilson are strikingly Warholian. Particularly as presented serially in renderings (as it appears in a new monograph on Gluckman's work), the design evokes Warhol's Shadow paintings of the late 1970's. The lighting seems to shimmer between the pop extremes of obscurity and fame. The light will make your skin look as bad as Andy's.
Emptiness, obscurity, failure, bleakness, pallor -- such noir terms are not found in the vocabulary of civic success with which urban revitalization programs are typically promoted. But these terms should be permissible wherever culture comes up. Even an artist like Warhol, with all that diamond dust in his eyes, knew that too much glitter is unhealthy for art.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Renderings of the shifting patterns created by a lighting system designed for alleys in a historic section of Pittsburgh, above, and of the same area seen from above. (Photographs by Gluckman Mayner Architects)(pg. 27); Chase Manhattan Plaza in Manhattan: a respite from distractions. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); FILM (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); SUBURBS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (54%); 

PERSON: MICHELANGELO ANTONIONI (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



616 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
At More Companies, Benefits Without the Wait

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
WORKERS at the 15 retail stores of the Tile Shop do not receive many of the perks that many a new-economy employer may dish up to attract talent. They get no stock options, no nap rooms and certainly no on-site pet care.
But the company does offer a big lure for new hires: Instead of waiting months or years to be eligible to join the 401(k) retirement savings plan, workers at Tile Shop can join as soon as they walk in the door. 
 As job-hopping has become common in many industries, employers say that the traditional waiting periods for benefits have become an obstacle to recruiting. Qualified workers who already have benefits are loath to do without them, even temporarily, to take a new job.
So more employers are reducing or eliminating the probationary periods for savings plans, vacation time, profit sharing and sometimes even medical insurance coverage, benefits experts say. And companies that have not formally changed their waiting periods are increasingly willing to waive them if a potentially valuable new employee asks.
"In the current job market, this is a highly desirable thing to offer," said Dallas L. Salisbury, president and chief executive of the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington.
Hard statistics are scant, but many companies say they see anecdotal evidence that when benefits are available quickly, vacancies are filled faster and turnover among new employees is lower.
The short-wait or no-wait approach seems to spreading fastest for retirement savings plans. According to surveys by the Profit-Sharing/401(k) Council of America, a nonprofit organization that includes both sponsors and providers of plans, 40 percent of companies let new employees join 401(k) plans within their first three months in 1999, up from 32 percent the previous year. And 18 percent made them eligible for profit-sharing plans that quickly, up from 12 percent.
Robert A. Liberto, a vice president at Segal Advisors, the investment consulting unit of the Segal Company, a benefits consulting firm based in New York, estimated that over the last year, at least one-third of his company's clients have shortened or eliminated waiting periods for 401(k)'s.
"We're seeing clients moving away from one-year eligibility to either immediate eligibility or eligibility the month following the beginning of employment," he said. "Companies see it as a competitive issue. Allowing people to come into a plan immediately doesn't penalize them for coming from another job."
More than a tight labor market is at work. Federal rules governing 401(k) plans oblige employers to enroll as many middle- and low-paid workers as possible, to ensure that the plan is not deemed to unfairly favor highly paid workers, though recent rulings have eased some of the restrictions. Companies can now enroll workers automatically, and the Internet has made benefits administration easier for employers.
But recruiting is the primary motive. Pearson Inc., the American arm of Pearson P.L.C., the media conglomerate based in London, eliminated its three-month wait for medical benefits in January 1999. A year later, it trimmed the wait for 401(k) plan eligibility from as long as six months to no more than 30 days, depending on the date of hiring.
"We've gotten positive feedback that this has been an effective recruiting tool," said Randall Keller, senior vice president for human resources.
At the Tile Shop chain, based in Plymouth, Minn., executives were also concerned about retention; Minnesota, after all, has an unemployment rate of just 2.5 percent. Historically, turnover in the company's sales and manufacturing divisions ran to 80 percent a year, and personnel officers found themselves having to fill the same jobs every few months. Scrapping the 90-day wait to join the 401(k) has given new workers a greater stake in staying, said Dianna Kincade, the human resources director at the company.
Immediate eligibility for medical plans, however, is not yet as common, but it, too, is spreading. Kenneth R. Jacobsen, who leads the national health practice at Segal, said many more companies were shortening the wait for medical coverage from 90 days to 30. "We're seeing this trend in mid- to large-sized companies, and we're seeing it at a pace that is three to four times higher than a year or two ago," Mr. Jacobsen said.
Not all waiting periods appear headed for the out box. Employee stock ownership plans, for example, still tend to have one-year eligibility requirements, because they are explicitly intended to reward longevity, said Corey Rosen, director of the National Center for Employee Ownership in Oakland, Calif.
Experts caution that "immediate eligibility" can mean different things at different companies. Prospective employees should check the fine print to make sure that they understand a company's rules. "It might be the first day of earnings, or it might be the first day of the first month after you start work, or even the first day of the second month," said David Wray, president of the Profit Sharing/401(k) Council. The variations sometimes reflect differences in how quickly companies process a new employee's paperwork, he said. Knowing when coverage will start, of course, helps job changers decide whether to extend their former employers' medical coverage under the federal Cobra law to cover any gap.
Still, whether they kick in immediately or almost immediately, accelerated benefits are making a difference. Carl Randazzo, a regional manager at the Tile Shop, said turnover had dropped sharply at the five stores he manages since his company eliminated the waiting period for its 401(k) plan. The change, Mr. Randazzo added, is also making a big difference in hiring.
"If people are looking at two job offers, this benefit can cinch it so that they go with us," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carl Randazzo, left, of the Tile Shop says accelerated benefits reduce workforce turnover. He trained Jeff Hauge, a new employee. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEGAL CO (63%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMPLOYMENT (91%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (89%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (61%); 

PERSON: KENNETH R JACOBSEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



617 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK;
On the Rez, an Entrepreneur to Be Reckoned With

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
LONG one of the major summer attractions on Long Island, the Shinnecock Powwow is also the major revenue-producer for the Shinnecock tribe. This year's powwow, the 54th, is co-chaired by a young entrepreneur whose respect for tradition and flair for retailing has made him the tribe's largest employer and a new-generation leader.
To increase revenues this year, the Shinnecock Powwow committee has approved some new marketing methods, including a small television advertising campaign, a ticket package with a multiple-visit option, and a Friday start that expands the event to three days. The tweaking reflects the entrepreneurial savvy of Lance A. Gumbs, the tribe's leading entrepreneur. 
 If the weather is good, attendance will exceed 30,000, according to state police estimates, though several local business leaders outside the reservation estimate attendance typically exceeds that level several times over. Even using conservative estimates, the powwow reigns as one of the East End's major tourist draws, rivaling the 45,000 figure for attendance at the Hampton Classic equestrian event.
Mr. Gumbs, who has his own retail business, continues to spur the tribe's economic growth, combining modern merchandising and business strategies with traditional Native American values. Active in powwow planning for a number of years, Mr. Gumbs, who is in his mid-30's but won't give an exact age, is officially a powwow co-chairman this year for the first time.
"The success of powwow shows us that tourism is the direction we as a people can take," Mr. Gumbs said last week. "We're sitting here smack in the middle of one the top tourism areas of the United States. But for all the money and the visitors, there's a lack of things like major hotels, conference centers, and various tourism services. We're pursuing opportunities to do what other tribes across the country have done."
Does that mean casino gambling, embraced by numerous Native American tribes as a revenue generator? Mr. Gumbs was noncommittal. "We are in discussion with several prospective partners about development opportunities," he said. "No option, is ruled out."
A passionate advocate of Native American economic self-sufficiency, Mr. Gumbs recalled growing up on the 750-acre Shinnecock reservation, just west of Southampton village, painfully aware of economic inequities. One of his early role models was his first employer, Gus Johnson, an entrepreneurial Shinnecock whose carting business served residences and businesses in the surrounding community. Hauling trash in Southampton was a constant reminder of the greater wealth outside the reservation, Mr. Gumbs recalled, and a spur toward achieving prosperity himself.
Helping Mr. Johnson was hard work, Mr. Gumbs said, but preferable to the main alternative: caddying at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club. He said he didn't want to chase golf balls for white men.
A few years later the teenager was hired by Dan Rattiner, the publisher of Dan's Papers, as a general assistant. With Mr. Rattiner's encouragement, he enrolled at Adelphi University in Garden City. After completing his sophomore year, young Mr. Gumbs spent his summer vacation turning a roadside shack he had inherited from his father into a rudimentary storefront, stacked with cigarettes and sundries. A reservation-based store, he had learned, could sell tobacco products without charging sales tax.
Even with the exemption, the first few years were difficult, Mr. Gumbs recalled. Clearing $700 the first summer and $2,000 the second made him reconsider a retailing future. The third year, he installed insulation so the store could run year round and began advertising in local newspapers. Business grew, and brought competition: a fellow Shinnecock set up a similar tax-free tobacco store in a nearby building.
Mr. Gumbs created a new ad that helped distinguish his store from the new competition, and also spruced up the store's image. Putting his undergraduate training in commercial art to good use, he designed a logo, a slogan -- "People of the Shore" -- and staff uniforms.
Mr. Gumbs has expanded far beyond tobacco. The Indian Outpost also stocks a wide array of merchandise ranging from compact discs of Native American music to packaged food products such as chili stew and fry bread mixes. Adjoining the original store, Mr. Gumbs has built a delicatessen and a wholesale bakery.
In the mid-1990's, he opened the Trading Post in Green Acres Shopping Center in Valley Stream, selling a similar inventory of Native American crafts, books, CD's and jewelry. That was followed by the Shinnecock Gallery, which offers more upmarket inventory, with much original artwork, on tony Jobs Lane in the Village of Southampton. He said he has 31 Shinnecocks on his payroll.
John Strong, a Southampton College professor emeritus who is an expert on Native American traditions, met Mr. Gumbs while researching his book on the Shinnecocks, "We're Still Here." He described Mr. Gumbs as "a very bright guy with sound business judgment" who has brought a new level of business sophistication to the powwow. His role as co-chairman of the powwow, with Fred Bess, reflects the tribe's increasing respect for his leadership skills, according to Professor Strong. (Members of the Shinnecock Tribal Council did not return calls seeking comment.)
Mr. Gumbs's brand of private enterprise represents a variation on traditional Native American economic activity that has some internal dissenters. "There are other schools of thought that say Native American businesses should be run by the tribe, rather than by individuals," said Professor Strong. "I think in the past Lance has been frustrated by that thinking."
Mr. Gumbs defended his brand of capitalism. "Individual stores provide employment for many tribal members and demonstrate to people on the reservation that building a business is a viable prospect," he said. "Starting a business isn't for everybody, but if it's your dream you should go forth with it."
Earlier this year, Mr. Gumbs brought Jacques Ditte and Jan Hanna onto the reservation to film footage for the first television commercials promoting the powwow.
"To succeed as a fundraiser, powwow has to bring in thousands of people onto the reservation, which means you've got to promote it in newspapers, radio and television," said Mr. Ditte, who co-owns Black Sheep Television, a multimedia production agency, in Westhampton Beach with Ms. Hanna. "The tribal elders realize that, but were concerned about us coming in with lighting and TV cameras. Lance opened the door for us, but had to do a lot of negotiating for the commercials to happen."
In recent years Mr. Gumbs has become known as one of the country's leading Native American entrepreneurs.
"I think Lance is to be congratulated for his success and the expansion of his business, involving members of his tribe and other Native Americans," said Deborah Champlain, a Narragansett who operates a Web site about Native American activities, newigwam.com. "You don't hear many success stories like his."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lance Gumbs in the Shinnecock Trading Post. His diversified businesses have made him the leading employer on the Shinnecock Reservation, with a payroll of 31. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SHINNECOCK HILLS GOLF CLUB (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINNECOCK HILLS GOLF CLUB (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); TOURISM (88%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GAMING (73%); CASINOS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); APPROVALS (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); GOLF (60%); 

PERSON: LANCE AGUMBS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



618 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: 32-Story Hotel Is Rising on Baltimore's Harborfront

BYLINE: By CHARLES BELFOURE

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
A 32-STORY hotel that will be the city's largest is nearing completion as part of a $500 million redevelopment of a gritty industrial area that links the original Inner Harbor project with two gentrified historic neighborhoods.
 Inner Harbor East, with three million square feet of space on 18 acres, is considered the linchpin in the redevelopment of the 32-block industrial area that connects the Inner Harbor with the residential neighborhoods of Fells Point and Canton. With several other pending projects, it will help create a continuous path of development along two miles of the harbor. 
 Developed by H&S Properties Development Corporation of Baltimore, Inner Harbor East will eventually be nine contiguous blocks of residential, retail, office and entertainment space. The current construction is actually the second phase of the development. It began in 1995 with the construction of the 130,000-square-foot headquarters for Sylvan Learning Systems and the Promenade, a 113-unit rental building, at a total cost of $33 million.
 When finished next February, the 750-room Baltimore Marriott Waterfront will be the first hotel to be built here in 15 years. Aside from providing guest rooms for business travelers and tourists, the $135 million concrete tower will provide critically needed space for convention visitors.
 The hotel has a separate entry and lobby for busloads of conventioneers. Two levels are specifically for convention activities, including column-free ballrooms of 20,000 and 17,000 square feet that can be divided into smaller meeting spaces. Rooms with hospitality suites for seminars surround the ballrooms, and there is a space designed as a command post for meeting planners. A large freight elevator can bring displays and equipment, including automobiles, directly from the street to the ballrooms for meetings.
 The new hotel has already had an effect on convention business, according to Michael S. Beatty, a vice president of H&S. "The Shriners convention is booked for 2005," he said. "That's 30,000 visitors."
 Regular guests will arrive under a porte-cochere about 20 yards from the edge of the harbor and enter a vaulted lobby. The penthouse level contains rooms of usual size as well as luxury suites with views for five miles in all directions.
 Next to the hotel tower is a 50,000-square-foot office-retail complex, with 600 parking spaces, being built for $20 million. A 210,000-square-foot office building, already fully leased, that shares a two-story retail base with an adjacent hotel is under construction on the block bounded by Fleet Street, Central Avenue, Exeter Street and Aliceanna Street four blocks away. The 207-room hotel will fly the Marriott Courtyard flag, and be intended for business travelers. The $22 million complex, to be completed in November, will have a Fresh Fields supermarket on the first floor and a 370-space parking garage above it.
BEGINNING in early 2001 and across from the Marriot Courtyard on Exeter Street, construction will start on a 90,000-square-foot entertainment complex that will include an 18-screen movie theater and 40,000 square feet of retail stores on the street level.
 A 450,000-square-foot office and retail building with 1,200 spaces of underground parking is due to begin early next year in the adjacent block. The residential part of the project along Lancaster Street will begin as well, with the construction of a 225-unit long-term-stay hotel and two luxury apartment buildings with 225 and 90 units. A 300,000-square-foot office building by the edge of the water is also being considered.
 H&S was not the original developer of the project. The first developer assembled the parcels in the 1980's, but got into financial difficulties and came close to foreclosure. When the bank was about to call its loan, city officials asked John Paterakis Sr., who owns H&S Bakeries, a major supplier to regional food stores, a few blocks to the east, to buy the loan. He did, expecting the city to acquire the property from him at the same price he paid for it.
 When it did not, Mr. Paterakis, with no development experience to speak of, reluctantly started the project himself. He brought in a co-developer to obtain approvals and create a master plan. In 1995, frustrated by delays, Mr. Paterakis became an active one, Mr. Beatty said, constructing the Sylvan building and the Promenade.
 For all its early reticence about development, H&S is now diving headlong into two more large projects directly south of Inner Harbor East. It has formed a joint venture with a major Baltimore developer, Streuver Brothers Eccles & Rouse, and is completing the acquisition of the vacant Allied Signal site from Honeywell Corporation. About $300 million is expected to be spent to turn the 27-acre parcel into a mixed-use development to be called Harbor Point, with 1.8 million square feet.
 Near the southeastern edge of the Allied Signal site is a six-acre parcel along Thames Street, on which Streuver Brothers Eccles & Rouse and H&S will build 141 residential units and 330,000 square feet of office space. That project will cost $90 million and be completed in 2003.
 Other pending projects, a few blocks away, include an 80,000-square-foot four-story building for Whitman Requardt & Associates, one of the oldest engineering firms in the city. The Living Classroom Foundation will build the nation's first museum dedicated to black seamen and shipbuilders a few blocks east of the Allied site.
 H&S Bakeries, which started in a row house in East Baltimore 60 years ago, owns several blocks and buildings east of the project, but has no plans to relocate or to redevelop that property.
 Inner Harbor East's tower was criticized as out of scale with the adjacent neighborhood of Little Italy, criticism that was rejected by its developers, who cited zoning that would have allowed them to build a taller structure. "We could have built a 430-foot hotel, but we kept it at 330 feet and reduced the bulk of the other buildings so they wouldn't overwhelm the streets," Mr. Beatty said.
 Critics still complain about the scale of the Inner Harbor East project, but accept its economic value for Baltimore's waterfront. "Our project will be a huge driver for people who want to live down here," Mr. Beatty said. "We've tried to create a 24-hour environment with a mix of residences, offices, retail and entertainment."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Baltimore Marriott Waterfront Hotel. Light building, above right, is Sylvan Learning. Next to it, and photo at right, is Marriott Courtyard. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Baltimore shows the area of the detail and the location of the Inner Harbor East

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LEARNING SYSTEMS SCIENCES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TOURISM (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); LOBBYING (58%); 

PERSON: JOHN PATERAKIS SR (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



619 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Online Links Help Find Contractors

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS will tell you that one hallmark of a hot economy is an increase in the amount of money homeowners are willing to spend on upgrading, repairing and maintaining their homes.
What they won't tell you is how to find a good contractor. 
 "Right now, we're booked almost a year in advance," said Jesse Taylor, president of Just Decks, a contractor in Toms River, N.J. "I get a lot of people asking me about putting in fences and swimming pools and things like that, but I tell them that's why we're named Just Decks. I couldn't handle the extra work anyway."
Indeed, any homeowner who has scoured the telephone book looking for a contractor has discovered that it is often now the contractor who gets to pick and choose customers rather than the other way around.
A number of Internet-based services, however, have been set up to help consumers find qualified and reliable contractors.
"We provide a free service to homeowners by matching them with prescreened contractors, architects and designers in their geographic area," said Sharon Land, a manager with ImproveNet, an online contractor referral service based in Redwood City, Calif.
Ms. Land said that the company has about 40,000 registered contractors who have passed a stringent prequalification procedure.
"We screen under four criteria," she said, explaining that before contractors will be accepted by ImproveNet they must have been in business under the same name for at least three years, must have a clean legal history (which means that the company cannot have been on the losing end of any lawsuits brought by clients or creditors) and a clean credit history, and must provide proof of insurance.
"About half the contractors who apply fail the screening process," Ms. Land said.
Nora DePalma, a spokeswoman for ImproveNet, said the company had registered contractors in every state who were experts in just about every home improvement specialty. But unlike most referral services -- which provide homeowners with lists of contractors based on geographical factors or the type of project contemplated -- ImproveNet provides the contractors with the names of homeowners.
"The way we work is the homeowner describes the project by filling out an online form," Ms. DePalma said, adding that a description of the work to be performed, along with a hoped-for start date and a range of what the customer can afford, is then passed along to contractors in the homeowner's general vicinity.
"The first four contractors who respond are given the name and telephone number of the customer," she said. "We tell customers that it will take about a week for contractors to respond, but in practice it usually takes just two or three days."
The service is free to homeowners, Ms. DePalma said, because the contractors pay ImproveNet a commission for every job they get through the company. "They pay us between 2 and 10 percent of the job, depending on the type of work they do," she said, adding that the maximum amount a contractor is required to pay ImproveNet for any individual job is $995.
In addition to simply matching up homeowners with contractors, ImproveNet also monitors the process to provide additional assistance and follow-up. "We assign a personal project adviser to monitor the relationship between the homeowner and the contractor," Ms. Land said, explaining that the adviser is available to answer questions the homeowner may have and to assess the results of the matchup when the work is done. The Internet address of ImproveNet is www.ImproveNet.com.
Another nationwide online contractor referral service is Handyman Online, a company based in Beaverton, Ore. "We just recently referred out our 100,000th home improvement project," said Bruce Stahl, director of marketing for the company.
Mr. Stahl said that Handyman Online (www.handymanonline.com) was formed in 1997 by two former contractors.
"We realized that there was a real consumer need for this type of service," Mr. Stahl said. "And the service works well for the contractors, too, because it's a more efficient way for them to find customers."
Mr. Stahl explained that the 8,000 or so contractors currently registered with Handyman Online had all been prescreened by the company.
"Before we send anyone out to a customer we check to make sure that the contractor has insurance and that he is licensed if licensing is required in the state where he's doing business," Mr. Stahl said. "We also require every contractor to provide three references and to sit down with us for a personal interview."
Like ImproveNet, Handyman Online is free to customers because contractors pay the company when they land jobs. "Our contractors pay us a fee of anywhere from $10 to several hundred dollars, depending on the size and type of the job," Mr. Stahl said, adding that his company also assigns a customer service representative to each homeowner who requests a contractor.
"We contact the customer to make sure that a contractor has called," he said. "And then we follow up on the job until the project is completed."
Other Internet sites that provide on-line contractor referrals include www.nari.org, the Web site of the National Association of the Remodeling Industry; www.ServiceMagic.com, a company that provides consumers who submit project descriptions with up to three qualified professionals, and www.NationalContractors.com, a company that specializes in providing preconstruction project planning experts for remodeling projects costing $25,000 or more.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: IMPROVENET HANDYMAN ONLINE (94%); HANDYMAN ONLINE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: BRUCE STAHL (81%); SHARON LAND (68%); NORA DEPALMA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



620 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Looking at Change From Both Sides Now

BYLINE: By FRED ANDREWS

 BODY:
CREATIVE ideas for new businesses should emerge from every level of a company, says Gary Hamel, author of "Leading the Revolution."
Professor Hamel works with companies on instilling a capacity for what he calls "radical innovation." He is also the co-author, with C. K. Prahalad, of a business classic, "Competing for the Future." 
 Following are excerpts from a recent interview.
 FRED ANDREWS
 
Q. Your earlier book was directed at the company. This one is directed at the individual. What happened?
 
A. The first book was really aimed for a rather senior audience, strategic planners and so on. This book is aimed at any individual anywhere who has a passion for creating something new.
Probably what has changed in my thinking is really two things. First, a realization that despite all the aphorisms to the contrary, change does not start at the top. As I began to look at how some really large companies had dramatically changed their identity and their sense of direction, more often than not it was not something that started at the top. It was started by people low down who lacked any kind of formal power.
And, second, there was a sense that many people in organizations had become cynical, frustrated, even angry, at the sense of not being in control. We've gotten an ever greater gap between rhetoric and reality inside large companies. We no longer call employees "employees." We call them "associates" and "members" and so on, and yet they're more expendable than ever.
So the goal was to see if we couldn't begin to turn back the estrangement and cynicism so aptly symbolized by Dilbert.
 
Q. Your book talks about Silicon Valley, but not about start-ups. Aren't they revolutionary?
 
A. I think we've drawn a false dichotomy between old economy and new economy, which is not very helpful. Every new-economy company is busily working to adopt the virtues of old-economy companies. They're all trying to learn how to build a global infrastructure, how to build a world-class brand, how to achieve operational excellence, how to build up scale and size. Those are all things companies have been doing for the last hundred years.
On the other hand, all those old-economy companies are being forced to learn to continually reinvent themselves, to exploit the imagination of every employee, to substitute markets for hierarchies, and so on. Where we're headed is a synthesis between the virtues of new-economy companies and old-economy companies.
 
Q. You say innovation is everyone's challenge. How so?
 
A. If you went back to the 1950's and asked somebody where does quality come from, they would have said either from the artisan or from the inspector. It either came from somebody with magical hands making luxury goods or from somebody at the end of a production line weeding out the bad products.
Dr. Deming W. Edwards Deming, an industrial consultant who theorized about quality control and emphasized teamwork and communication over competition and a few others in the mid-50's said it doesn't have to be this way. We can make quality everyone's job and improve quality enormously. It is hard to understand how radical that thought was.
I remember a meeting with Dr. Deming when he was presenting his ideas to the top management of one of America's big car companies. And the audience there literally thought he was nuts. They said: "Now tell us again, we're going to take people with eight years of formal education and teach them statistical process control? We're going to let employees stop a billion-dollar production line?" And of course now we take that for granted, but that would be radical at the time.
And today the challenge is not quality; the challenge is innovation. So we need to do for innovation what we did for quality.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Hamel says big change often starts low on the ladder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (76%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); 

PERSON: GARY HAMEL (60%); DEMING W EDWARDS DEMING (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



621 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 12; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Bennett Stepping Out With Studio And Dropping in for a Performance

BYLINE: By ROBBIE WOLIVER

 BODY:
TONY BENNETT certainly lives the good life. And he is about to share some of his sweet fortune with his former hometown of Englewood.
The dapper crooner and his youngest son, Daegal, known as Dae, are in the process of building a state-of-the-art production center on the site of Englewood's downtown railroad station. Bennett Studios will incorporate music recording, television and cable production, as well as provide Internet production and Webcasting. 
 "This will be a great cultural and economic asset to the community," said Mr. Bennett, in a phone conversation from Chicago, where he was performing. Currently enjoying his first sold-out world tour, he will appear at the PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel, with the jazz singer Diana Krall, on Wednesday.
Mr. Bennett, who recently turned 74, is the last of the great traditional pop singers. With the deaths of peers like Mel Torme and Frank Sinatra (whom Mr. Bennett called "my best friend"), the singer may be the only link left to America's most popular musical tradition. And he holds that iconography with grace.
Mr. Bennett lived in Englewood from 1957 to 1971, and Dae Bennett operates a successful recording studio there. His Hillside Studio is a small, one-room operation, but many top artists have recorded there, including Queen Latifah, George Benson and Dizzy Gillespie, another Englewood favorite son.
The younger Mr. Bennett , 44, lives in Tenafly with his wife, Anita, and two teenage sons, Austin and Jared, but his artistic home is Englewood.
He is pleased that his father encouraged him to proceed with the project.
"It is a lot more ambitious than something I'd usually take on, but everything fell into place here," Dae Bennett said. "We've had our eye on this great location for a while."
The Englewood depot has a long history. After serving for decades as the local train station, the building was leased out by the city through the Englewood Economic Development Corporation. The site has been the home to several restaurants, though none were profitable enough to remain. The Bennetts hope to retain the historic look of the slate-roofed Victorian brick building (with grand windows in the former waiting room).
"This was a beautiful building in the perfect location," said Dae Bennett, though recording sessions must pause when the occasional train passes. "We'll get 15 minutes notice."
The 6,500-square-foot studio, located at 1 Depot Square, off Van Brunt Street, otherwise known as Dizzy Gillespie Place, will also form a partnership with the nearby nonprofit John Harms Center, an old vaudeville theater that currently presents concerts ranging from rock to classical.
The city is expected to build a trench between the two buildings so that a fiber-optic cable would connect them, enabling live recordings and other high-tech productions. Sixty-four channels of audio and video data will be broadcast between the two locations. Danny Bennett, Dae Bennett's older brother and Tony Bennett's manager, runs the A&E cable series "Live by Request," in which viewers call in requests for songs. He will bring his experience in televising shows to the studio operation.
"The idea of recording classical performances and theater from there is making many people excited," Tony Bennett said. "A theater like that is the perfect acoustic setup for symphonies and orchestras."
A Bennett Studios offshoot is the Tony Bennett Center for Media Arts, a school offering internships and educational opportunities to local students from Dwight Morrow High School. Dae Bennett will teach students who will create hands-on projects at the studio.
Tony Bennett, who is also spearheading the Frank Sinatra School of Performing Arts in Astoria, Queens, said: "What makes this project so exciting to me is bringing kids into the studio and giving them an opportunity to learn about recording, to teach them about the music business. It opens up the world to them."
Bennett Studios will feature two large rooms, one specializing in mixing, the other, a 50-by-30 space, will specialize in recording. There will also be a computer editing room and an area for Internet and Web-based media. There will be receptacles for cameras to offer clients streaming potential.
Dae Bennett said an important design aspect was that the studios look homey. "For many artists this will be their home away from home," he said. "It has to be comfortable, and not look like a dentist's office." The Bennetts expect the center to open in February.
"Our interest is to bring the industry into Englewood," Tony Bennett said. "There are a lot of technical and musical people already there.
"It's perfect. It's close enough to the Apple, but there are no police sirens or ambulances. Celebrities will be utilizing the businesses downtown, going to restaurants, shopping. It will be like our own Rodeo Drive."
The studio will also pay homage to Tony Bennett's career. "It's equivalent to a presidential library, a reflection of his life's work," his youngest son said. "It will include his artwork, memorabilia and music.
"We're talking about a man who is incredibly gracious and classy. I want this to be a living legacy to him."
Tony Bennett, who has been singing professionally for 50 years, is humbled by the idea of the studio, but even more so about working with his sons. "When I think of my father who came to the United States with $35 in his pocket, I know how blessed I am.
"I get to sing and paint, my two favorite things. And I get to share all this joy with my family who I love. I never dreamed it could get this magnificent."
Mr. Bennett also has two daughters -- Joanna, an actress, and Antonia, who is currently attracting attention as a jazz singer.
The studio will also be a place for lectures, and eventually outside concerts. "Just give me a drum roll, and I'll come out and sing," warned Mr. Bennett, "and I look forward to bringing in many of my artist friends to record here."
Mayor Paul Fader of Englewood is optimistic about the project. "This is one of the greatest things to happen to the city," he said. "This will make Englewood the entertainment capital of Northern New Jersey.
"Tony Bennett has the pizazz, prestige, name recognition, talent, and ability to pull this thing off with class."
Mr. Bennett has always been regarded as a class act.
"I did get shaken when the Beatles came out," he recalled. "I didn't know what to do, if I should change my style or not. But I never changed, and I think that's what people like. I never try for fads. I just try to sound good and keep singing good songs that never sound dated. I won't compromise my music. My saying is, 'When you're hot, keep going.' "
And it is not just former bobby-soxers who go mad for Mr. Bennett; the MTV generation does as well.
"I am so pleased I've been embraced by the rock crowd," he said. "Some of those musicians have become great fast friends, like Sting and Elton John."
Mr. Bennett, who paints every day, is also an artist of some renown. "It is such a surprise when my paintings fly off the walls. What a feeling of confidence and encouragement." He was recently commissioned to design the official poster for the Kentucky Derby.
"A painting makes you fall in love with life," he said, as he prepared to take a four-hour preconcert break to paint at Lake Michigan. "When you paint nature, you say, 'What a miraculous world we live in.' It's the search for truth and beauty.
"Singing is more extroverted. You help people forget serious problems and make people feel good."
Backed by the Ralph Sharon Quartet in concert, Mr. Bennett sails through a repertory that covers several decades. His songbook is vast, from George Gershwin to Duke Ellington to "Steppin' Out," the MTV-driven song that made him a pop-culture icon. He also shares two duets with Ms. Krall.
An impeccable musician and remarkable showman, the high-styled Mr. Bennett has left his mark in music and art worlds.
 "He might have left his heart in San Francisco," said Mayor Fader, "but he will be leaving his legacy in Englewood."
 
TONY BENNETT AND DIANA KRALL
 
PNC Bank Arts Center, Exit 116, off the Garden State Parkway, Holmdel.
Wednesday at 8 p.m.
(201) 507-8900.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daegal Bennett, son of the singer Tony Bennett, standing inside the old Englewood train depot, which he and his father are converting to a production studio for music, television, cable and Internet production. At left is a drawing of the future studio by the elder Mr. Bennett. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 12); The old train depot in Englewood is being turned into a multimedia production studio by Tony Bennett and his son Daegal. At left, Tony Bennett, who once lived in Englewood, will perform in Holmdel. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC (90%); TRAINS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); POP & ROCK (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); THEATER (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESTAURANTS (62%); 

PERSON: TONY BENNETT (94%); FRANCIS ALBERT 'FRANK' SINATRA (56%); QUEEN LATIFAH (54%); JOHN BIRKS 'DIZZY' GILLESPIE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



622 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS: for BOB TASCA Sr.;
On the Front Lines of the Tire Recall

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY

 BODY:
BOB TASCA Sr. has kicked plenty of tires in his 73 years. He estimates that he, his sons and his grandson, who own a Lincoln-Mercury dealership in Massachusetts and a Ford dealership in Rhode Island, have sold 330,000 cars and trucks.
Mr. Tasca once told Henry Ford 2nd that he made "lousy cars." Since then, Mr. Tasca has made more than 600 assembly-line inspections, telling Ford Motor executives how to fix flaws. He chronicled his exploits in accountability in a book, "You Will Be Satisfied" (Harper Business, 1996). 
 Since Aug. 9, when Bridgestone/Firestone announced the recall of 6.5 million tires, two-thirds of which were sold new on Ford sport utility vehicles and trucks, customers have flooded Mr. Tasca's service bays, demanding replacements. This week, before leaving to inspect a Ford plant in Detroit, he talked about the recall. Here are excerpts from the conversation. JULIE FLAHERTY
 
Q. How well has Ford handled the recall?
 
A. There was too much hesitation. They kept it hush-hush and didn't bring it out in the open. At the time that they were aware that a problem could have existed, that's when it should have happened. Now we've got all this hullabaloo. When we changed tires in Saudi Arabia, we should have changed tires in Texas. They should have announced it that day. I would have preferred to see anybody with a Firestone tire have the option of changing, but I don't think it's going to happen. They aren't going to be able to produce enough tires.
 
Q. What do customers say?
 
A. They are fearful of putting their children in the car. When you saw the accidents on the TV and in the newspaper, it didn't look like the chance of surviving was going to be too good. People are saying, "I don't want to buy a Firestone tire; I don't want to drive a car with a Firestone tire." There are people just scared stiff of the name Firestone, which is unfortunate. I've always had good experience with Firestone. I'm driving an Explorer Sport Trac with Firestones.
Of the 200 vehicles we checked, we changed about 36 sets, or 144 tires. I had to change ones that didn't have the defective code, too. I had one elderly lady whose Firestone tires were not that code who said: "I am not going to drive the car. I'm going to park the car right here." So I took the Goodyear tires off another car and put them on hers.
 
Q. Is this the biggest crisis you have seen with Ford?
 
A. I've had callbacks my whole life. It is probably a scarier callback than most of them, but we've had callbacks where the car can catch fire because the fuel line was not routed properly, callbacks where a bolt was not tempered properly and the front end can fall off. But this will go down in the top 10 percent.
 
Q. How long do you expect the clamoring to last?
 
A. Today was one-fifth of yesterday. It's tapering off. It could take three or four weeks. It might take some time to convince people that if you've got a Firestone and it's not one of the bad ones, you're O.K. If you can get people to believe that, you're over the last hurdle.
It's costing me money, between $5,000 and $20,000, but I never worry about what it costs me to satisfy a customer. Obviously I don't want to go bankrupt. But I've been with Ford for 57 1/2 years. It's too late to get divorced now.
 
Q. Will the recall frighten people away from Explorers and sport utility vehicles?
 
A. I sold nine Explorers the day before yesterday -- that's the biggest Explorer day I've had all year. I changed the tires for Goodyears on two of them. But the people like S.U.V.'s. Sure, they're worried about safety, but we know how to make them safer, we know how to make them more economical, and if that's what the market wants, we'll do it. We're going to see a lot more S.U.V.'s, but they'll be a different type S.U.V.'s. We've got an Explorer, an Expedition and an Excursion -- I don't think we need them all. You'll see the biggest ones trimmed down in size.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Tasca Sr., car dealer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GT (SWX) (58%); GT (NASDAQ) (58%); GT (BRU) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (58%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (58%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (54%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (54%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); TIRES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); INSPECTIONS (76%); 

PERSON: HENRY FORD II (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



623 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Is It Back to School, Or to the Loan Officer?

BYLINE: By Julie Dunn

 BODY:
How much you think you will spend on back-to-school shopping may be far different from the reality, a new study suggests.
Consumers who set aside a few hundred dollars for each child may find themselves woefully short. The average family will spend $5,423 to prepare for the new school year, for students in all levels of school, from elementary to college, according to the national study, which asked 1,002 people about their back-to-school purchases. 
 "There are a lot of peripheral costs that don't get added in initially," said Steve Rhode, the president and co-founder of Myvesta.org, formerly Debt Counselors of America, a nonprofit financial organization in Rockville, Md., that was co-sponsor of the study with Capital One Financial in Falls Church, Va.
Some parents buy another car, or maybe airline tickets, to send a college student to school, while some buy jerseys and other equipment for their elementary-school children who are involved in sports activities. And some schools require tuition be paid up front, Mr. Rhode said.
The study estimated that on average, a family would spend $2,457 on tuition and fees, for example, $1,610 on transportation and $591 on electronics.
"Back-to-school spending comes at the worst possible time, after that summer vacation, but right before the holidays," Mr. Rhode said.
He suggested involving children in money discussions, to teach them about financial responsibility. "Let them understand that there are limits to money and hard decisions to be made," he said.
Myvesta also advises parents to keep track of this year's spending to help set next year's budget. And it urges consumers to pay more than the minimum amounts due on credit cards. If a shopper pays only the minimum on a bill of $5,423 with an interest rate of 17.99 percent, Myvesta.org calculates, it will take 48 years to pay off the debt, which ends up totaling $20,843.
"We live in a minimum-payment mentality," Mr. Rhode said. "We mortgage our future for instant gratification."
 Julie Dunn
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PARENTING (72%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: STEVE RHODE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



624 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Reclimbing the Real Estate Charts

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
HIS hair is thinner, though still tinted red, and his posture is slightly bent, but certainly not bowed. Harold Farb, the flamboyant Houston apartment developer who gained national attention for his excesses before he fell hard in the 1980's, is back.
Mr. Farb, 77, has spent the last 15 years selling office buildings and trimming his apartment portfolio by 90 percent, in order to pay off $455 million in debts from real estate deals that went bad when the price of oil hit the skids and took the Texas economy with it. He has also put behind him such costly indulgences as a supper club, where he headlined as a lounge singer, and a glossy magazine catering to Texas's rich and self-absorbed. 
 Now, Mr. Farb is putting the finishing touches on a $25 million, 372-unit apartment complex in the suburban Kingwood section of Houston -- his first project in a decade and a half. This time around, Mr. Farb said, he will keep his business on a firmer foundation.
Like many developers who lost their French-cuffed shirts when the Texas real estate market crashed in 1983, Mr. Farb has become more cautious. Gone are the days when he built 1,000-unit apartment buildings and office towers as if he were playing with Legos.
"I've learned I'm not invincible," said Mr. Farb, who before the real estate collapse made the Forbes 400 list of the wealthiest people in America, with an estimated net worth of more than $200 million. Yet, he added, "I'm not running scared, either."
A cinema buff who has financed five albums of himself singing show tunes, Mr. Farb has named his latest venture the Paramount, in honor of the studio that made many of the films he enjoyed watching as a boy in his father's two Houston movie theaters.
THE new apartment complex was built using the same builders, landscapers, finance officers, accountants and lawyers whom Mr. Farb used in his heyday. But now, he said, they are contract workers, not employees. Mr. Farb was also more selective about the location.
"Kingwood is zoned," he said, "so I know there isn't going to be a lot of junk going up around the property, like pawn shops and liquor stores," which would diminish its value.
Mike Inselmann, president of the American Metro/Study Corporation, a Houston company that compiles and analyzes housing data, said Mr. Farb is emblematic of most developers in the state.
"It took the Texas market getting sucked down the drain before we started seeing a more studied and restrained approach to building," Mr. Inselmann said.
Two years ago, at the slightest hint that the Houston market was going soft, new building permits started to tumble. They are projected to fall to 4,000 this year from 20,000 in 1998, Mr. Inselmann said. And the decline has come despite surging oil prices that have buoyed the local economy, and forecasts that 60,000 jobs, mostly unrelated to energy, would be created this year.
"Everyone would prefer to be safe than sorry," he said, adding that Mr. Farb's new development could cash in on local builders' overreaction.
Mr. Farb said he couldn't be happier about his timing or about his return to the apartment business. He is looking to develop more residential properties in Houston as well as in Atlanta. "Apartments are what I know," he said.
He is staying away from office buildings and ventures like the supper club and magazine that Mr. Farb said got him into "trouble with a capital T." (He is not as shy about marriage, despite his highly publicized divorce in 1983 from his second wife, the socialite Carolyn Farb, which cost him a reported $20 million, though he disputes that figure. He has married four times since then, including three separate ceremonies with his current wife, Diane Lokey.)
Outsiders agree that in focusing on apartments, he is playing to his strength. After all, Harold Farb apartments were once the hip places to live in Houston.
"If you were young and single and upwardly mobile in the 1970's, you lived in a Farb," said Liz Dantone, a project manager for the Friendswood Development Company, a former Exxon subsidiary that has built several residential communities around Houston. "He's still a master at branding."
Unlike apartments owned by anonymous real estate investment trusts, Mr. Farb's have always been identified with their owner, with his name and logo (showing him holding a rolled-up blueprint) plastered all over the place. Comment cards addressed "Dear Mr. Farb" are in every manager's office.
"Landlords have such a negative image," Mr. Farb said. "I've always let my tenants know who I am and how they can get in touch with me."
Often, Mr. Farb personally answers complaints written on those cards. He also visits his four remaining properties daily, making inspections, talking with maintenance men and striking up conversations with tenants.
"I've gone back to my roots of providing people with a nice place to live at an affordable price," Mr. Farb said. Even while charging cut rates -- his credo is "rent $10 below market" -- he pays extra for amenities like resort-quality pool furniture and high-end exercise equipment. "I want it to be a poor man's country club," he said.
THE pool at the Paramount will be graced with a 7-foot-high statue of Minerva, the Roman goddess of wisdom, that he salvaged from his defunct marble-and-mirrored supper club, the Carlyle.
"I paid $50,000 for that statue and now I have a place to put it," he said, pleased with his thrift. "My daddy told me to always eat hot dogs, even if you can afford steak," Mr. Farb said. That way, a reversal of fortune will not seem as severe.
"I still eat hot dogs," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harold Farb, an apartment developer in Houston, discussed construction details with Randy Blankenship, job superintendent for the Paramount -- Mr. Farb's first new project in 15 years. (Patty Wood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ZONING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (60%); 

PERSON: CAROLYN FARB (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



625 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Hypocritical Arms Sales

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While the United States tries to demonize Russia and China for arming questionable countries, it rarely thinks twice about its role as the world's top gunrunner (news article, Aug. 21). Are we more responsible in deciding who can buy weapons? Given that we arm or train more than 150 countries, the answer must be no.
Our arms export policy is that arms and services shall be provided for internal security, legitimate self-defense and United Nations operations. But this runs counter to our foreign policy, which condemns the oppressive practices of totalitarianism and violations of human rights. 
 If America wants the moral high ground, it must end this contradictory policy and put human rights and democracy before profits and narrowly defined economic and strategic interests.
 
MICHELLE CIARROCCA
New York, Aug. 21, 2000
 
The writer is a research associate at the World Policy Institute. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); 

PERSON: MICHELLE CIARROCCA NEW YORK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



626 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Somalis Take Close Look At Election In the U.S.

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: MOGADISHU, Somalia

 BODY:
Somalis who speak little English will still giggle and say: "Read my lips." Despite mixed feelings about Americans here, there is strong affection for the father -- as a man who tried to make peace in Somalia -- that has rubbed off on the son this American election year.
"We are following it," said Shuayb Abdi Karim, 30. "And we support Bush." Or "Bush Junior," as George W. Bush is sometimes called here. 
 Mr. Karim was standing in a spot that caused much pain for Somalis and Americans alike. An American Black Hawk helicopter was shot down there in October 1993, igniting an all-night battle in which 18 Americans and perhaps 500 Somalis died. Mr. Karim said his brother, who was 18, was killed by a stray bullet.
That battle marked the beginning of the end for America's military involvement in Somalia, and in all of Africa for that matter, under the Clinton administration. So the logic behind the fervor for George W. Bush here is that he might have a personal stake in reversing that, since his father sent American troops here in the first place.
"If the Republicans win, I think the Somali problem is over," said Abdi Sheikdon Negeye, 40, once one of Somalia's most popular radio personalities. "All Somalis believe that. We lost Somalia when the Democrats came in power."
Americans do not have good memories of Somalia (just as there are many Somalis who feel American soldiers went too far in trying to create peace here). And Mr. Bush has given no sign of any plan for re-engaging in one of the most troubled corners of the world if he wins the White House.
But that has not tamped down hope here. That hope is fueled partly by the memories of the money that flowed into Somalia during the United Nations operations here and softened the economic blow after the government of the dictator Muhammad Siad Barre -- and all central authority -- fell in 1991.
A vein of optimism is also rising to the surface in Somalia that there finally may be a return of government, from peace talks going on now in the neighboring country of Djibouti. Many Somalis say it would not take much money -- donated perhaps by the United States -- to give any new government an early dose of legitimacy.
Perhaps for those reasons, some Somalis are following American politics and this election very closely. Mr. Negeye, at a wedding in a well-guarded hotel in Mogadishu, was talking about how he views Republicans as far better on foreign policy than the Democrats. One Somali said he liked Mr. Bush because Gen. Colin Powell is also a Republican.
At one of Mogadishu's beautiful beaches, Abdulahi Ahmed Koronto, 42, said he sees Mr. Bush as having stolen Bill Clinton's old game plan, positioning the Republicans to the center.
"George Bush is a man who has taken policy from the Democrats," said Mr. Koronto, a programs officer for a foreign aid agency in better days who is now unemployed. "He looks very compassionate. His father was not compassionate like him. He's very flexible, no?"
And in a society where family counts above all, many Somalis say they feel they know the candidate from his father, starting from the familiar voice and face.
"He looks very much like his father," said Muhammad Hassan Guled, 56, a former port manager who was holding the wedding for his son. "And his father left him a big reputation. Now the world is expecting much from him."
Mr. Bush also has support from Somalia's most famous son, Hussein Aidid. His father, Gen. Muhammad Farah Aidid, was one of Mogadishu's most notorious warlords until his death in a street battle in 1996. The elder Mr. Aidid was, in fact, the man whom the American soldiers were trying to capture in October 1993, when the Black Hawk was downed.
The younger Mr. Aidid, 38, who lived for 17 years in the United States and fought as a United States Marine in the Persian Gulf war, returned to Somalia to take over his father's faction. He was a registered Republican in California -- who voted both for Bush and for Clinton in various races, he said -- and he had some advice for the younger Mr. Bush: "You can't be in his shoes. You have to have your own ideas."
The advice seemed heartfelt: Mr. Aidid has had much trouble of his own stepping out of the shadow of his father. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (89%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); SHOOTINGS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); BEACHES (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



627 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2688 words

HEADLINE: Clearing the Decks for a Trade Pact's Riches

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: VUNG TAU, Vietnam

 BODY:
TO explain why he is so excited about the new trade agreement with the United States, Pham Van Tuat clambered aboard the Xin Thu, his new 89-foot wooden fishing trawler, and gestured into its spacious holds. Lower American tariffs for Vietnamese seafood products in the United States, he explained, will mean more demand for tuna and squid. And that is where this $125,000 trawler comes in.
The Xin Thu, the largest of his nine boats, can travel 400 miles out to sea and bring back 200 tons of fish, Mr. Tuat said. To demonstrate how, he bundled his visitors down into the engine room. There, still bearing its maker's signature yellow paint, was something that makes many American executives here as excited as Mr. Tuat: a brand-new, $32,000, 480-horsepower Caterpillar engine.
"We'll be exporting to America soon," Mr. Tuat said triumphantly, hurrying his guests onto a skiff to beat the ebb tide back to shore. "I'm planning to build another boat like this one. But even bigger."
To a large extent, Mr. Tuat's plans are the fruits of seven years of toil by Anthony D. Salzman, an entrepreneur from New York. Mr. Salzman came to Hanoi from Japan in 1993, hoping to capitalize on that country's swelling investment in Vietnam. He wound up opening a dealership for Caterpillar, which was among the most vocal companies in urging the Clinton administration to lift the United States embargo that blocked trade for 19 years.
Mr. Salzman, 49, is now one of Vietnam's most prominent American residents, well known for his outspoken, unrelenting style. And he is just one of many American executives here who say a trade pact will unleash a tide of exports -- and lift his fortunes with it. After five years of talks, the United States and Vietnam signed the agreement on July 13, and it is expected to be ratified by Congress, though probably not this year.
Since President Clinton ended the embargo in 1994, the American commercial adventure in Vietnam has resembled its earlier military one, with optimism quickly bogged down in a quagmire of red tape, corruption and Communist recalcitrance. To skeptics, the new agreement is yet another capitulation: tariffs on Vietnamese goods would drop immediately, while Vietnamese tariffs and quotas on American products would fall only gradually, in some cases enduring as long as seven years.
But supporters here say the agreement represents a new, irrevocable commitment by Vietnam to open the country to global markets and to play by internationally accepted trade rules.
MOREOVER, as Vietnamese exports rise and foreign investment returns, executives like Mr. Salzman say, demand will also rise for American products, whether toothpaste or trucks and bulldozers.
"The impact is indirect," Mr. Salzman said. With rising export revenue, he predicted, "my electric business is going to grow, my marine-engine business is going to grow."
"And as everything else grows," he added, "the infrastructure business should grow, too."
Mr. Salzman foresees $1 billion in sales for his venture, V-Trac -- for Vietnam Tractor -- over the next 10 years if Vietnam carries through on its commitments. But he and other veterans of business here warn that change should not be expected overnight. With or without the trade accord, Vietnam is still a poor, Communist country, with an absence of legal, social and physical infrastructure that sent foreign investment inflows plummeting to about $1.5 billion a year in 1999 from roughly $3.3 billion in 1997.
At the same time, Vietnam is no longer a hostile, war-ravaged country. More than half the population is too young to have ever seen an American G.I. And Vietnam's other former adversaries, meanwhile, have moved back in. France was the top investor in the country last year, and Japan the top trading partner. The United States is still only Vietnam's seventh-largest foreign investor and trading partner.
"It can be a challenging market, but I think the potential is definitely here," said Michael R. Frisby, counselor for commercial affairs at the American Embassy in Hanoi and a Vietnam war veteran. "Companies should come and investigate this market, because with ratification of the treaty the potential in Vietnam will increase exponentially."
Vietnam is already rich in resources. It is the largest producer of black pepper and robusta coffee, which is used for instant blends. And it is the second-largest exporter of rice, after Thailand, and a key source of seafood, cashews and bauxite. Its workers earn high marks from foreign employers -- and not just for the low pay.
The country also has much potential as a consumer market. More than one-third of its 78 million people live in poverty, but some of its roughly 18 million urbanites are sitting on what bankers and economists estimate are billions of dollars in gold and other hidden savings, with perhaps $1 billion to $2 billion more coming in from relatives overseas every year. Many Vietnamese hoard their money to avoid income taxes, and because they do not trust banks.
Although American companies lack much market share here, their brands are easily recognized. When Coca-Cola returned in 1994, it found people still familiar with its logo. Offices in Vietnam at that time were still using old I.B.M. computers and keeping cool with rusting Carrier air-conditioners, all left behind when the United States pulled out nearly 20 years earlier.
THE first Caterpillar equipment arrived here before World War II, when Vietnam was still a French colony. More Cats, of course, came during the American military involvement.
Old Caterpillar tractors and bulldozers were still rumbling across the landscape in 1990, when Bruce St. John, then Caterpillar's representative in Bangkok, traveled to Vietnam to assess the prospects.
He learned that Vietnamese mechanics still knew how to service Caterpillar equipment. Given Vietnam's infrastructure needs, Mr. St. John, who served in the Army in Vietnam in 1970 and 1971, predicted a lucrative market for Caterpillar.
"It looked like a very attractive opportunity," said Mr. St. John, who now works at the same factory, in Mossville, Ill., where Mr. Tuat's engine was built.
In 1991, Mr. St. John testified before Congress about the embargo. Caterpillar's stance set off protests from groups that had been urging the United States to pressure Hanoi to find missing American soldiers.
Caterpillar executives argued that Vietnamese markets were falling to Japanese and European competitors and that more influence on the M.I.A. issue could be gained by trading with Vietnam. In 1993, Caterpillar opened its office in Hanoi.
Mr. Salzman took an unlikely road to Vietnam -- and to bulldozers. His father, Herbert, secured the family fortune in 1967 when he sold the company his own father founded, Standard Bag, to Boise Cascade. Herbert Salzman went on to serve four presidents in various positions at the State Department and started the agency that would become the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, which guarantees American investments in third-world countries.
The younger Mr. Salzman studied at Yale University and the Duke University law school. After stints at American Express and Lehman Brothers, he chose to explore his entrepreneurial roots, a decision that took him to Portugal and Spain. Then he tried Asia, starting in 1992 with Japan, where his wife was born.
When his effort to crack Japan's closed markets did not succeed, Mr. Salzman and his wife moved to Vietnam. "Yen were pouring in," he recalled. "It meant that Vietnam was going to be an important Asian economy."
Hanoi was a long way from the Salzmans' apartment on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. When he and his wife called an exterminator to rid their new home of rats, Mr. Salzman said, a man showed up with a snake in a bag.
Efforts by the Communist government to keep tabs on the new capitalist arrivals were equally rustic. Mr. Salzman learned that his phones were tapped when he heard officials breathing over the line. Fax machines were illegal -- they were too hard to decipher.
Still, Mr. Salzman said he never felt any animosity as a citizen of Vietnam's former enemy. He set up the first American Chamber of Commerce in Hanoi and began prospecting for business ideas that would capitalize on Vietnam's obvious need for new infrastructure.
Mr. Salzman had just abandoned hopes of investing in a cellular telephone operator when he met Caterpillar's Hanoi representative, James Ferrara. Caterpillar was already fielding offers from its big distributors in Hong Kong, Indonesia, France and Canada to expand to Vietnam, Mr. Salzman said.
Mr. Salzman prevailed over the other bidders, he said, by appealing to the company's traditional preference for family-owned dealerships. In mid-1994, he set up V-Trac. A Caterpillar spokesman, Jeffrey S. Hawkinson, said Mr. Ferrara was not available to confirm Mr. Salzman's account.
While many Vietnamese knew the Caterpillar name, Mr. Salzman needed to spread the word that Cat was back. In 1995, he advertised a contest offering a $1,000 prize for the oldest working Caterpillar equipment in the country. The winning entry was a 1939 generator serving on a tugboat. The overwhelmed winner carried off his prize in two shopping bags filled with Vietnamese currency.
SELLING new equipment, however, was still difficult. The same year, V-Trac lost a $7 million contract to supply bulldozers and other heavy equipment to one of Vietnam's cement companies. Mr. Salzman blamed the Jackson-Vanik law, a cold-war statute aimed at Communist countries not allowing free emigration. The law prohibited trade financing to such countries by the Export-Import Bank or by OPIC, the agency started by Mr. Salzman's father. The Vietnamese cement contract went instead to Komatsu of Japan.
In 1998, President Clinton waived the Jackson-Vanik restrictions against Vietnam, and last year V-Trac won $2.3 million in financing from OPIC, the first deal the agency had made in Vietnam since the war. V-Trac now employs 140 people in seven offices around the country.
But financing is still difficult to obtain from risk-averse government agencies, Mr. Salzman complained. The Ex-Im Bank, for one, started operations in Vietnam in December, but has yet to finance a deal.
 In fact, the trade accord may be a bigger boon to other companies from other countries as they invest in Vietnam. Textile companies from Taiwan, for example, poured millions of dollars into Vietnam on the prospect of exporting to the United States with reduced tariffs. Now, a Taiwan trade official said, they are counting the minutes until the agreement is ratified by Congress.
BUT what is good for Taiwan textile companies in Vietnam may also be good for Caterpillar. Just north of Vung Tau, the Hualon Corporation of Taiwan has a factory that makes cloth and polyester yarn. When the plant opened in 1997, there was no electricity, so Hualon paid $15 million for three Caterpillar generators. Now it is planning to build a second plant next door, more than doubling its power needs.
Power is now available from the local utility, but Hualon's generators remain cheaper -- and more reliable. Back in Vung Tau at the Technical Raw Material Trading & Supplying Company, Phan Doan Hung showed off a new, $400 million shoe factory left dormant for a day by a power failure; its 2,200 employees had to stay at home.
Mr. Hung and the companies in Europe, Korea and Taiwan that buy his shoes said the trade agreement would mean more business for his factory. "We'd like to export our product directly to America," he added. "That way we can earn a bigger profit."
To ensure that he has the power he needs to meet his contract deadlines, Mr. Hung is buying a $61,000 Caterpillar generator. "Please come soon," he said to a visiting V-Trac executive. "You see what it's like today. I worry, worry, worry."
Ford Vietnam, a joint venture between Ford Motor and a Vietnamese partner, also uses Caterpillar generators to power its $102 million factory near Hanoi. Business is slow: Ford makes only 100 of the 14,000 cars that the factory could produce each month. Company executives are optimistic that the trade agreement will change that.
"The agreement makes me feel even more confident because of the way it makes other businesses grow," said Deborah Aronson, general director of Ford Vietnam. "There's a significant retail population that is looking to demonstrate its success."
Chronic power failures, however, underscore Vietnam's limitations as a market and investment. Though the economy is regaining speed, unprofitable state-owned businesses drain government coffers, while banks, like so many elsewhere in Asia, are paralyzed by bad loans. Income tax rates are so high that it is sometimes cheaper for foreign companies to hire expatriates than to pay Vietnamese a competitive after-tax wage.
The agreement also leaves unresolved a litany of structural problems, executives say. Vietnam is only beginning to experiment with capital markets; it recently opened a stock market, but regulations still hobble businesses' ability to raise money. Vietnam is trying to overhaul these rules, but its bureaucracy is still Byzantine, its licensing rules unclear, and its foreclosure and bankruptcy laws inadequate. Courts are not independent; they answer to the Communist Party.
And some executives here do not share Mr. Salzman's faith that the trade pact will permeate the economy. Ronald R. Kiel, 3M's managing director in Vietnam, agrees that the accord is essential for Vietnam's future but says the country's goods are too poor and its infrastructure too decrepit. "I don't think you're going to see an explosion of industrial output because the country isn't geared up for it," Mr. Kiel said.
Others have more faith. "I think that Vietnam does have the potential for explosive economic growth, more so than most countries in Asia," said Wesley Grove, the chief representative of Chase Manhattan Bank in Ho Chi Minh City.
Gerard Letellier is another believer. Mr. Letellier is chief executive of Morning Star Cement, a $400 million joint venture of the Swiss cement giant Holderbank Financiere Glarus and Vietnam National Cement.
Booming demand for cement to build homes has sent Morning Star's production soaring from 400,000 tons in 1998 to one million tons last year. The trade agreement, Mr. Letellier predicted, "will open the Vietnamese market to U.S. investors, and this means new infrastucture."
"And this is good," he added, "for the cement business." (There is no need to guess whose equipment Morning Star uses to excavate the limestone to make that cement.)
CATERPILLAR'S dividend doesn't end at the quarry. Increased shipping traffic is also helping the Bien Dong Shipyard south of Ho Chi Minh City. Bien Dong's workers are putting finishing touches on a new $70,000 ferry; inside it is a $30,000 Caterpillar engine. "After this one's done, we're building another for the same purpose but with a 400-horsepower Caterpillar engine," said Phan Ngoc Chuc, Bien Dong's director.
Mr. Chuc is investing $200,000 and hiring 20 new workers to double the shipyard's production and to take advantage of what he thinks will be a boom in demand for another kind of vessel. Dwindling catches and environmental concerns have prompted Vietnam to push its fishing fleet farther out to sea, requiring larger, more powerful boats. Such big boats are more economical when they remain at sea, so Mr. Chuc foresees building other boats to transport their catch to shore.
Back in Vung Tau, Mr. Tuat remembers that when he was a boy in the 1950's, he had to go only about a mile out to catch all the fish he needed. Bigger boats won't be enough to compete in the American market now, he realizes. He and other fishermen will need to improve the quality of their product, he says, investing in more ice and freezers that will burn more fuel.
That may help Caterpillar sell bigger engines in Vienam. But it could help Mr. Tuat, too. One of his sons, it so happens, sells ice. The other sells fuel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Entrepreneurs see gold in a United States-Vietnam trade pact. Pham Van Tuat bought a Caterpillar engine to power a boat that in turn will bring in fish for export to America. (Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times)(pg. 1); American engines will go into boats being built at the Bien Dong Shipyard south of Ho Chi Minh City. (Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times); Anthony Salzman, a Caterpillar dealer, warns not to expect too much too soon from a Vietnam trade pact. (Photographs by Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times); Phan Doan Hung, anxious to sell his factory's shoes to America, is buying a Caterpillar generator. (Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "Vietnam: An Economic Overview"
With ratification likely for a trade agreement with the United States, Vietnam holds promise for plenty of commercial opportunities.
 
POPULATION: 78 million
AREA: 128,400 square miles (slightly larger than New Mexico)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT: 1998 $24.8 billion
G.D.P. BY SECTOR: 1998
Agriculture: 26.0%
Industry and construction: 32.7%
Services: 41.3%
 
(Sources: Population Reference Bureau; World Bank; International Monetary Fund; U.S. Department of Commerce)(pg. 12)
 
Map of Asia highlighting Vietnam. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); VIETNAM (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (57%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES (52%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); VIETNAM (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (57%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); FISHES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



628 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Measure of a Species

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Brazil's rain forests are being destroyed at twice the rate we thought (Editorial Observer, Aug. 21). Yet our appetite for larger cars, larger homes and a larger population continues. When will we realize that economic growth is not the measure of a successful species?
 
JOHN E. ISOM
Madison, Wis., Aug. 21, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (65%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (65%); WISCONSIN, USA (65%); MADISON, WI, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); 

PERSON: JOHN E ISOM MADISON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



629 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Tune In, Turn Out, Turn Off;
The Mystery of Nonvoters and Whether They Matter

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. KAGAY

 BODY:
WHAT if they gave an election and everyone came?
There would be profound surprise, for one thing. Turnout in the last three American presidential elections has hovered at around half of the nation's voting-age population, which has prompted a good deal of hand-wringing. 
 It's obvious that if everyone eligible voted this November, the number of ballots cast would roughly double. But would those 100 million or so additional votes change the outcome for the main contenders, George W. Bush and Al Gore?
The answer is: maybe yes, maybe no.
First, the maybe yes. If the race is close, then any usual nonvoters who turn out have the potential to decide the outcome. And races that go down to the wire typically generate higher turnout, because of the uncertainty, and heightened competition. After Labor Day, as each party's post-convention bounce in the polls levels off, voter surveys will give the first good indication of how close the 2000 election is likely to be.
Now, the maybe no. It may be that this year's likely nonvoters differ so much in how they are lining up behind the candidates that if they voted, a different candidate would be elected. But that would be in contrast to every election since 1988. A statistical analysis of those three elections by The New York Times suggests that if nonvoters had voted, only the margin of victory would have changed, not the victor.
The statistics say that if the "votes" of nonvoters had been counted, George Bush would have increased his margin of success over Michael Dukakis in 1988; there would have been no change in the margin of Bill Clinton's win in 1992, and his margin would have increased to a landslide in 1996.
The similarities of the preferences of voters and nonvoters suggest that in modern campaigns, with saturating news coverage and endless commercials driving home candidates' positions, voters and nonvoters may reach similar conclusions and take sides in roughly similar proportions.
Of course, assessing opinions is an inexact science. And there's much more data to go on for voters than for nonvoters.
The reactions and tentative conclusions being formed by likely voters are measured by many polls and also widely broadcast and published. The only way to know nonvoters' preferences is through the infrequent public opinion polls -- with their inherent degrees of error in sampling and measurement -- that bother to address them. And there are other gray areas. Nonvoters who become voters may be motivated by something that also changed their minds.
The New York Times/CBS News polls, conducted just before Election Day in each of the last three presidential races, were designed to determine whether usual voters and usual nonvoters agreed, disagreed slightly or disagreed strongly in their candidate preferences.
In 1988, voters preferred Mr. Bush by 8 percentage points. Nonvoters that year also preferred Mr. Bush over Mr. Dukakis, but by 16 percentage points. If everyone had turned out to vote, Mr. Bush's margin over Mr. Dukakis would have been somewhat larger than it was. Same winner, but bigger.
Voters and nonvoters each favored Bill Clinton over President Bush in 1992, and by the same margin, 6 percentage points. Had everyone voted that year, there would have been the same winner and the same victory margin. But Ross Perot would have gained an additional 2 percentage points over the 19 percent he actually received.
In 1996, by contrast, voters and nonvoters held preferences that differed strongly. Bill Clinton beat Bob Dole by 8 percentage points, but among nonvoters, Mr. Clinton was the overwhelming choice. If everyone had voted, it would have been a 24-point Clinton blowout. (In 1976, Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter ran a close race, but nonvoters were not polled.)
The seeming pattern in these three elections -- that with everyone voting the winner would have remained the same in each case, with an enlarged victory margin in two of the three cases -- provides ammunition for several arguments.
It shows that nonvoters are not invariably more pro-Democratic than voters, as stereotypes suggest. Nonvoters were more pro-Bush than voters in 1988, more pro-Clinton in 1996 and indistinguishable in their preferences in 1992.
Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania and author of "Everything You Think You Know About Politics . . . And Why You're Wrong" (Basic Books), said that the finding of few big differences in candidate preferences of voters and nonvoters conforms to "the standard finding of political scientists." But she said she was still surprised because "nonvoters, tending to have lower socio-economic status, might be expected to be more Democratic."
But does the voter/nonvoter pattern also suggest that it doesn't matter that nonvoters stay home?
Only if the sole purpose of voting is to elect someone. But citizens are urged to participate in politics not only to elect people, but also, perhaps even primarily, for their own good. Dennis F. Thompson, Alfred North Whitehead professor of political philosophy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, has argued in his book "The Democratic Citizen" (Cambridge University Press) that participation can help develop citizens' awareness, knowledge and self-realization.
Moreover, the three polls measured only how voters and nonvoters reacted to the candidates, issues, and appeals in the campaigns that were actually waged in those election years. They cannot show what public reactions might have been if the candidates, issues and messages had been different. And if everyone voted, those might become quite different.
Nonvoters tend to be younger, less well off in income and education, less partisan, less politically involved and more alienated from the system. If parties and candidates actually expected everyone to vote, they might find themselves having to revise their strategies, raising quite different issues.
Campaigns might revolve as much around health care for poor children, child care for working mothers, and job training and college tuition for working-class and lower-middle-class youths, as they do now around prescription drugs for the elderly and tax cuts for the affluent.
In 1996, turnout was 49 percent of the voting-age population, defined as United States residents 18 or older. In 1992 it was 55 percent. In 1988, despite earnest get-out-the-vote drives, it was 50 percent. But the category includes some people who are legally ineligible to vote, like noncitizens, felons and those who have not yet met local residency requirements, so actual turnout would have been a bit higher in each case.
One hundred percent turnout may always be a fantasy, practically speaking. But, if political participation brings civic awareness, then a higher voting rate may still be a desirable goal, even if it does not change the outcome of elections.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Frances Jetter)(pg. 1); (Illustration by Jane Sanders)(pg. 4)
 
Chart: "Campaign Laugh Track"
A running tally ranking the most joked-about politicians in late-night network TV monologues: Friday night, Aug. 18, through Thursday, Aug. 28.
 
Graph:
AL GORE: 22
Previous Week's Jokes: 20
Percent Change from previous week: up 10%
 
BILL CLINTON: 18
Previous Week's Jokes: 13
Percent Change from previous week: up 38%
 
TIPPER GORE: 11
Previous Week's Jokes: 0
Percent Change from previous week:
 
GEORGE W. BUSH: 8
Previous Week's Jokes: 5
Percent Change from previous week: up 60%
 
HILLARY CLINTON: 4
Previous Week's Jokes: 3
Percent Change from previous week: up 33%
 
JOE LIEBERMAN: 3
Previous Week's Jokes: 11
Percent Change from previous week: minus 54%
 
"HOT MONKET LOVE"
Did you see hot monkey love Gore out there the other night? A lot of analysts say that Al Gore's acceptance speech hit a home run, which I can understand. The way he kissed Tipper, he's half way to third base right there.
 
Shows monitored: Late Show With David Letterman (CBS; Monday and Friday shows only); Tonight with Jay Leno (NBC); Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher (ABC); Late Night With Conan O'Brien (NBC; reruns Monday through Thursday not tallied). (pg. 4)
(The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BASEBALL (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US LABOR DAY (73%); STATISTICS (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); CONAN O'BRIEN (59%); JAY LENO (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



630 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: It's Just A Game, Really

BYLINE: By Mary Catherine Bateson; Mary Catherine Bateson is a cultural anthropologist and the author, most recently, of "Full Circles, Overlapping Lives: Culture and Generation in Transition."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Should we conclude from the final verdict of "Survivor" that life is a game? Games are metaphors, in that they reframe familiar human events, make them formal, set them apart with beginnings and endings. Games attach some motivation to human activities, along with a certain amount of stage setting: the elegant pieces of a chess set, tennis whites. In the Western tradition, we take it for granted that the purpose of a game is to win.
The directors of "Survivor" designed their game to require the players to eject other members of their own group and to betray their allies. They surrounded the game with an elaborate and corny setting and a set of rules and rituals that seemed to be inspired by memories of some ill-understood Introduction to Anthropology course. The trappings of a popular image of the primitive were used not only for cosmetic purposes, but also to legitimize behavior that many people would find unacceptable in other contexts. 
 If, in the course of evolution, human beings really had practiced Hobbes's "war of all against all," our species would not have survived. Nor would we have survived if our families, tribes and communities had been based solely on calculated advantage.
Human groups that depended on Stone Age technologies also depended on mutual caring. More than any other species, Homo sapiens must learn cooperation. Even some sociobiologists who argue a direct application of the "survival of the fittest" acknowledge that fitness refers to reproductive success, which includes, for human beings, caring for the weak.
One of the distinctive characteristics of our species is the ability to think and communicate about conditions that are not real or not verifiable. We can lie. We can make believe. We can postulate hypothetical subatomic particles and remote planets, opening doorways of scientific exploration. We can believe in gods. We can play. But it pays to know what we are doing.
In "Survivor," the prize went to Rich, the player who was apparently clearest from the beginning that this was a game of strategy and alliances. The prize did not go to players who stood firmly on personal honor (Rudy) or emphasized relationships (Susan).
Several players spoke of what they had learned in the experience -- a kind of reward beyond money. Rich won by concentrating from the start on the game itself -- where Kelly, for example, waffled. But if Rich were to play the game of life only as he played the game of "Survivor," he would be likely to lose in a more fundamental way -- losing the joy that comes with relationships.
Games draw their metaphors from many sources: big business, power politics, exploration. Game theory tends to focus on the metaphor of competition. As in economic analysis, the theory gets easier if one assumes that human beings have very simple motivations, like always seeking to maximize profit. There is an old joke in which an economist is asked what he would do if he were marooned on a desert island with a case of canned tuna, and he answers, "assume a can opener." The million-dollar prize is the equivalent of the can opener -- something introduced from outside the situation that reduces complex human motivations to a single goal.
If the outcome of "Survivor" convinces people that there is something fundamentally, primally human about competition that legitimizes betrayal, it moves us one step further into being a society whose values are defined by the economists. But if it reminds us of the artificiality of such a society, it can help us avoid the kind of stage setting that forces such behavior. We might move on from the "Survivor" motto -- "Outwit, Outplay, Outlast" -- to "Outgrow."
The final episode included a test in which the three finalists competed to see who could stand longest on the ends of logs while keeping a hand on a fantasy "idol." This is no more than another piece of kitsch cooked up by the producers, but it makes a suggestive metaphor: Our simplifying assumption about human behavior is the assumption that profit is our god. The danger is that believing it might make it so. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); EVOLUTION THEORY (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



631 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: The World: Into Africa;
The U.S. Keeps Looking for a Few Good Men

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN

 BODY:
ON his first trip to Africa two years ago, President Clinton dreamed out loud that his journey would be remembered in a hundred years as "the beginning of a new African renaissance." The president singled out four African heads of state whose free-market savvy would help revive the world's poorest continent.
Since then, all four leaders -- in Uganda, Rwanda, Ethiopia and Eritrea -- have crippled their nations' economies by going to war. 
 "We Americans are so desperate for good news on the continent that it is almost irresistible when we find a good man in Africa," said Edward P. Brynn, the former American ambassador to Ghana who greeted Mr. Clinton in Accra on the first leg of his 1998 trip. "The only way we seem to be able to identify success in Africa is through personalization."
This weekend, on a return engagement in Africa, Mr. Clinton is again singing the praises of a good man in Africa. This time it's President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, a former general who was elected last year to lead Africa's most populous country. The Clinton administration has seized on Mr. Obasanjo, whose victory ended years of military dictatorship, as an anchor of democratic stability in restive West Africa.
Again, though, there are risks. Mr. Obasanjo presides over a country that is fractured north from south by Islamic extremism. Nigeria is the second-most corrupt nation on earth (after neighboring Cameroon), according to Transparency International, a nonprofit anti-corruption group based in Germany. The former general's record on human rights has already been stained by his order for soldiers to destroy a town in the oil-producing Niger delta. His top aides have been selling their influence.
Echoing the concern of many longtime Africa watchers, Mr. Brynn, a former No. 2 in the State Department's Africa bureau in the Clinton administration, says the United States must resist the temptation of "putting all our eggs in the personality basket."
Mr. Brynn and many others argue that the only way for Americans to help Africa in a meaningful way is to join with European allies in the slow and painfully complex job of rebuilding institutions that have been falling apart for decades. Most important are the civil service, courts, the police and the military.
After the collapse of colonialism in the 1960's and the spread of self-rule across most of Africa, early American efforts to aid newly independent states foundered when grants were badly monitored and often stolen by corrupt bureaucrats. In the past decade, the United States and other chastened donors have tended to steer clear of direct aid to governments. Instead, they funnel money through private and religious groups whose work in health care, basic education and small-business development can be monitored more closely.
Neither of these approaches, though, has helped cure a continentwide pathology that has turned many African governments into predators. Poorly paid policemen, soldiers and civil servants often use their authority to serve themselves, rather than the public. "We failed to keep a real hands-on posture with aid," said Mr. Brynn, who served as a diplomat on the continent for 17 years in six different countries. "We allowed a small, clever class that inherited power from the colonial masters to take us to the cleaners. It will take a whole lot of time and money to turn Africa around."
Except in Nigeria, South Africa and a handful of other countries, civil wars and corruption have swamped the African renaissance that Mr. Clinton envisioned two years ago. Much of the continent has resumed a long slide into poverty, war and disease -- a dismal trajectory that has excluded the region from the rapid free-market growth in much of the developing world. That painful pattern suggests that America's next president will be confronted by military and humanitarian crises in Africa that cannot be solved with foreign trips or inspiring speeches -- and quite possibly cannot be solved at all.
Out of the 27 major armed conflicts in the world last year, 11 were fought in Africa. Five of the world's 10 most corrupt countries are in Africa, according to Transparency International. A peace deal for Sierra Leone, which the United States helped broker in 1999, collapsed back into war this spring, with United Nations peacekeepers taken hostage. As in Rwanda, where Mr. Clinton apologized two years ago for America's failure to prevent genocide in 1994, the continuing mess in Sierra Leone reveals an absence of international commitment to peacekeeping in Africa.
THE AIDS pandemic has accelerated and is threatening to kill up to 25 percent of the population in some African countries. War in Congo has sucked in a half-dozen other African states and shows no signs of ending. A political and economic rot that African scholars call "failed-state syndrome" seems to be spreading from countries like Somalia and Sudan to what used to be models of stability -- Kenya, Ivory Coast and Zimbabwe.
"It is a very frightening picture that we face in Africa," said J. Stephen Morrison, who left the State Department's policy planning staff last spring after four years of working on Africa policy. "It makes people exceedingly uncomfortable."
Mr. Morrison, like many experts on Africa, agrees that the United States and European countries need to commit more money and more skilled people to rebuilding African governments. But like many others, he concedes that no one is sure about how to do it or how to persuade African leaders to allow what could be perceived as neocolonial meddling.
"None of us have answers," he said.
As director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, Mr. Morrison is preparing a nonpartisan review of Africa policy during the Clinton years to help inform the next administration. "It is not clear that we have come to terms as a government and a nation about what is truly required to help Africa," he said. "If we come in on the cheap side, it is going to backfire. I think it is fair to say that the Clinton administration has suffered from rhetorical excess in Africa and deficits in terms of will and material commitment."
But Mr. Morrison said the administration has been quick off the mark with significant economic and military assistance to Nigeria. Aid there has jumped from $7 million a year to more than $200 million since Mr. Obasanjo was elected in February 1999. On his trip this weekend, the president is not expected to offer much more money.
The stakes are especially high in Nigeria. With 113 million people and huge oil and natural gas reserves, the country has the potential to drive an economic revival in all of West Africa. It is also one of few African states where the United States has a real strategic interest. Oil from Nigeria and Angola accounts for about 16 percent of America's supply, a figure projected to rise to more than 25 percent in the next decade.
Washington is also counting on Nigeria's armed forces to restore peace in nearby Sierra Leone. American troops began arriving in Nigeria last week as part of a $20 million program to train and equip Nigerian and Ghanaian soldiers for peacekeeping.
"Are we hanging too much on Obasanjo?" Mr. Morrison asked. "That is clearly a danger we face. We have to invest in institution building -- the military, the legislature, getting a handle on corruption. But we cannot do any of this stuff on the cheap. It has got to be sustained beyond this president and beyond Obasanjo."
Spending by the United States government on development assistance in Africa has declined in the past decade. Aid to African nations peaked in the early 1990's at just over $800 million a year, dipped to $675 million in 1996 and grew this year to about $738 million. By comparison, Israel received about $900 million in economic support this year and Egypt about $760 million, according to the Congressional Research Service.
The Republican majority in Congress has repeatedly cut the president's budget requests for Africa and has so far failed to approve an administration proposal to forgive about $475 million in African debt.
Presidential trips notwithstanding, many experts on Africa (including several who have served in the Clinton administration) agree that Washington is not spending nearly enough money to sustain or even begin the kind of fundamental reform that is the only possible solution to the continent's complex problems. "You are left with a very weak hand," said Gerald Bender, a professor of international relations at the University of Southern California and an expert on Angola. "You do not have the means to initiate positive things or hold back problems like war."
Mr. Bender and many other African specialists predict that until the United States is willing to work with Europe to pay for a kind of Marshall Plan for Africa, American presidents will have little choice but to follow Mr. Clinton's cheerleading example.
Their role, by default, will be to heap praise on the good man of the hour in Africa and hope that he doesn't turn into a bad man who perpetuates his power by stealing his country's future.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Days after the election of Olusegun Obasanjo as president of Nigeria last year, protesters burned down two police stations. Young Nigerians peer into a jail cell at one of them. (David Guttenfelder/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (94%); GHANA (92%); ERITREA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); UGANDA (92%); CAMEROON (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NIGER (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: ACCRA, GHANA (53%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (54%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (54%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (94%); GHANA (92%); ERITREA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); UGANDA (92%); CAMEROON (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NIGER (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); ACCRA, GHANA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (86%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); RELIGION (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



632 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: The Class War Gore Could Lose

BYLINE: By David Lebedoff; David Lebedoff, a lawyer, is the author of "The New Elite" and "Cleaning Up."

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS
George W. Bush claims Al Gore is campaigning on the issue of class warfare, and of course he is right. What Mr. Bush doesn't mention is that he's running on class warfare, too -- but the classes are different. For Mr. Gore, it's rich vs. "working families," and he's against the rich. For Mr. Bush, the war is between the meritocracy and everyone else, and he's against the meritocracy.
Each candidate is on the right side to win, depending on which war is really being fought -- or, more accurately, on which war most the voters would rather win.

 BODY:
 If it is an economic class war, Mr. Gore has a chance of victory. There is a widespread perception of the growing disparity in wealth, and no one disputes that the tax cut Mr. Bush proposes would greatly benefit the very rich. But a more immediate question is how to keep the good times rolling, and Mr. Bush would claim that the credit for them lies elsewhere than with the Clinton-Gore administration, and that he is the true champion of working families.
The economic battle for the presidency could go either way. And that brings us to the other battle, the one that Mr. Bush expects to win: the war against the meritocracy.
This is a war over what kind of people should be in charge, and it has been raging for decades. To some extent it's a values war.
Beginning with the G.I. Bill, college has depended increasingly more on measurable scholastic ability than on the status of wealth or birth. The good schools, and afterward the good jobs, public and private, have been going to those with the highest grades and SAT scores. The trend accelerated in the 1960's, as federal scholarships and loans and needs-based financial aid further widened the college applicant pool. It is widely assumed that Mr. Bush could not get into Yale today but that Mr. Gore would have a shot at being admitted to Harvard.
So what's the matter with merit? Absolutely nothing -- assuming that merit can be measured. But what if it can't? Do good college grades tell us who is better at life in its wider scope, and not just college courses? Do they tell us who would be a better president?
The meritocracy thinks that they do. This isn't just conceit. People are naturally grateful to the source of their success. To a businessman, it's the free market. To Prince Charles, it's the monarchy. To millions of Americans holding better jobs than their parents ever dreamed of, it's the school work or the SAT. Only that's not what they think. They all think it's merit.
The problem with the meritocracy is that it believes it's certifiably better at everything. It has demonstrated a proficiency at reasoning skills, and therefore thinks every problem can be solved entirely with that proficiency. If this were indeed correct, then Herbert Hoover would have been a better president than Franklin Roosevelt, and Jimmy Carter would have ranked higher than Ronald Reagan.
Another problem with the meritocracy is that it doesn't really believe in majority rule, because if we already know who the smartest people are, why should we bother to solicit the opinion of anyone else?
This has caused, not consciously but very, very pervasively, a restructuring of our institutions to avoid the will of the electorate. The classic example is Hillary Clinton's plan to overhaul health care, devised away from the public debate, in rooms full of policy experts. Increasingly, too, major decisions are made by judges and administrators virtually immune from electoral reproach, let alone removal.
Mr. Bush is hoping that the backlash against this elitist approach is focused on Mr. Gore. To be seen primarily as a wonk is fatal to a candidate today. Mr. Clinton flew under the voter radar because he was a Southern governor who had the good old boy thing down perfectly.
Not that Mr. Bush is really the Midland, Tex., scamp whose drawl can make Lyndon Johnson sound like Dean Acheson. He's the descendant of gentry, the Democrats continually point out, while Mr. Gore is in fact the son of parents who worked their way out of poverty in the South.
So why does this war favor Mr. Bush? Because the voters are so alienated by the effect of the meritocracy on the very concept of consent of the governed that our elections have been transformed. Campaigns are framed to be less about issues than about the candidate's background and outlook. If a presidential candidate is seen as primarily a member of the meritocracy, the voters seem to push the other lever, even if it means tax cuts for the rich.
Values play into this war. A candidate whose principal faith is in pure reason, rather than experience, frightens most voters. As an alternative, they look for someone guided by values: tradition, constancy, patience, resolve, tolerance, dispassion, compassion, courage, good humor, humility, faith.
Faith is a good example. If you believe in God and religious tenets, you possess values other than total reliance on the power of intellect. That's why this campaign has been marked on both sides by more protestations of faith than were ever provoked by Torquemada.
Mr. Gore is very vulnerable in any contest decided by resentment of the meritocracy. In two interviews in The New Yorker, his statements are almost impossible to read -- tortured self-analytical psychobabble and social science prose. These are potentially more damaging than Mr. Bush's gaffes -- since a lack of expertise probably plays better than excessive expertise.
Mr. Bush would do well to reproduce millions of copies of the Gore interviews and drop them from planes over every swing state. The economic class war being played out in this election could go either way; the new elite class war, only one.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); PRINCE CHARLES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



633 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Mexicans Wrestle With Their Own Border Issues

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
WHEN Guadalupe Loaeza hears her country's next president urging a more open border between the United States and Mexico, her heart floods with contradictory emotions.
In struggling to describe the inner tug-of-war, Ms. Loaeza, a successful writer, talks about the many times she has driven across the divide between Tijuana and San Diego. It's a journey that starts with the fear of being assaulted by the gangs of thieves known to prowl the area; the aggravation of waiting in smog-choked lines of cars, with street vendors banging on the windows hawking statuettes of the Virgin of Guadalupe in one hand and a Mickey Mouse doll in the other; the depressing signs of poverty. 
 Once on the United States side, she says, the sun literally seems to shine brighter, and her head fills with game-show tunes. She gorges herself on shopping in fine department stores. Then she plops herself at the best table at the city's best seafood restaurant and orders the biggest lobster she can get.
Inevitably, she said, her waiter is Mexican. The busboys and dishwashers are, too. She scrunches her Saks Fifth Avenue bags out of sight as feelings of shame and sadness sweep over her once again.
"The border is a very painful place for me because it reminds me of all that Mexico has been unable to achieve," she said. "Driving from one side to the other, in a space that is geographically only a few miles wide, you feel as though you have traveled between two different worlds. And for me it is very painful that the world where there is most of the misery and poverty and corruption is Mexico."
Last week, when Vicente Fox Quesada paid his first visit to Washington as Mexico's president-elect and informally presented his ideas for a more liberal northward flow of Mexican workers, he was speaking to a country that sees its southern border mostly as a pathetically inadequate barrier, one that fails to keep out drugs, crime and the tidal wave of some 150,000 undocumented Mexicans each year.
But for Mexicans, the proposals have stirred a flurry of mixed emotions. Among the poor, whose sons and husbands are the most likely to venture illegally across the border in search of decent wages, Mr. Fox's proposals have raised hopes that they might soon be able to cross safely and with dignity.
For the middle classes, an opening of the border seems more a necessary evil. To them, the border is the epicenter of Mexico's love-hate relationship with the United States. Because the border is the gateway to the most powerful country in the world, it is at once mythical and a place where Mexico's disadvantages are magnified.
Jorge Calderon, a 21-year-old college student from the state of Guanajuato, said that migration to the United States dominates its culture. Guanajuato is the home of Mr. Fox and has the nation's third highest rate of migration to the United States.
"Around here," Mr. Calderon groaned, "children do not talk about growing up to become doctors or lawyers. They grow up planning to go to the United States."
Homero Aridjis, a well-known poet, grew up in Michoacan, a state that also has a high rate of migration north. He never felt drawn to the border as a boy, he said. And feels less so as a man.
He doesn't even see the border region as truly Mexican.
"Whenever I go there I feel ashamed," he said. "I wonder, why is it Mexico has to have such a hideous border, full of people trying to get bribes, full of environmental problems, full of poverty? It's the place where all of the negative parts of Mexico thrive best."
Primitivo Rodriguez, a political analyst, had a more optimistic view. The border, he said, has become an engine of new prosperity in the wake of the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement. Border cities, thanks to the American-owned factories called maquiladoras, have Mexico's lowest unemployment rates and access to rare goods and services.
What some Mexicans consider an insufferable invasion of all things American into Mexican border cities -- where radio stations play more rock-and-roll than rancheros and people eat flour tortillas rather than corn -- Mr. Rodriguez considers a dynamic cultural exchange.
"I see the border as sort of a great line of defense of Mexican culture," he said. "It is easy to speak Spanish and sing the Mexican national anthem when you are in Chiapas or Mexico City. But when you hear the anthem in Tijuana or when someone shouts 'Viva Mexico,' in the streets of Ciudad Juarez, it has much deeper meaning.
"It's a Mexican way of saying to America, 'I may have to listen to your music. I may have to learn to speak English. I may even have to work for you. But don't ever forget I am a Mexican."
"Drug trafficking and illegal immigration has given the border a bad image here and in the United States," he said. "But cities like Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez are the fastest-growing cultural and economic centers of the country.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A mother in Tijuana, Mexico, left, kissing her daughter in the United States. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); RETAILERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); CORRUPTION (63%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



634 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment vs. Inflation

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In "Epitaph for a Rule That Just Won't Die" (Economic View, July 30), Louis Uchitelle examined the problems in estimating the Nairu, or nonaccelerating inflation rate of unemployment, traditionally defined as the lowest level of unemployment compatible with price stability.
As the column noted, the drop in unemployment to 4 percent has not caused much inflationary pressure -- contrary to past experience. The phenomenon raises the question of whether a Nairu even exists today. 
 Maybe this is not the right question. Instead, we should ask whether the national unemployment rate is any longer the relevant determinant of inflation. Previous articles have indicated that capital mobility from high to low wage areas in the United States has dampened wage increases. If that is correct, we can assume that capital flows abroad, accompanied by trade liberalization, can have a similar effect.
Because these international flows extend the labor market beyond national boundaries, it would seem that the international unemployment rate should have a stronger relationship to inflation than the national one. A high international rate might be the reason for the apparent price stability in the United States.
 
EDWARD H. SHAFFER, Ph.D.
Vancouver, British Columbia,
July 30
 
The writer is professor emeritus of economics at the University of Alberta.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (50%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (50%); ALBERTA, CANADA (50%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (50%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (50%); ALBERTA, CANADA (50%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (53%); 

PERSON: LOUIS UCHITELLE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



635 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: AUGUST 21-25;
The Fed, and the Markets, Get Comfortable

BYLINE: By JOAN M. O'NEILL

 BODY:
As anticipated, the Federal Reserve sat on its hands at its policy meeting last week, leaving the equity markets basking in a place they are so far enjoying: interest rate limbo.
 Although there are many dissidents, most analysts seem to think that interest rates will remain where they are until after the presidential election. The economic data, though choppy, has shown the undertow of a slowdown from a brittle pace of growth. 
 Last week, the data could only have made the Fed even more comfortable with its rate decision. Gross domestic product data for the second quarter suggested that personal spending and inflation were growing at a moderate pace, while business spending, a key indicator of productivity gains, rose a stunning 14.6 percent. That figure points to further inflation-damping through efficiency advances, a factor the Fed watches closely.
 And the markets seemed to appreciate the indicators as well. All three major stock indexes stepped higher last week, with the Nasdaq jumping 2.9 percent to 4,042.68 points, the Dow industrial average up 1.3 percent to 11,192.63 and the Standard & Poor's 500 up 1 percent to 1,506.46. The 30-year bond yield fell 3 basis points to 5.66 percent. JOAN M. O'NEILL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts
NNM: KREM
Profits at the maker of hot glazed doughnuts more than tripled in its second quarter to $3.6 million, handily surpassing Wall Street's expectations.
Friday's Close -- $80.00
Week's Change -- +28.26%
EST. '00 P/E: 93.90
 
Bausch & Lomb
NYSE: BOL
The producer of eye-care and pharmaceutical products warned that its profits for the rest of the year would be lower than expected and dismissed its president and chief operating officer, Carl Sassano.
Friday's Close -- $34.94
Week's Change -- -38.23%
EST. '00 P/E: 13.05
 
Clearnet Communications
NNM: CLNT
Telus, a Canadian telecommunications company, said it would buy the wireless network in a deal valued at $3.1 billion, a 31 percent premium when the bid was made.
Friday's Close -- $43.44
Week'S Change -- +40.12%
EST. '00 P/E:
 
Ameritrade Holding
NNM: AMTD
Shares of the fifth-largest online broker soared on takeover speculation. The company has been seen as a target since its new chief executive, Thomas Lewis, resigned earlier this month.
Friday's Close -- $17.81
Week's Change -- +19.75%
EST. '00 P/E:
 
Rio Algom
NYSE: rOm
Billiton, the British mining and minerals company, said it would buy the Canadian miner for $1.1 billion in cash, trumping a bid earlier in the week by Noranda that sent Rio Algom shares soaring.
Friday's Close -- $19.38
Week's Change -- +55.00%
EST. '00 P/E: 38.85
 
Next Level Communications
NNM: NXTv
Shares of the maker of high-speed communications equipment plummeted after Steven Levy of Lehman Brothers reduced his rating on the stock.
Friday's Close -- $42.25
Week's Change -- -53.32%
EST. '00 P/E:
 
Albertson's
NYSE: ABS
The grocery and drug store chain lowered its earnings estimates for the quarter ended Aug. 3, prompting analyst downgrades of its shares and the food sector. It pointed to slower sales and higher costs.
Friday's Close -- $21.88
Week'S Change -- -29.15%
EST. '00 P/E: 9.72
 
Provalis
NNM: PVls
The British biotechnology company's diagnostics division said it received regulatory approval to market Glycosal in the United States. Glycosal is used to monitor diabetes and the effectiveness of therapies to control it.
Friday's Close -- $2.00
Week's Change -- +33.33%
EST. '00 P/E:
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BONDS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



636 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Hispanics Give Attentive Bush Mixed Reviews

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: EL PASO

 BODY:
The scene from the 1998 race for governor hardly suggested a typical Republican tableau: There in Segundo Barrio, one of the oldest and poorest neighborhoods in this isolated border city, Gov. George W. Bush had come to eat Mexican sweetbread and campaign in Spanish accented with a Texas twang.
Mr. Bush was venturing into one of the last Democratic strongholds in Texas, an overwhelmingly Hispanic city that no Republican candidate for governor had ever won. But when Mr. Bush was re-elected by a landslide, he also by one estimate won nearly half the Hispanic vote statewide. He even won El Paso. It seemed like political magic; he had found votes in places Republicans usually dared not tread. 
 "It opened eyes among Republicans across the country," said Kenneth Carr, chairman of the city's Republican Party.
As he campaigns for president as "a different kind of Republican," Mr. Bush is now sprinkling his Spanish from Iowa to California, courting Hispanic voters nationwide much as he did in Texas. In speeches, he often mentions the 1998 race as evidence of his commitment to inclusiveness and proof that his policies offer benefits that are colorblind.
In Texas, Mr. Bush's record shows that he has embraced his state's growing Mexican-American population, pointedly rejecting the hostility shown by some members of his party on issues like immigration and bilingual education. Yet Hispanics in Texas remain more likely to be poor, unemployed and without health insurance -- ingrained problems that predate Mr. Bush but problems that his critics say he has done too little to address.
 In a foreign policy address on Friday Mr. Bush focused on Latin America and his desire to strengthen economic and political ties with the region. "Should I become president," he said, "I will look south not as an afterthought but as a fundamental commitment of my presidency."
"George W. Bush's rhetoric is more moderate," said Dolores Briones, the El Paso County judge, a Democrat and the county's highest elected local official, "but the reality for our families has not changed."
Even today, there is debate in Texas about how well Mr. Bush did with Hispanics in 1998. He won 69 percent of the overall vote, and he has claimed winning 49 percent of the Hispanic vote, based on an initial exit poll. But that figure is remarkably high for a Republican, and later exit polls and academic studies suggest his actual total was as low as 33 percent, still high for a Republican but not as impressive.
"They use the 50 percent, and that's just false," said Dr. Rodolfo de la Garza, head of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the University of Texas, who has studied the race. He cautioned against using the 1998 race as a gauge of Mr. Bush's potential appeal because turnout was very low and the challenger was very weak.
There is no question that Hispanics have emerged as the nation's fastest' growing minority group since Mr. Bush took office in 1995. Demographic studies in Texas predict that Hispanics, mostly Mexican-Americans, will surpass Anglos and become the largest ethnic group by 2030. In Houston, the state's largest city, Hispanics are expected to gain majority status by the end of this decade.
Nationally, the political response to this new wave of immigration at times was hostile. Republicans in Congress fought to kill bilingual education and pushed for laws establishing English as the country's official language. Patrick J. Buchanan, running for president in 1996, threatened to build a wall along the border. And, most notably, Gov. Pete Wilson of California became a symbol of intolerance to many Hispanics in 1994 by championing Proposition 187, a controversial referendum that denied most government benefits to illegal immigrants and their children.
Mr. Bush established a very different tone. He named Tony Garza, a Mexican-American, as his first political appointee, as secretary of state. In his first piece of state business, Mr. Bush met with the governors of five Mexican states near the border. He opposed Proposition 187 and supported English Plus, a modified version of bilingual education.
His position on Proposition 187 was mostly moot -- Texas did not provide nearly the same amount of benefits to undocumented immigrants as California did -- but it established him as a friendly face in a hostile party. He courted Mexico, supporting the Clinton administration's bailout of the peso when Congressional Republicans criticized the plan. In 1996, when a quirk in the federal welfare overhaul left many legal immigrants without food stamps, Mr. Bush made an emergency expenditure to provide aid to the elderly and disabled until federal officials corrected the problem.
Mr. Bush also courted Hispanics on a personal level. He spoke Spanish often, if not always fluently, and talked of shared cultures, a point underscored by his own traditional Christmas menu, which included tamales and enchiladas.
"With the Mexican-American community, we appreciate that his feelings are heartfelt," said Mr. Garza, now a member of the Texas Railroad Commission, whose chief responsibility is regulating the oil and gas industry. "You don't get finger pointing from George W. Bush."
The contrast between Mr. Bush and other national Republicans was stark, but, in many ways, he was following the path taken by other Texas governors. Texas and Mexico have long shared cultural, historic and economic ties that have made the two interdependent. When the Mexican peso was devalued in the mid-1990's, the ripple effect was felt all along the Texas border; in El Paso, 80 stores closed. The advent of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which lowered trade barriers between Mexico and the United States, has only deepened the mutual self-interest -- state statistics show that more than 228,000 jobs in Texas are now linked to Nafta.
"No governor in Texas has ever done what Pete Wilson did," said Dr. de la Garza, the University of Texas government professor. And Mr. Bush, he said, has also used his personal charm to establish himself as a "buena gent," or good guy. "Above all, he has managed symbols wonderfully, and that's not a trivial issue. He has demonstrated cultural respect."
A review of Mr. Bush's record shows a more complicated picture. Dan Bartlett, a campaign spokesman for Mr. Bush, said the governor had appealed to Hispanics through broad conservative themes and a cultural emphasis on family and tradition. "The whole theme of personal responsibility and accountability, coupled with the message of inclusion, has resonated with the Hispanic community in Texas," Mr. Bartlett said.
Mr. Bush regularly cites statistics showing how test scores of minority students, including those of Hispanics, have risen in Texas during his tenure. Roughly 70 percent of Hispanic students passed the most recent Texas Assessment of Academic Skills, the exam students must pass to graduate. His Hispanic allies, like Alberto Gonzales, whom Mr. Bush appointed to the Texas Supreme Court, called education a critical issue and credited Mr. Bush for appealing to Hispanic voters with an optimistic, inclusive message.
"Hope is often all that poor Hispanic kids have," said Mr. Gonzales, who grew up poor before graduating from Harvard Law School.
But criticisms of the assessment exam have been loudest from minority groups. The Mexican American Legal Defense Fund in San Antonio challenged the test in court, saying it discriminated against Hispanics, who were more likely to be enrolled in schools with fewer resources. The lawsuit also contended that the state had vastly undercounted dropout rates for Hispanics, and it estimated the true rate at above 50 percent. In January, a federal judge upheld the state's right to administer the test but agreed with the plaintiffs that "Texas minority students have been, and to some extent continue to be, the victims of educational inequality."
Mr. Bush's emphasis on inclusion has focused attention on the 3,041 appointments he has made, perhaps his greatest power as governor. His aides note that in addition to Mr. Garza and Mr. Gonzales, the governor has appointed several other Hispanics to high-level positions, including Jose Montemayor as commissioner of insurance, and Tony Sanchez and Raul Romero to the University of Texas Board of Regents.
But state records show that Mr. Bush's appointments still tend to be overwhelmingly white and mostly male in a state that is increasingly less so. Among his appointees, 13 percent are Hispanic, 9 percent are black and 1 percent are other minorities. By comparison, among state residents, 31 percent are Hispanic, 11 percent are black and 3 percent are other minorities. Sixty-three percent of Mr. Bush's appointees are men and 37 percent are women.
For any Texas governor, one of the most difficult challenges is addressing the endemic poverty along the Mexico border, and Mr. Bush's political success in places like El Paso has raised questions about what he has done for the region. Politically, the border is regarded as one of the last bastions of Democratic power in Texas, but Mr. Bush sensed an opportunity in 1998. He visited the city at least 13 times during his first term, partly because his wife, Laura, had family ties here, partly because the city offered him a chance to demonstrate his bipartisan and biracial appeal.
His local campaign attracted Democratic activists like Terry Diaz, who said she was drawn by Mr. Bush's charisma but also by a pragmatic desire to have his ear for El Paso. Carlos Ramirez, the city's Democratic mayor, angered his party by endorsing Mr. Bush and recalled a frantic Election Day scramble as volunteers handed out fliers at baseball games and canvassed churches, encouraging people to vote. "It was an extremely emotional, very satisfying effort," Mr. Ramirez said.
Mr. Bush won El Paso by 600 votes, a narrow margin that gave him a large symbolic victory. His huge re-election win, coupled with his strong showing among Hispanics, buttressed his national reputation as the front-runner for the party's presidential nomination. In El Paso, Mr. Ramirez said the governor had delivered in his promises to help the city, appointing two residents to powerful state educational boards, supporting the city in a water dispute with New Mexico and signing a law intended to speed up water and sewage services to the poorest communities along the border called colonias.
"The governor has never said no to a request we have made from him," Mr. Ramirez said.
But others disagree. Ms. Diaz, for example, ultimately became disenchanted with the governor and dropped out of his campaign, saying he had done too little to address border problems. The high rates of poverty and the uninsured existed for decades, and Ms. Diaz and others said they did not expect Mr. Bush to resolve such rooted problems in such a short time.
But Eliot Shapleigh, a Democratic state senator who represents El Paso, including Hispanic neighborhoods, said the border still suffers too many inequities. He said local hospitals struggle because the state reimbursement rate for Medicaid is lower on the border than elsewhere. He also said per capita income on the border had fallen every year since Mr. Bush took office. Mr. Shapleigh and other lawmakers along the border have called for a "Marshall Plan" of state investment.
"When you're the governor, and you've got 77 percent popularity and a $6 billion surplus, you can make big things happen in Texas," Mr. Shapleigh said. "He punted."
One of the most pressing problems along the border is the lack of health insurance. More than 1.4 million children in Texas are uninsured. In El Paso alone, 72,000 children who are eligible are not yet enrolled in Medicaid or the federal Child Health Insurance Program. Several lawmakers have received complaints that state officials make it too difficult to enroll in either program and have expressed concerns that the federal government could withhold some money for the insurance program if the pace is not quickened. Since May 1, about 80,000 children have been enrolled, roughly 17 percent of the goal of 428,000.
"Governor Bush has been extremely friendly, extremely supportive in public statements, but the state has not turned the corner in dealing with these issues," said Bill Schlesinger, a co-director of Project Vida, a nonprofit agency with a clinic in one of El Paso's poorest neighborhoods.
Mr. Bush has already been criticized for his efforts in the 1999 legislative session to limit eligibility for the child insurance program to those with family incomes up to 150 percent of the poverty line, even though federal law provided coverage for up to 200 percent. The lower figure would have left 200,000 children without coverage. The governor ultimately signed the law at the 200 percent threshold, and his aides call the issue a priority.
"There are aggressive efforts under way to enroll children in CHIP," Mr. Bartlett said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush visited El Paso in 1997 in his campaign for re-election and won the support of Mayor Carlos Ramirez, a Democrat. Mr. Bush won in El Paso and his re-election came with a surprisingly strong showing among Hispanic voters. (Associated Press)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOVERNORS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); JUDGES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



637 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Home-Grown Drug Business Booms in Vancouver

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia

 BODY:
As Canada's health department looks this fall for a reliable supplier of almost one million marijuana cigarettes for clinical trials, some Canadians say they need to look no farther than "British Colombia," where relaxed attitudes about smoking marijuana have helped turn the province into a major North American producer for some of the drug's strongest strains.
While Mexicans can grow bales of the stuff on plantations, cold weather Canadians have genetically tweaked their indoor plants to reach potencies of 10 times the levels of the Woodstock-era grass, putting it on a par with prized Jamaican weed. 
 Now marijuana is estimated to be a $1 billion-a-year export here, right behind lumber and tourism as the leading business in British Columbia. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police estimate that there are about 9,000 "grow operations" in the Vancouver area. Across the bay from here, in the city of Nanaimo, the Mounties estimate that there are 1,000 residential grow operations, about one every two blocks.
"In my neighborhood, it's one house in 10," said Chris, a 40-year-old grower. "I walk around late at night, after work, and I can smell it, from the fans."
Increasingly, marijuana turns up in the oddest places. In May, a newspaper here reported that a man had been caught growing plants in a garage of a house he rented from the attorney general of the province.
On Aug. 12, two Canadian men wearing military uniforms were arrested in Blaine, Wash., after crossing the border in two Canadian military trucks. (The United States Customs Service says one truck was loaded with five duffel bags, containing a total of 240 pounds of marijuana.)
The concentration of marijuana growing stems from many factors. Judges, mirroring local public opinion, tend to give lenient punishments. An arrest for growing 500 plants, the average size of a bust here, often yields an $800 fine -- compared with a short prison sentence in California or a life sentence in Texas.
"I paid my partner's fine, $500, with money from the business -- it's a business," said Buck, an engaging 30-year-old in a polo shirt. He said he talked his way out of any charges when a policeman his age discovered his grow operation this year.
A study by the local newspaper, The Vancouver Sun, found that of 112 people convicted here of growing marijuana in the late 1990's, one quarter served no jail time and paid no fines, and that 58 percent paid fines of less than $1,800. Fewer than one in seven served any jail time.
With prices for "B.C. Bud" double on the American side of the border, marijuana is indeed lucrative in a province with some of North America's highest tax rates, stagnant economic growth, and high unemployment among young people.
Vancouver also offers the technical support a serious grower needs. With cultivators here approaching their indoor marijuana farming with the solemnity of Japanese bonsai gardeners, the number of stores specializing in hydroponic gardening equipment mushroomed in Vancouver during the 1990's, from 3 to 30. Growing plants without soil, in a mix of rock pellets and nutrient-rich water, requires an array of electric gadgets -- from 1,000-watt lamps to cooling systems to special systems that neutralize telltale odors before ventilation.
At one store, Jon's Plant Factory, the offerings do not seem geared to growing hydroponic tomatoes. In the electronic section, there is a $1,400 sophisticated pager, sort of an electronic plant sitter that can alert the long-distance gardener of system failures -- water pumps, air fans, fertilizer drips -- or even if an intruder has opened a window or a door.
Referring to complex growing systems, Chris, an experienced electrician and plumber, said during a store tour, "Some people will sell their feeding schedules for $6,000."
Cheaper technical support comes from Marc Emery, Canada's leading cannabis capitalist. Mr. Emery offers 350 varieties of marijuana seeds through his Web site and publishes Cannabis Culture, a magazine of gardening tips. This year, he started two Internet media productions, Pot Radio and Pot-TV Internetwork, a 24-hour online broadcast of marijuana news.
For marijuana broadcasters like Mr. Emery, the news from Canada this summer has been encouraging.
In separate rulings in late July, Ontario Court of Appeal judges ruled against employee drug testing and invalidated Canada's law against marijuana possession. In the latter case, Judge Marc Rosenberg suspended his ruling for a year to give Parliament time to rewrite the law. His ruling, however, immediately granted Terry Parker, a 44-year-old Toronto man, the right to smoke marijuana to control his epilepsy.
With Parliament scheduled to return in September, Canada's two national newspapers, The Globe and Mail and The National Post, have editorialized in favor of decriminalizing marijuana for medical uses. Anne McLellan, Canada's justice minister and a member of Parliament for the governing Liberal Party, has said such decriminalization "is a legitimate question."
On that subject, Canadians, as usual, are cautiously looking at the United States.
"Outright legalization would cause serious trouble with the United States," The Globe and Mail editorialized after the Ontario decision. Calling for decriminalization, a path favored by the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, the newspaper concluded, "Therefore, Canada should follow its historical nature and take a middle path."
In a survey here in May for The Vancouver Sun, 56 percent of the people agreed that provincial courts should "ignore the Americans and hand out sentences we think are appropriate." A virtually identical percentage said that possession of marijuana should not be a criminal offense. With 61 seriously ill people authorized by Health Canada to smoke marijuana for medicinal purposes, the government plans to start clinical trials of marijuana next year.
When smugglers are cornered at the border, the smart ones sprint north. Even so, the border is lightly patrolled and few people are caught, compared with the intensely watched United States border with Mexico. In the federal fiscal year ending last September, United States Customs Service agents seized 50 times as much marijuana coming in from Mexico, 988,310 pounds, as they seized coming in from Canada, 19,753 pounds.
Some Americans hope that if Canada decriminalizes marijuana possession it would show the United States a different path, similar to Canada's strict gun control laws and its system of universal, government-administered health care.
This year, the Vancouver police have raided growing operations at twice the rate of last year. But they are careful to publicize their raids as efforts to break up vicious Asian gangs, to protect children from fires in houses with faulty wiring, or to break up smuggling rings where hockey bags stuffed with marijuana are traded for guns and hard drugs from the United States.
"We have houses burning down, we have explosions, we have organized crime in our neighborhoods," Sgt. Chuck Doucette, the Mountie spokesman here, said in an interview. Noting that anonymous tips about grow houses have flooded his office this year, he added, "We cannot keep up with the calls."
Still decriminalization for casual use seems to be a reality here in Vancouver.
Last May, hundreds of people gathered for a marijuana "smoke-in" on the steps of the Vancouver Art Gallery, five blocks from the premier's office. The police ignored the event. In contrast, on the same day the police arrested 312 people for lighting up at a legalization rally in lower Manhattan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Inspector Val Harrison at an East Vancouver house where the police recently found marijuana growing. (Ian Lindsay/Vancouver Sun)
 
Map of Canada highlighting Vancouver: An estimated 9,000 people grow marijuana in the Vancouver area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL CANADIAN MINT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CANNABIS (91%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



638 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2310 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC RUNNING MATE;
As a Senator, Lieberman Is Proudly Pro-Business

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE and DON VAN NATTA Jr.

 BODY:
Joseph I. Lieberman has introduced himself to the American people this month on a decidedly populist note, lashing out against oil companies, assailing industrial polluters and calling for greater government spending on health care.
But behind the traditional Democratic oratory of his convention speech is a senator who has described himself as "pro-business, pro-trade and pro-economic growth." During his two terms in the Senate, Mr. Lieberman closely aligned himself with three industries -- insurance, high technology and health care -- that are the main sources of his campaign contributions, and whose lobbyists say they are pleased with how he has promoted their agendas in Washington. 
 Mr. Lieberman's pro-business record contrasts sharply not only with his own speech at the Democratic National Convention, but also with the larger message that Vice President Al Gore has been sending recently. In his acceptance speech at the convention -- and since then on the campaign trail -- Mr. Gore has repeatedly attacked "big tobacco, big oil, the big polluters, the pharmaceutical companies, the H.M.O.'s."
Whether defending stock options for the newly minted rich of Silicon Valley, promoting legislation that allowed insurance companies to enter new markets or promoting a moderate alternative to the administration's ill-fated health care program, Mr. Lieberman is seen as a leader among a small band of business-friendly Democrats on Capitol Hill.
He has embraced industries viewed as the pillars of a new high-tech, free-trade economy. And Mr. Lieberman and other centrist Democrats have received a windfall of campaign contributions from industries that are not traditional supporters of the Democratic Party.
"Joe Lieberman understands the needs of business and doesn't view industry with hostility," said Herbert Perone, a spokesman for the American Council of Life Insurers, an industry group. "You can count on Joe Lieberman to understand why something is important to us and vote the right way and not scoff at our reasons. He's been a friend to us."
Mr. Lieberman declined to be interviewed for this article, but instead issued a statement saying that he would "call it like I see it on the issues, including when I disagree with those individuals, industries and interests who support me."
And an aide said Mr. Lieberman did not see a conflict between the support he received from business, and the Democratic ticket's populist message. The aide added, "He has done some things the health care industry has liked, and other things they have not liked."
Mr. Lieberman's support for these industries, and theirs for him, are part practical and part philosophical. As the junior senator from Connecticut, where more than 50,000 people work for 36 insurance companies -- including such giants as Aetna, Cigna and Hartford Life -- Mr. Lieberman has worked hard to protect insurance interests.
Geography also accounts for his staunch support of military programs with a Connecticut connection. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, he has been a strong advocate for increased military spending, fighting for the controversial Sea Wolf submarine project, which is made in Groton, Conn., and costs $2.5 billion per sub, and defending such programs as the Blackhawk and Comanche helicopters, which are also manufactured in his state.
But Mr. Lieberman's interests seem to go beyond local politics and reflect a belief that the Democratic Party will flourish -- and the economy, too -- when government promotes international trade, business entrepreneurship and technological innovation. This philosophy has pulled Mr. Lieberman away from such traditional sponsors of the Democratic Party as trade unions and trial lawyers. Instead, he has drawn his greatest support from a Wall Street flush with cash, a Silicon Valley just stepping into the political arena and a health care industry reeling in record profits.
Among Mr. Lieberman's top supporters is the health care industry -- and, more specifically, pharmaceutical companies. A health care lobbyist said the senator was "a loyal friend" who, more often than not, supported industry initiatives on Capitol Hill.
Last year, for example, Mr. Lieberman was part of a bipartisan group in Congress that tried to break a deadlock between the Clinton administration and Republican leaders over how to regulate health plans. At the time, the administration argued that the legislation favored by Mr. Lieberman, which did not pass, would have been too generous to insurance companies.
However, Mr. Lieberman's aides say, he has also taken some anti-industry stances. They point out that he wrote legislation that would have required health care report cards for H.M.O.'s and insurance companies. The legislation was not passed.
 
'There Is No Hesitation There'
Mr. Lieberman is not afraid to take on pharmaceutical companies "when they are wrong," said Dan Gerstein, a spokesman for the senator. "He has opposed the industry on prescription drug prices -- especially at a time of a rising surplus. That is something that Lieberman is proud to stand with Gore and fight for. There is no hesitation there."
Health insurers have come under particularly sharp attack by Mr. Gore, but Mr. Lieberman has always "kept an open door and an open mind" to the industry's arguments, said Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, the H.M.O. trade group in Washington.
"He is very interested in policy, and has mastered the specifics of a number of legislative proposals," Ms. Ignagni said. "He really wants to know the details. His door is always open, and you have the opportunity to make your case." Last year, Mr. Lieberman co-sponsored a bill that limited the amount of money plaintiffs could receive from lawsuits against H.M.O.'s.
Ms. Ignagni predicted that Mr. Lieberman would "find it difficult" to reconcile his generally pro-business record with the populist language of the Gore-Lieberman ticket. "I think it's impossible," she said. "I see it as a political ploy."
But a financial services lobbyist disagreed, noting that President Clinton was often more pro-business than Mr. Gore: "This worked effectively for the last eight years. Why, all of a sudden, do they think it will be an impossible situation? Joe Lieberman's qualities won't dry up and blow away if he is elected vice president."
Before joining the Gore ticket, Mr. Lieberman had already collected nearly $3.3 million for a re-election campaign in which he faced minimal opposition. Executives and political action committees in the insurance, finance and real estate industries were the biggest givers, coming up with $773,386, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group in Washington. Among insurers alone, Mr. Lieberman received more contributions than any other senator.
He also received $276,000 from the health care industry and $173,563 from high-tech companies -- money that Silicon Valley fund-raisers say was given to the senator without his even having to solicit it.
Pro-Israel groups have given him $213,000, and the Free Cuba political action committee, which liked his anti-Castro, pro-embargo stand, gave him $10,500, the largest donation by that organization in the current election cycle. He received $102,700 from military contractors and a much more modest $84,997 from trade unions. He received no contributions from the handgun industry, although some handgun manufacturers are based in Connecticut.
Part of Mr. Lieberman's support among the financial services industry is a result of Connecticut's proximity to Wall Street. The industry was particularly pleased by his support last year of the financial services industry modernization bill, which permitted banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies to merge into even larger conglomerates.
In addition, Mr. Lieberman has used the gospel of the new economy to raise money for similar-thinking Democrats through the New Democrat Network, an ideological political action committee he founded in 1996 with Senator John B. Breaux, the moderate Democrat from Louisiana.
The group has raised a total of $7.2 million since its founding, $4 million of it coming in the past 18 months. Not surprisingly, the three largest industry donors to the New Democrat Network are the same ones that support Mr. Lieberman's Senate campaign committees. The PAC's donors include more than 22 of the nation's largest insurance companies; technology companies like Microsoft, America Online and MCI Worldcom; and a roster of pharmaceutical companies that includes Merck, Glaxo Wellcome and Johnson & Johnson.
"Our mission is to build a generation of Democrats who are more modern and global in their outlook," said Simon Rosenberg, executive director of the PAC. "We view ourselves as a venture capital fund for the Democratic Party."
 
A High-Tech Champion
Silicon Valley corporations are among Mr. Lieberman's biggest fans.
"Right down the line," said Jeff Modisett, vice president and general counsel of TechNet, a Silicon Valley lobbying group, "we are hard pressed to find a bill of importance to us that he hasn't been a champion of or at least supported. It's hard to imagine any other member of Congress who is as well received by the high-tech community as Joe Lieberman."
Mr. Lieberman first went to battle for Silicon Valley in 1994, when he led the charge against proposed accounting changes that would have forced corporations to treat stock options given to employees as a form of compensation, an action that could have halted their use. Fast-growing companies complained that if the bill had passed it would have reduced their profitability, made it impossible to attract and keep top talent and hampered their prospects of going public. Mr. Lieberman led the Senate fight against the rule change, and today is often praised as the senator who saved stock options.
More recently, Mr. Lieberman has supported a laundry list of pet high-tech issues. In the last Congress, he introduced a bill to double government financing of basic high-tech research at universities. He backs efforts to expand tax credits for corporate research and development expenses. He also supports efforts to liberalize visa restrictions to allow more high-tech workers in foreign countries to immigrate here.
Mr. Lieberman also broke with his party to support tort law changes, an issue important to high-tech companies, whose volatile stocks make them worry about class-action lawsuits brought by angry shareholders. And his backing of liberalized trade with China is welcome among high-tech companies wanting to sell their wares there.
The senator's support of liberalized trade with China and tort changes is also popular among his financial services backers. With financial markets expanding, domestic insurance companies want to begin to sell products overseas, especially in India and China. In addition, Mr. Lieberman's attempts to reduce lawsuits against corporations are "a biggie for us," said Mr. Perone of the insurance industry, which is vulnerable to product liability litigation.
As an example of Mr. Lieberman's closeness to the insurance industry, Mr. Perone cited a letter the senator wrote in January to the administration objecting to a proposed $7 billion package of taxes on insurance products as "unwarranted and counterproductive." While the measure had little chance of being enacted -- and ultimately died -- the industry was pleased with the swiftness with which Mr. Lieberman put their thoughts through his pen.
 
The State and the Sea Wolf
As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Mr. Lieberman has pressed to protect the dwindling number of military installations in Connecticut. In the mid-1990's, when efforts were made to scuttle the proposed Sea Wolf submarine program, he managed to make sure that at least three of the $2.5 billion subs were built -- preventing the closing of General Dynamics' Electric Boat facility in Groton.
A military contracting lobbyist remembers that Mr. Lieberman won the debate not by arguing that the boat was important for his state, but by saying the nation needed to retain an industrial base of submarine-making skills until the next generation of subs was designed. Those submarines -- the so-called Virginia class -- are now manufactured in Connecticut as well.
"He brings a certain moral authority to the debate," said one lobbyist for the military industry, "even if it is in his constituents' interest."
For all his pro-business views, Mr. Lieberman is termed an "interesting mix" by Gene Kimmelman, co-director of Consumers Union's Washington office. While Mr. Kimmelman said he had "done battle" with Mr. Lieberman on such issues as tort changes, he also said the senator could be "a strong pro-consumer populist."
Mr. Kimmelman characterized Mr. Lieberman as a strong supporter of consumer protections and antimonopolistic efforts among telecommunications companies and rated him "fairly pro-consumer" on increased government financing for prescription drugs.
Specifically, Mr. Kimmelman cited Mr. Lieberman's successful drive to reregulate the cable television industry after consumers complained of high prices and anticompetitive practices in the early 1990's. Then, when the cable companies sought to lighten these regulations in the landmark 1996 Telecommunications Act, Mr. Lieberman worked against them and succeeded in having the regulations extended somewhat.
"Lieberman was a breath of fresh air for us," Mr. Kimmelman said. "He has his home-state interests he is going to side with. But once he does that, he doesn't have to worry about any other industries. So he goes out of his way to look for important consumer protection issues to get involved in."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph I. Lieberman joined other senators to discuss the health care industry, with which he has closely aligned himself, at a Washington news conference last year. (Associated Press)(pg. 22)
 
Chart: "LEDGER: Supporting the Senator"
A look at Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's current Senate campaign contributors. Figures are for 1995 to 2000 and are the latest available.
 
TOP CONTRIBUTORS BY INDUSTRY
Finance, insurance and real estate: $773,386
Miscellaneous business: 311,745
Ideological or single-issue groups: 305,319
Health-related industries: 276,279
Lawyers and lobbyists: 266,003
Other: 176,960
Communication and electronics: 173,563
Construction-related: 109,450
Military- and aerospace-related: 102,700
Labor unions: 84,997
Transportation: 75,750
Energy and natural resources: 67,202
Agribusiness: 40,750
 
TOP CONTRIBUTORS BY ORGANIZATION
Citigroup: $59,296
United Technologies: 33,500
Hartford Financial Services: 29,500
New Democrat Network: 27,198
Pfizer: 24,650
Aetna: $18,000
Richman Group: 17,000
American Int'l Group: 17,000
Northeast Utilities Service: 15,900
MacAndrews & Forbes: 14,000
(Source: Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. 22)

Chart: "Sources of Support"
Contributions to Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's 2000 Senate campaign.
 
TOTAL: $3,298,552
PAC's: 27%
Individuals: 73
 
Sources of contributions
Business: 79%
Ideological or single-issue groups: 11%
Labor: 3%
Other: 6%
(Source: Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (58%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); INSURANCE LAW (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); STOCK OPTIONS (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (52%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (52%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (92%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



639 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IN NIGERIA TO SHOW SUPPORT FOR CIVILIAN RULE

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria, Aug. 25

 BODY:
Saying "the world needs Nigeria to succeed," President Clinton arrived here today on a visit intended to nudge Africa's most populous country along in its shaky transition to civilian rule after 16 years of debilitating dictatorship.
Upon his arrival, Mr. Clinton met with President Olusegun Obasanjo, a former general who was elected 15 months ago in a democratic transition begun after the death of the country's longtime military ruler, Sani Abacha. It was the first visit by an American president to Nigeria since Jimmy Carter arrived here in 1978. 
 In his lengthy tour of Africa two years ago, Mr. Clinton pointedly bypassed Nigeria, a clear snub to the generals whose callous leadership had made the West African nation of some 114 million people an international pariah and led it perilously close to collapse.
This time, Nigeria is the focus of a four-day, three-nation tour by the president as he tries to encourage the daunting transformation of an important oil producer and regional power that is troubled by volatile ethnic and religious divisions.
After an elaborate airport arrival ceremony that featured song and dance, and a private meeting at the presidential villa with Mr. Obasanjo, Mr. Clinton addressed the National Assembly, a legislative body that was created last year shortly after Mr. Obasanjo won election and which has clashed with him ever since.
"I begin this visit with enormous admiration for the progress you have made and the highest hopes for the progress you will make in the future," Mr. Clinton said after meeting with Mr. Obasanjo, who stood by his side.
Mr. Clinton called it a "high honor to visit the new Nigeria and to pledge America's support to the most important democratic transition in Africa since the fall of apartheid."
In their brief appearance before reporters -- Mr. Clinton wearing a dark suit with a bright red tie and Mr. Obasanjo wearing the customary Nigerian flowing robe called an agbada in sky blue -- the two men touched on the major priorities of the visit: regional peacekeeping, the fight against the AIDS epidemic that has ravaged Africa, the diamond smuggling that has fueled the continent's many wars, and the economics of oil.
In his initial meeting with Mr. Obasanjo, the president encouraged Nigeria to do what it could to press other oil producers to increase production and cut prices. Nigeria, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is the sixth-largest supplier to the United States, providing about 8 percent of America's imported oil.
For his part, Mr. Obasanjo said he would push for lower, or at least more stable, oil prices when he attends a summit meeting of the 10 OPEC heads of government next month. "We will work to bring an element of stability to the price of oil," Mr. Obasanjo said. "It is in the interest of all concerned."
Mr. Clinton intends to announce a series of new aid packages for Nigeria, mostly for primary education and disease prevention, that would add about $20 million to the $108 million that the United States currently provides.
He also gave the Nigerians encouraging words when it came to relief from the country's $32 billion debt burden. The president said he would urge European countries to reschedule their loans with Nigeria, and would push to include Nigeria in a program for debt forgiveness sometime in the future, if the country stays on the path of reform.
In addition, Mr. Clinton stressed the critical role Nigeria has played as a peacekeeper on the continent, which has been bled by a broad swath of conflict stretching from Sierra Leone in the west, to Congo at its center, to the Horn of Africa in the east.
Nigeria has spent $10 billion on peacekeeping over the last decade in more than two dozen missions, American officials said. But its military has a poor record on human rights that includes summary executions of rebels and rebel supporters.
Timed to coincide with the president's trip, the United States this week began training the first of five battalions of Nigerian soldiers for peacekeeping duties in nearby Sierra Leone, where 11 British soldiers sent as part of a force to help restore order after civil war reignited in May were reportedly abducted today.
Mr. Obasanjo, meanwhile, said Nigeria has offered to play host to next year's global meeting on AIDS, an issue of primary importance across the continent. In Africa, where AIDS has lowered life expectancies and undermined economies, 24 million people are estimated to have the disease or the virus that causes it.
Mr. Clinton's visit is intended to encourage Nigerians to stick with democracy in the face of these and other difficulties: poverty, endemic corruption and ethnic strife in a nation that Samuel R. Berger, the president's national security adviser, called the "poorest oil-rich country in the world."
Despite these challenges, Nigeria remains one of the continent's wealthiest states and the economic and political powerhouse of its region. With one quarter of the population of all of sub-Saharan Africa and significant oil resources, the country is viewed by the United States as a potentially stabilizing force in Africa, where the "renaissance" that Mr. Clinton hailed on his last visit two years ago has all but withered elsewhere.
"This is a make-or-break transition, not just for Nigeria, but for Africa," Mr. Berger told reporters before the trip began. "If Nigeria succeeds, this can help lift the whole region to prosperity and peace. If it fails, it can swamp the whole region in turmoil and misery."
The two presidents also plan to discuss how to improve Nigeria's notoriously corrupt and inefficient oil production system, which sends millions of barrels to the United States and other countries but cannot seem to supply its own local gas stations.
Mr. Obasanjo has himself undergone something of a transformation in his years in Nigerian political life. A former general, he once headed a military government after General Murtala Muhammad was assassinated in 1976. But he handed over power to a civilian president in 1979, and spoke out so vocally against corruption and military rule that General Abacha later jailed him.
Mr. Clinton gently encouraged Mr. Obasanjo to continue the political reforms he has started over the past year. In speaking before the legislature today, the president urged cooperation toward that end from all of the country's political players.
"In the constitutional system, the legislature provides a check and balance to the executive," Mr. Clinton told a joint session of the Assembly, remarks that caused lawmakers frustrated by Mr. Obasanjo's governance to jump from their seats in applause.
But Mr. Clinton also encouraged the members of the House and Senate to "be a source of creative, responsible leadership."
"I know that decades of misrule and deprivation have made your religious and ethnic divisions deeper," Mr. Clinton said. "But that is no reason to let the idea of one united Nigeria slip away.
"The world needs Nigeria to succeed."
His audience was clearly enthused.
Later, at a state dinner of pepper soup and beef tournedos, Mr. Obasanjo gave Mr. Clinton three Nigerian names, one for each of the country's three major ethnic groups, and he changed the name of the main roadway leading from the airport to President Clinton Drive. But the Nigerian president also made an additional, spirited pitch for debt forgiveness.
"There's no light at the end of the tunnel," he said. Without forgiveness, "we shall perpetually remain in debt."
Mr. Clinton responded by saying, "I will do my best to help Nigeria succeed economically."
Outside of Abuja, Nigeria's spiffy new capital, Mr. Clinton will see little else of the country. The president will venture out only once during his two-day stay, to a village several miles away that was being buffed and polished for his visit on Sunday.
From Nigeria, Mr. Clinton heads to Tanzania, where he will lend his support to the efforts of Nelson Mandela, the former South African president, to broker a peace agreement between warring ethnic groups in Burundi. Mr. Mandela met with negotiators today as they tried to reach at least a partial accord before Mr. Clinton's arrival on Monday. But talks reportedly remained at an impasse.
Mr. Clinton winds up his trip early Tuesday morning with a two-hour stop in Cairo, added to the schedule to allow the president to discuss the Middle East peace talks with Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, with Nigeria's president, Olusegun Obasanjo, at a news conference in Abuja yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); The Nigerian president, Olusegun Obasanjo, and President Clinton outside Mr. Obasanjo's villa yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. 8)
 
Map of Nigeria highlighting Abuja: President Clinton will see little of Nigeria beyond Abuja, its capital. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: ABUJA, NIGERIA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ABUJA, NIGERIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); OIL EXTRACTION (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SMUGGLING (66%); DIAMOND MARKETS (60%); AIDS & HIV (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



640 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Storm Raised by Plan For a California Prison

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

DATELINE: DELANO, Calif.

 BODY:
This aging farm town has yet to meet the New Economy and is barely on speaking terms with the old one. It had staked its hopes for recovery on the nearby North Kern State Prison, but 10 years later, the prison has not lived up to its promise of lowering the town's 26 percent unemployment rate or boosting business.
Still, Delano lobbied hard and finally persuaded state officials to build another maximum-security prison here, right across the road from North Kern State. 
 In a ceremony here on July 4, Gov. Gray Davis celebrated the proposed $335 million prison as a win-win: an increase in prison cells for a system the California Department of Corrections describes as 195 percent over capacity and a tax-and-revenue boon for Delano, known for its lettuce fields and as the birthplace of the United Farm Workers.
But the prison, which would be California's 24th new one since the state began the biggest prison building boom in the nation's history in 1980, may not be a done deal. The prospect of yet another prison has galvanized groups across the state, including prison moratorium advocates, liberal members of the State Legislature and those opposed to the "three strikes" law.
A coalition of these groups has sued the state to stop the prison, ostensibly on environmental grounds, but in fact to force the state to re-examine its prison building plans and rethink its strict policies limiting paroles. The groups contend that it would be much more beneficial to the state and offenders if, instead of incarceration, the authorities began pushing treatment for those convicted of drug use and mentoring and job opportunities for young people at risk of going astray.
The question the coalition is forcing: does California, with a penal system larger than that of most countries, need a new prison?
The debate reflects -- and will surely influence -- a larger one nationwide over whether the country is building too many prisons.
The Department of Corrections and the California Correctional Peace Officers Association say the planned 5,000-bed prison is needed to help alleviate overcrowding in a system with roughly 161,500 prisoners in 33 prisons. Farming towns like Delano, where about half the high school students go to college, celebrate new prisons as job centers (though there is scant evidence that prisons provide significant employment to local residents) and as the means to a bigger tax base.
But those suing to stop the prison say that the meager benefits it would bring to Delano's ailing economy are no reason to build an institution that is superfluous. They say it is the result of the Department of Corrections overestimating projections of new inmates and underusing parole and prison alternative programs. With the state's crime rate dropping for eight straight years and the prisoner population dropping for the first time in 23 years, the critics say, there is no need for yet another state prison.
"Politicians are trying to wear the cloak of being tough on crime to pander to the fears of voters," said John Vasconcellos, a Democratic state senator, about why the Delano prison was approved. "But voters have repeatedly voted down bonds to build new prisons. They want public safety and leaders that have the insight and leverage to enhance public safety, but not just by locking people up and treating them badly and having them come out worse."
Cal Terhune, the director of the Department of Corrections, says that although the number of prisoners has been leveling off, the population projections, based on California's growth, "would justify the need for another facility."
Mr. Terhune says that a dire need exists for maximum-security cells for the most violent offenders. About 9,000 such inmates are now in cells with less violent offenders, he said, in a mix that has proved volatile.
Don Novey, president of the correctional officers' union, said that opponents of the prison had not factored in that the prison system, which he said was short 2,000 guards, had been incredibly overcrowded for 30 years.
But Mr. Vasconcellos says the timing of the new Delano prison is especially bad because of a voter initiative on the November ballot, which is expected to be approved, that demands alternatives to incarceration for nonviolent offenders charged with drug possession.
"The governor blackmailed us into approving it in exchange for other things," Mr. Vasconcellos said of the prison. "The opening of the second Delano prison would be contingent on the Department of Corrections developing and filling 9,000 therapeutic drug treatment beds."
Mr. Davis had asked for two new prisons, the one in Delano and a smaller one in San Diego County; the Legislature approved only one.
Prison moratorium groups say the correctional officers' union, the most powerful union in the state and one of Mr. Davis's major campaign contributors, is behind pushing the Delano prison through the Legislature.
They point out that as recently as December, the state canceled plans to build four 500-bed privately run prisons because officials like Mr. Terhune said that the beds were not needed. "If the state didn't need 2,000 new beds in December, why does it need 5,000 new beds now?" said Rose Braz, program director for the Critical Resistance in Oakland, which challenges the proliferation of prisons and is a main plaintiff in the suit against the Delano prison
In a projection of prisoner population, the Department of Corrections overestimated what the population would be by Dec. 31, 1999, by 2,648, according to its figures.
Those fighting the new prison say that regardless of the reason, the figures prove that a new prison is counterintuitive.
Eric Etelson, of the National Lawyers Guild, another plaintiff against the Delano prison, said that the suit seeks to get to the root of the prison population explosion in California. "What's fundamentally wrong with the California prison system is that it's too big," Mr. Etelson said. "There are too many people who shouldn't be in prison who are."
For towns that have staked their hopes of rebirth on the construction of a prison and what it should bring -- for tax purposes, all inmates are considered residents -- the philosophical debate is about what a prison will do for the economy.
Skepticism is growing in these communities. One in three new prisons built in the state since 1980 are in the Central Valley, yet the unemployment rate in the valley remains at five times the state average.
And here in Delano, a city of 35,000 residents about 25 miles from Bakersfield, the answer is decidedly mixed. Napoleon Madrid, the mayor, says that the first prison was supposed to bring jobs and did not. In 1990, the unemployment rate was the same as it is now.
Only 7 percent to 9 percent of the jobs go to local residents, the prison's opponents say, and those are the low-paying service jobs. Of the 1,600 jobs projected for the new prison, Mr. Madrid said that the Department of Corrections estimated that only 72 would go to the residents of Delano.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Delano, a city of 35,000, residents vary on whether the prison has improved economic life for families.; The mayor of Delano, Calif., points out that the town's unemployment is the same as when its first prison, North Kern State, above, was built. (Photographs by Daniel Ocampo for The New York Times)
 
Map of California highlighting Delano: A lawsuit seeks to stop plans for a second prison at Delano, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (56%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (56%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PRISONS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PAROLE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); LITIGATION (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIME RATES (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); FARM LABOR (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); HISTORY (67%); LIBERALISM (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN VASCONCELLOS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



641 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Reports Afghan Curbs Hurt Populace

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 25

 BODY:
As some Security Council members, led by Russia and the United States, move toward increasing sanctions on the militant Islamic government of Afghanistan, a report by the United Nations' relief coordinator there says that the existing economic embargo is having "a tangible negative effect" on efforts to help the Afghan people.
A survey in mid-August by relief officials found that sanctions imposed in 1999 are stifling what international trade was left in a country still shattered by more than 20 years of civil war, severe drought and the frequently self-defeating economic strictures of the Taliban, the strict Islamic movement that seized power four years ago. 
 The embargo is also further isolating Afghans and making it more difficult for the outside world to deal with their leaders, the report found.
The findings, issued this week in New York, have added to a debate about the unintended consequences of embargoes in the Security Council, which has ordered a study on the effects of sanctions and open-ended embargoes as a policy tool.
Sanctions were imposed on the Taliban largely at the behest of the United States, which wants Afghanistan to hand over Osama bin Laden, the Saudi-born financier who lives in Afghanistan and has been accused of financing international terrorism.
Russia, which fears the spread of Islamic militancy on its southern borders, and Iran, which supports a faction of the armed opposition, have called for even harsher measures. An embargo on arms sales is being discussed.
United Nations officials and Afghans agree that an arms embargo will have widespread support among the Afghan population, which has seen arms flow in from Pakistan, Iran, Central Asia and Russia, diplomats said.
In human terms, the report said, "A significant impact of sanctions is the extent to which ordinary Afghans feel isolated and victimized." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RELIGION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); ARMS EMBARGOES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); DROUGHT (55%); 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



642 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Powerless In a World Of Greater Choice;
Consumers Grow More Anxious As They Are Cut Loose In Electricity's New Free Market

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
Over the last 20 years, a dogma has taken root in America that says people would be happier and better off if they were all continually shopping for the best deals. Consumers, according to this theory, should be empowered and freed from the old business monopolies and the dictates of fussy bureaucrats.
So airlines were deregulated, and telephone service, and then the Internet arrived, giving people the ability to choose from 10 different sellers of the same merchandise. The bull market on Wall Street brought 5,000 mutual funds begging for attention. Having more choices became an end in itself. 
 But for millions of people, especially in New York and California, the doctrine of the sovereign consumer has come into question this summer around a commodity that most had taken completely for granted: electricity. A recently deregulated energy market, which was supposed to increase choices and reduce prices, has, for most residents, done nothing of the kind. Many community leaders and politicians, calling for investigations and caps on rising electricity bills -- up 30 percent to 40 percent from those of last August in many areas -- have denounced energy deregulation as either a failure or a fraud.
Some social scientists say that the anxiety over energy is exposing something even deeper in the human wiring. At a time when protesters have railed in Seattle and Washington against chain stores and global branding, and prominent social critics have denounced the intrusion of endless choice into every corner of life -- a phenomenon that Barry Schwartz, a psychologist at Swarthmore College, calls "the tyranny of freedom" -- the public's worries about electricity may say more about human nature than about kilowatts.
Perhaps, this alternative theory says, there is a point at which people no longer wish to be autonomous, rational consumers at all. Maybe they would just as soon delegate their decisions regarding some transactions, as they did when Consolidated Edison was the only game in town and government was assigned to make sure that the company played by the rules. Maybe when it comes to electricity, a mysterious and dangerous thing that is also the foundation of modern living, Americans are just a little afraid to be alone.
"In the past we trusted that state regulators who were appointed by our elected officials were watching out for us, which may or may not have been true," said Edward A. Smeloff, a former utility industry official who runs a research group on electricity at Pace University. "The new model is, 'Figure it out for yourself.' "
Some economists and energy industry experts say the sense of powerlessness and confusion that many people feel is perhaps as much a source of anxiety and anger as higher electricity bills. The players have all changed and no one seems to be in charge.
The old Brooklyn Union Gas Company, for example, still remembered by many New York residents for the fuzzy, feel-good images of its advertising, has become the cool and metallic-sounding KeySpan Energy. The old Con Ed, on the other hand, was like a crotchety grandfather who sometimes had to be prodded and yelled at, but who nonetheless presided over the system.
The company now throws up its hands and says it is not responsible for recent price increases; Con Ed's wires are simply a delivery mechanism for the unregulated corporations that own generating plants, Con Ed's chairman said at a recent hearing at City Hall.
Opinion poll takers say anxiety about deregulation may also have something to do with a contradiction in the American psyche that they say has opened up in recent years, a contradiction about what people really want. Surveys conducted by Yankelovich Partners, a research and consulting firm based in Norwalk, Conn., have said, for example, that a majority of people want more control over the details of their lives, but a majority also want to simplify their lives, a result that Barbara R. Caplan, a partner at the firm, has called "the paradox of our time."
Deregulated energy arrived right in the middle of those conflicting goals; because only a handful of energy competitors have been attracted to the New York market, most people still do not have much choice in their electricity, and yet it all seems more complicated than ever, as well as more expensive.
Another factor, some researchers say, may be a result of timing. People have had experience with deregulation, and they have seen that it did not always unfold to their benefit. The hub-and-spoke system developed by the airline industry, for example, has given airlines near-monopoly power at many airports around the country, resulting in less competition, not more. Consumers have also seen that although tools like the Internet have made buyers more powerful in getting good prices, corporations on the other side of the transaction have become more powerful, too, in gathering information about them.
"Years ago, you went into an auto dealership and had to negotiate to buy a car, but only the corporate side had knowledge of what the real costs were," said Mark L. Gillenson, a professor of management information systems at the University of Memphis. "Now you go into the Internet, and lots of places will give you that information for free." On the other hand, Professor Gillenson said, the data that corporations are collecting about people are creating what the old car dealer could never have imagined: knowledge about what people want before they even ask.
Lurking behind all those forces, some psychologists say, is the growing sense that people are simply being asked to decide too much. Economic deregulation has accompanied what may be called social deregulation, as issues that were not even considered decisions in the past have become issues of conscious choice: whether to get married and have children, or how to express oneself sexually, as gay, straight or somewhere in between.
And the more choices there are, the more it can seem possible to achieve an ideal result in every case, leading to a doomed, treadmill kind of behavior often seen in people who continually change their long-distance telephone service as they endlessly seek an incremental price advantage.
"Over what domains in life are you supposed to have control?" said Professor Schwartz, the Swarthmore College psychologist. "Nobody gets depressed when you can't control the weather, and years ago nobody got depressed because they couldn't control your telecommunications or electricity either, because those things couldn't be controlled," he said. "But now you can, or you're told that you can, and so you're going to be continually frustrated."
And electricity is also just different. Unlike a telephone call, or an airline ticket, nobody ever really wants to buy electricity itself -- rather, people buy its expression and result: a cold beer in the fridge, a light to read by. By the standards of American marketing, it is barely a product at all.
"People want to make choices about clothes and restaurants and what houses they live in, but a lot of us would rather not be bothered with having to make a choice about electricity," said Wendy Kaminer, a public policy fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study in Cambridge, Mass. "It's not a desire to be disempowered," Ms. Kaminer added. "It's a desire not to be bothered."
Finally, some experts think that the long bull market for stocks, in which share prices mostly just go up, has made people forget a fundamental truth about how markets work: they are genuinely fair only over the long run, while at any given time, there are likely to be as many losers as winners.
"Deregulation and privatization were sold implicitly on the assumption that everybody can win from this, but I'm hard pressed to find an example in the real world where that has happened," said Willis Emmons, a professor in the strategy, public policy and ethics department at Georgetown University's business school. Right now, Professor Emmons added, "maybe somebody is winning, but it isn't the consumer."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (FPG International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); NEW YORK (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (88%); RETAILERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); BRANDING (71%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



643 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Sir Lynden Pindling, 70, Prime Minister Who Led Bahamas to Independence

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
Sir Lynden O. Pindling, the prime minister of the Bahamas for 25 years whose reputation and relationship with the United States were marred by unresolved accusations of protecting drug traffickers, died yesterday at his home in Nassau. He was 70.
The cause was prostate cancer, aides said in a statement. 
 Mr. Pindling was the prime minister from 1967 to 1992, leading the Bahamas through tremendous change, including the transition from a British colony to independence in 1973. He was defeated in the 1992 election by the current prime minister, Hubert Ingraham. At the time of his defeat, Mr. Pindling had been in office longer than any leader in the Western Hemisphere except Fidel Castro of Cuba.
Yesterday, as radio and television stations in the Bahamas broadcast tributes to Mr. Pindling, Mr. Ingraham called him "a giant of our times," according to The Associated Press.
Left unmentioned, however, were allegations involving Mr. Pindling in the 1980's that political observers in the Bahamas say contributed to his defeat. He was accused of covering up for drug traffickers and of taking bribes as the chairman of the nation's Hotel Commission. A Bahamian government commission was unable to substantiate any of the claims, but the allegations had pronounced political ramifications.
Mr. Pindling remained a member of the House of Assembly until 1997, when he resigned after 41 years in that legislative body. At the time, he said he was "less than perfect," but added that "when all I did for good is put in the balance against all I did for ill or failed to do at all, I hope that future generations will not find me sorely wanting."
In 1953, Mr. Pindling helped found the Progressive Liberal Party, a political organization dedicated to overthrowing the mostly white colonial-run United Bahamian Party. Some supporters called him the "black Moses."
When Mr. Pindling was first elected prime minister in 1967, he ended a tradition of white minority rule that had been in place for centuries. He devoted his first term in office to securing independence from Britain and used that prestige to win five more elections.
Mr. Pindling spent much of his time working to improve the reputation of his country, but became vulnerable to charges of corruption in 1984, when an official commission set up to investigate drug trafficking in the Bahamas found wide evidence of official corruption in his cabinet and the Bahamian police. The commission eventually cleared Mr. Pindling of any wrongdoing, but said that he and his wife had at least $3.5 million in bank deposits that could not be accounted for.
At the 1987 trial of Carlos Lehder, a founder of the Medellin cocaine cartel in Colombia, prosecutors charged that Mr. Lehder and other drug traffickers had paid at least $5 million to Mr. Pindling for permission to use the Bahamas as a shipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for the United States.
Several drug smugglers testified that they had made such payments directly to Mr. Pindling. The prime minister denied the accusations. After Mr. Lehder's conviction, the United States sought to confiscate his holdings in the Bahamas, but was rebuffed by Mr. Pindling. He continued to quarrel with the United States until his 1992 defeat.
By that year, though, a decline in the economy in the late 1980's and early 1990's had become the decisive factor for many voters. Tourism was by far the largest source of employment and revenue in the nation of more than 700 islands, and the Bahamas was finding it difficult to compete with other vacation destinations.
To many young voters, Mr. Pindling was seen not as a father of their country, but as an international pariah and leader who could not get them jobs.
Mr. Pindling is survived by his wife, Lady Marguerite; two sons, Obafemi, 40, and Leslie, 39; two daughters, Michelle Sands, 38, and Monique Johnson, 34; and five grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Lyden O. Pindling in 1983. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: BAHAMAS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHAMAS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); BRIBERY (78%); COCAINE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); LIBERALISM (67%); CARTELS (65%); CANNABIS (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: HUBERT INGRAHAM (73%); FIDEL CASTRO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



644 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-14
 
Clinton Visits Nigeria To Encourage Democracy
President Clinton began a four-day trip to Africa, landing in Nigeria to help support the shaky transition of Africa's most populous country to civilian rule from 16 years of entrenched military dictatorship. 1 

Wild Card in the Middle East
Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and Hamas, the Islamic militant group which he serves as spiritual leader, remain the wild card of Middle East politics, their unreconciled hatred for Israel a lurking threat to destabilize peace. 1
 
New Focus on Mubarak
The Clinton administration is focusing on the Egyptian leader, Hosni Mubarak, as the key to finding a solution in the Middle East, particularly on the future status of Jerusalem. 13
 
Troubled Election in Lebanon
Lebanese begin voting today in a parliamentary election marked by a deepening economic crisis, widespread public cynicism and startlingly open denunciations of vote rigging and Syrian domination. 10
 
British Troops Captured
One of the rival factions fighting in Sierra Leone kidnapped 11 British soldiers who are part of a force trying to bring order to the country. 8
 
Sanctions Hurting Afghanistan
A report by the United Nations' relief coordinator in Afghanistan says that the existing economic embargo is having "a tangible negative effect" on the country and on efforts to help the Afghan people. 4
 
Algerian Cabinet Resigns
Citing differences within his cabinet and with President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, Prime Minister Ahmed Benbitour handed in the resignation of his government and was replaced by Mr. Bouteflika's chief of staff, Ali Benflis. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NATIONAL 16-26
 
As a Senator, Lieberman Is Proudly Pro-Business
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman has closely aligned himself with three industries -- insurance, high technology and health care -- that are the main sources of his campaign contributions. His pro-business record contrasts sharply with the larger message that Vice President Al Gore has been sending recently. 1
 
Gov. George W. Bush has embraced his state's growing Mexican-American population. Yet Hispanics in Texas remain more likely to be poor, unemployed and without health insurance, problems that predate Mr. Bush but that his critics say he has done too little to address. 1
 
Prayer at Games
Students throughout the South are praying in the stands before football games, but school officials have carefully stayed out of the way in order not to violate a June decision of the United States Supreme Court. 1
 
Pilots Reach Tentative Deal
United Airlines and its pilots reached a tentative agreement in a contract dispute that forced the world's largest airline to cancel more than 20,000 flights. 26
 
New Prison Questioned
A plan for a new $335 million prison has galvanized groups across California, who want the state to rethink its policies limiting paroles. 16
 
Deutch Investigation
A special prosecutor investigating John M. Deutch, the former director of the C.I.A., expects to recommend that he be prosecuted for mishandling classified information, government officials said. 24
 
Nixon and Self-Medication
A new biography says that President Richard M. Nixon medicated himself with a mood-altering prescription drug in the White House. 26
 
NEW YORK/REGION 29-36
 
Electricity Deregulation May Have a Hidden Cost
The recently deregulated energy market, which was supposed to reduce prices in New York State has, for many residents, done nothing of the kind. Community leaders and politicians, calling for investigations and caps on rising electricity bills -- up 30 percent to 40 percent from those of last August in many areas -- have denounced energy deregulation as either a failure or a fraud. 29
 
Suburbs Reviving Downtowns
All over the New York region -- and throughout the country -- suburban communities are struggling to reverse a decline that began decades ago as shoppers fled the central business districts of older suburbs for outlying malls, leaving behind deserted commercial streets. 29
 
Killing Rampage in Connecticut
Mark Cote, a 29-year-old phlebotomist, went on a killing rampage in Waterbury, Conn., gunning down a neighbor, a city firefighter and the mother of an ex-girlfriend in less than 15 minutes, before killing himself, the police said. 32
 
Fresh Air Fund 36
 
OBITUARIES 38
 
Lynden O. Pindling
The former leader of the Bahamas whose reputation and relationship with the United States was marred by unresolved accuations of protecting drug traffickers, he was 70. 38
 
Edward Craven Walker
A champion of nudism and designer of the Lava lamp, he was 82. The Singapore-born entrepreneur took an unusual egg timer he found at a pub and turned it into a must-have item for a generation of dormitory students. 38 
 
Chess 37
Weather 39 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALGERIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%); HAMAS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (94%); NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALGERIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AIRLINES (83%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (83%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HAMAS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); PAROLE (71%); RELIGION (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); PRISONS (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HOSNI MUBARAK (73%); ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (58%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



645 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: After the Mall: Luring Shoppers Back Downtown

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
In downtown New Rochelle, in Westchester County, a decaying mall was replaced by an elaborate $194 million entertainment complex that is meant to evoke an idealized image of city life.
In downtown Hempstead village, on Long Island, a shopping center with a Home Depot is nearing completion on the former site of an Abraham & Straus department store. 
 And in downtown Englewood, N.J., officials have been working block by block to revive a section of a shopping strip that only recently was scarred by drug dealing and abandoned buildings.
All over the region -- and throughout the country -- suburban communities are struggling to reverse a decline that began decades ago as shoppers fled the central business districts for the outlying malls, leaving behind deserted commercial streets that cast a pall on the surrounding residential neighborhoods.
These days, the robust economy, a growing distaste for suburban sprawl and increasing demands on people's time are helping to fuel a renewed focus on suburban downtowns. Suburban malls are not exactly a thing of the past, but many people find them a nuisance to get in and out of, especially for smaller errands.
"Neighborhood shopping has taken a huge jump," said Philip H. Kowalcyzk, a managing partner at Kurt Salmon Associates, a retail consulting firm in New York. "It's all about the convenience factor."
At the same time, wealthier suburbs are becoming less receptive to so-called big-box stores, like Home Depot and Costco, forcing retailers to look for alternatives.
Often, they are finding them on the edge of cities, in the older suburbs, which long ago ceased being a refuge from urban problems and now tend to look much more like the cities themselves, racially and socioeconomically.
"The relentless sprawl of the 90's, and the resulting congestion, has made the outer areas more hostile to development," said James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "The developers are getting a warmer welcome in urban communities."
National retailers are also beginning to recognize the buying power of minority neighborhoods, and are less afraid to venture into them.
Seizing on these trends, several older suburban communities in the New York region have devised plans for increasing their tax base and resuscitating their downtowns. Some, like New Rochelle and Mount Vernon, also in Westchester County, hope that entertainment will be a magnet. Others, like Englewood, have adopted a more gradual, comprehensive approach. And still others, like Hempstead and Port Chester, in Westchester County, are counting on big-box development.
Some urban planners have voiced skepticism about the larger projects, saying that they are not likely to be the magic bullet that turns around a downtown, especially if the people who use them can avoid the downtown streets. "Generally, the big single project dropping out of the sky won't do it," said Bob Yaro, the executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit civic group serving New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Englewood offers a cautionary tale. In the early 1990's, the city approved plans for a shopping mall behind West Palisade Avenue, a stretch of its downtown that is literally on the other side of the tracks from the more prosperous east side. The mall created jobs, but it did not lead to more pedestrian traffic on West Palisade, apparently because it was self-contained, with parking right in front of the stores. "It was a peninsula," said Peter Beronio, the city's director of economic development.
Since then, Englewood has rethought its strategy for revitalizing West Palisade and is now considered a model for other small cities, said Jef R. Buehler, the acting state coordinator of Main Street New Jersey, an economic development program run by the State Department of Community Affairs.
It is too early to know whether New Roc City, New Rochelle's new entertainment complex, will escape the fate of other large projects that could not deliver on their promises.
Built in part with public money -- including $25 million from the city for the construction of a garage -- New Roc City straddles an immaculate cobblestone street and has a facade inspired by New York of the 1920's. The new complex, which replaced a shopping mall abandoned by Macy's in 1992, includes an 18-screen theater, two skating rinks, a video game room, an amusement ride called the Space Shot, two restaurants and a Super Stop and Shop market.
Although business has been light on weekdays, New Roc City draws crowds on weekends. Regal Cinemas, the nation's largest movie house chain, says its theater at New Roc City is one of the company's top 10 performers. Robert M. Greene, one of the developers, said about 70,000 people visited the center each week, exceeding his projections.
Angela North, a Pelham, N.Y., resident who works on Wall Street, goes to New Roc several times a week with her children. "I think it's great," she said. "And you can't complain about the security. The kids aren't going to cause any problems." The complex has a police substation and a highly visible security office.
But a number of storefronts near the complex are empty, and several downtown business owners said New Roc had yet to bring them more customers. "The effect that everybody is looking for is not there yet," said Addison Cornelius, the owner of Dominic's, a men's clothing store that has been in New Rochelle since 1966. "Everybody thought it would happen overnight. That's not realistic."
Not long ago, New Rochelle officials were reminded that urban redevelopment is more often than not a Sisyphean endeavor. R.E.I., which sells outdoor gear and clothing and is one of Main Street's few upscale retailers, said it would close its 11-year-old store next June because of disappointing sales.
And New Roc itself has had setbacks. The project includes 92 units of office space, but they have not been rented, and the developers have asked to be allowed to convert them into apartments. City officials would have preferred downtown to have both residents and hundreds of new office workers, who would make use of shops and restaurants during the day, said Michael D. Ritchie, the city's commissioner of development.
Family Golf Centers, the parent company of Sports Plus, the operator of the center's skating rinks and video arcades, filed for bankruptcy protection in May. But Mr. Greene, the developer, said Family Golf's problems were not hurting New Roc City.
Even before it opened, however, New Roc had spurred other development in downtown New Rochelle. Avalon Bay Communities, a real estate investment trust, is building 1,000 market-rate rental apartments near the train station -- the first housing of this type in downtown New Rochelle since World War II. Fred Harris, a vice president of Avalon Bay, said the project would not have gone forward without New Roc City.
City officials say the new apartments will have a bigger impact on downtown than New Roc City because they will attract young professionals who have been priced out of the New York City housing market.
Whether New Roc proves successful, planners like the fact that it is surrounded by city sidewalks, not cut off from downtown by a large parking lot. "New Roc City is a great start," said Elliott D. Sclar, the director of the urban planning program at Columbia University. "It's the antithesis of putting a Home Depot in the middle of town."
Other suburban cities are also looking at entertainment as a draw. In densely packed Mount Vernon, Mayor Ernest D. Davis, an architect by training, dreams of creating space for a sports arena and hotel by building a platform over the railroad tracks that run through the center of town. He said the plan was being studied.
Mayor Davis is opposed to putting superstores in the center of downtown. But other communities are hoping that the big boxes will jump-start downtown redevelopment.
A superstore does not necessarily spell the death of mom-and-pop businesses, said N. David Milder, the president of Danth Inc., a consulting company in Queens that helped Englewood formulate its downtown revitalization strategy. But whether the smaller stores can benefit from increased traffic may hinge on whether the rest of downtown is visible and easily accessible to the superstore's customers, he said.
Suburban officials also say they are trying to persuade independent merchants to compete more effectively by staying open later to accommodate commuters or by improving their displays.
In Hempstead, where two-thirds of the population is black or Hispanic, it was considered a coup when the village was able to attract Home Depot to the middle of town, said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. But the Home Depot, the anchor for a shopping center that will also contain an Old Navy clothing store and a supermarket, is behind a parking lot with spaces for 1,300 cars. Customers never have to set foot downtown.
Mayor James A. Garner, however, said the stores near the new shopping center were benefiting from the increased traffic. "It's brought a lot of business in," he said.
In Port Chester, plans for a development along the Byram River drew vehement protests and charges of racism because about 170 homes and businesses, many of them belonging to Hispanics, were relocated to make way for the project, which will include a Costco warehouse store and a Super Stop and Shop .
Officials say the shopping center will be an integral part of the business district, with the stores designed to resemble boutiques. "It will be a mall turned inside out," Mayor Christine Korff said. "The store entrances will face the sidewalks." The project was also supposed to include a Loews Cineplex, but the company recently shelved plans to come to Port Chester.
Port Chester's major asset is its numerous ethnic restaurants, which attract patrons from other parts of Westchester County and southern Connecticut. Joyce M. Lannert, the commissioner of planning for Westchester County, said she expected restaurants to benefit from the project. "Once people go shopping and have a parking space, they might as well try one of the fun restaurants," she said.
But some critics of the plan question whether people shopping at Costco for perishable goods will spend any of their time on downtown streets. Jennifer Kohn, an owner of Kneaded Bread, a two-year-old bakery on Main Street, said she welcomed the increased traffic but wondered whether the new stores would fit in with the restaurants. "Maybe if they put in an artsy theater, it would really go with the mood of the town," she said. "If you want to elevate the town, I don't think this is the way to do it."
Most experts in the so-called new urbanism say reviving a downtown is a painstaking process. "The successful examples," said Mr. Yaro of the Regional Plan Association, "are the ones that developed in a more organic way, that were built around the historic fabric of the town. These things don't happen right away. It takes a vision that is broadly shared and implemented over a decade or more."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Roc City, a $194 million entertainment complex in downtown New Rochelle, N.Y., replaced a decaying mall. The complex draws crowds on weekends, but several nearby storefronts are still empty. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (55%); NEW YORK (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUBURBS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



646 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: An Open Border With Mexico?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In "Visas for Mexican Workers" (editorial, Aug. 24), you qualify the ideas of Vicente Fox, Mexico's president-elect, regarding free labor movement across the open border as "not practical anytime soon."
Such skepticism might derive from a resistance to recognize the contribution of Mexican immigrants to the United States economy. As a 1994 Department of Labor report concludes: 
 "In effect, migrant workers, so necessary for the success of the labor-intensive U.S. agricultural system, subsidize that very system with their own and their families' indigence. The system functions to transfer costs to workers who are left with income so marginal that, for the most part, only newcomers and those with no other options are willing to work on our nation's farms."
If you were to give credence to these findings, Mr. Fox's ideas would not be as premature as you suggest.
JORGE A. BUSTAMANTE
Notre Dame, Ind., Aug. 24, 2000
 
The writer is a professor of sociology at the University of Notre Dame.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (88%); MIGRANT WORKERS (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



647 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 31;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Minor League Ball in Queens: So Far, Everything but Crowds

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
Just before 7 p.m. Friday, George Perez, right-handed pitcher for the Queens Kings, a minor-league baseball team playing in what was, until recently, an exclusively major-league town, strolled into the team's ballpark looking a little forlorn.
He was itching to play, but by now he had to wonder: how many fans would be watching? 
 "The attendance has been kind of poor," Mr. Perez said before heading for the dugout. "But we're new and we didn't know what to expect. We came ready to play, and whatever happens, happens."
As it turned out, Friday night's game, a 9-4 win over the Pittsfield Mets, drew a spirited crowd of 1,390, a respectable turnout for a first-year team with a record of 38-26 that has struggled to attract fans.
Spectators were clustered in groups across the team's temporary 3,500-seat stadium, on the campus of St. John's University in a residential section of Jamaica, Queens. Still, there were rows of empty stands, and the parking lot was less than half full.
"You wish there was a better environment fan-wise," said Frank Insalco, a city police officer who lives in Queens and attended his first minor-league game Friday with his son and daughter. "But I make my own fun, and at this level, it's pure baseball. You don't need that Shea Stadium, Yankee Stadium spectacle. You're here to watch baseball."
Attendance, as low as 600 fans on some nights, has hovered at an average of 930, ranking the team last in attendance among the 14 Class A clubs in the New York-Penn League, according to the latest figures from the Minor League Baseball Association.
(The Staten Island Yankees, a club in the same league as the Kings that started its first season last year, has drawn more fans; crowds have averaged 2,800 so far this season.)
The sparse attendance in Queens came on the same week that the city broke ground on a 6,500-seat ballpark in Coney Island for a minor-league Mets franchise that next season will replace the Queens Kings, now an affiliate of the Toronto Blue Jays. The Pittsfield Mets franchise will move to Brooklyn, and the Queens Kings will no longer exist.
The Coney Island stadium is expected to cost the city $39 million and is fiercely opposed by the Brooklyn borough president, but Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has defended it and a $71 million minor-league ballpark under construction on Staten Island, saying they will help the economy of the two boroughs.
City officials and members of the Queens Kings insist that the low turnout at St. John's is not an indication of the city's appetite for minor-league baseball. At the Coney Island groundbreaking, Mr. Giuliani said that once the Mets farm team had a home in the city, rivalry between it and the Staten Island Yankees would "fuel attendance."
"The possibility of watching future Mets stars will appeal to the people of the city of New York," said Steve Cohen, general manager of the Kings.
The Kings' season began with a series of problems, the biggest of them involving finding a field. At first, the city planned to build a temporary ballpark in Prospect Park in Brooklyn, but a lawsuit and political opposition thwarted that idea. The city then turned to St. John's, but residents and civic groups in the neighborhood also sued to block the stadium.
The Queens lawsuit is still pending, but the case is probably moot with plans for the Coney Island stadium well under way. And with attendance lower than expected, residents' worst fears -- traffic and noise overrunning the quiet nearby neighborhood of Jamaica Estates -- were not realized. The lights and loudspeaker from the stadium have annoyed residents, but life around the stadium on game nights has been a lot quieter than people expected, several residents said.
"Thankfully, for whatever reason, the team hasn't drawn well," said Barry Weinberg, a dentist who lives near the stadium and is chairman of the Jamaica Estates Association.
He added, "What could have happened could have been a complete disaster."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about low attendance at minor league baseball games in Queens and an article on Aug. 23 about opposition to a Coney Island ballpark referred imprecisely to the cost of a minor league stadium under construction on Staten Island. According to the city's budget for the project, the construction of the stadium, the land purchase and the architectural, engineering and management fees are expected to add up to $53.2 million. Other features, including an esplanade and other site enhancements, put the combined cost for the project above $71 million; that is not the cost for the stadium itself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For the Class A Queens Kings, playing at St. John's University in Jamaica, Queens, more seats than fans. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS KINGS (95%); STATEN ISLAND YANKEES (60%); PENN LEAGUE (55%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (82%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (82%); NEW YORK METS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (82%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (82%); NEW YORK METS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); POLICE FORCES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000



648 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: As Mideast Talks of Peace, Soft Voice Urges War

BYLINE: By John F. Burns

DATELINE: GAZA, Aug. 24

 BODY:
As Israel and the Palestinians circle each other in a wary and increasingly fractious quest for a final peace agreement, the spotlight only rarely settles these days on a small, wizened, straggly bearded man in a wheelchair whose antagonism to Israel could one day unsettle or even destroy any deal that establishes a Palestinian state pledged to coexistence with Israel.
 At first glance, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, spiritual leader of the Islamic Resistance Movement, or Hamas, seems an improbable enemy for a peace that would aim at resolving one of the world's most protracted and bitter conflicts. Until he speaks, sketching a future of unremitting warfare until Israel is wiped from the map, there is little about him to suggest that he leads an organization that the United States lists as one of the world's most dangerous, if currently quiescent, terror groups. 
 At 64, Sheik Yassin -- the title is one given in Islam to a man revered for his piety -- is emaciated by the paralysis he suffered in a teenage accident on a Gaza beach. His hearing is deeply impaired by infections he blames on the 10 years he spent in Israeli prisons before his release in October 1997. He dresses in the all-white of an Islamic holy man, and speaks in such a tiny voice that even aides have to lean close to understand what he is saying.
 But what he says, and his ability to turn words into action, could hardly be more important to the long-term prospects for Middle East peace. Even if Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, overcome deep differences over Jerusalem and other issues that confounded attempts to reach a peace pact at last month's Camp David summit meeting, Sheik Yassin and the Islamic resistance could remain the wild card of regional politics, their unreconciled hatred for Israel a threat to destabilize peace. The words have hardly changed, not since Sheik Yassin, responding to the new mood of defiance represented by the street uprising among Palestinians known as the intifada, emerged from decades of Islamic devotions to found Hamas in 1987. "I believe completely that Israel will vanish, and that we Palestinians will recover the lands and homes that were stolen from us in 1948," he said. Extrapolating from predictions of disaster for the Jews he says he has drawn from inferences in the Koran, he added: "I've said it before, I'll say it again, the year 2027 will see the end of the state of Israel."
But whether this is the vow of a zealot whose time has passed, of an embittered man who lost his family's lands in a village, Al-Jura, that was on the Mediterranean coast near what is now the Israeli town of Ashkelon in 1948, or the resolve of a charismatic leader with a charter that will one day plunge the region into a renewed round of bombings and assassinations, may depend on how the eddying forces of Palestinian politics resolve.
 As part of the 1993 Oslo accords that began the peace effort, Mr. Arafat pledged to help uproot Palestinian terrorism, but his record has been mixed. No outsider can really know whether Mr. Arafat and Sheik Yassin are irreconcilable adversaries, the good-cop-bad-cop act of Palestinian politics, or as Israeli intelligence officials believe, a complex and shifting amalgam of both.
 In an extended interview at his office on the Gaza beachfront, ended only by the muezzin's call to prayfrom a local mosque, the signals were conflicting.
 On one hand, Sheik Yassin complained vigorously that Mr. Arafat was holding about 300 activists from Hamas and an associated group, Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy War, in jail, in addition to 1,500 others who are prisoners of the Israelis. He also spoke of the 10 weeks he spent under house arrest in Gaza in 1998, under Mr. Arafat's orders, after an abortive Hamas attempt to blow up a school bus near the Jewish settlement of Kfar Darom in Gaza.
 Sheik Yassin said Mr. Arafat's intelligence apparatus had voided 175 separate attacks against Israeli targets that had been planned by Hamas's military wing, the Ezzadin al-Qassem Brigade, in recent years. This, he implied, explained why there had been few attacks in Israel and around the Jewish settlements in Gaza and the West Bank since the chaotic years from 1994 to 1996, when a spate of suicide bombings and kidnappings by Hamas and Islamic Jihad killed scores of Israelis. At that time, Mr. Arafat was just beginning to assert his authority in the first blocks of territory ceded to the Palestinians under the Oslo accords.
 Against this, there was much to suggest that Sheik Yassin and Mr. Arafat recognize that they need each other. Mr. Arafat's Palestinian Authority recently permitted Hamas to set up its Gaza headquarters only a few hundred yards down Gaza's beachfront road from Mr. Arafat's "presidential" offices. And much about the new Hamas offices suggests that it has no need to pretend it lives in the shadows.
 The simple offices are sandwiched between the Dolphin bar and the Al-Jojo fishing tackle shop. The prayer room used by Sheik Yassin has an open portal looking out over the pounding Mediterranean surf, and there are no armed guards outside. When Sheik Yassin leaves, he travels in an expensive Range Rover, adapted to take the Islamic leader's wheelchair, which the sheik's aides said was given to him by Mr. Arafat.
 When Sheik Yassin was asked when he last met Mr. Arafat, he said he had invited him to dinner at his Gaza home three months ago. "Of course, we talked politics," he said. "Politics is our bread and water."
 Personally, he said he considered Mr. Arafat brave, if misguided. "He has tried to restore our rights, but if he can't, he should step aside and allow others to try," Sheik Yassin said. "If he recognizes the state of Israel, he will have given away our rights to our 1948 lands, and he will have gone from leading our resistance to defending our enemy."
 At this point, Sheik Yassin's words turned menacing, at least for Mr. Arafat, suggesting another reason why Mr. Arafat has chosen, until now, not to have any final showdown with Hamas. At the Camp David talks, the sheik said, Mr. Arafat appeared to have toed the ultimate "red line" in Palestinian politics -- finalizing a deal that, in return for mutual recognition by Israel and a Palestinian state, would have given Israel the prize sought since 1948, acceptance of its right to live on lands taken from Palestinians in Israel's independence war.
 "Arafat is in a very critical situation -- he can't move forward, and he can't move back," he said. "He's reached the logical conclusion of his policy of negotiating with the Israelis, and he's reached a dead end, unless he makes concessions that would be fatal for him. I only hope, for his sake, that he can get himself out of this situation, without giving up any Palestinian rights, without sacrificing our future for the sake of the Zionist entity."
 On a blindingly hot summer's day that had many of the 1.1 million Palestinians of Gaza sheltering in the shadows, there was much else to suggest that Hamas and its rejectionist politics are far from having exhausted their future, especially among the young. Conversations with several people produced only a minority -- many with links to Mr. Arafat's apparatus -- who said they would accept, as part of a final peace settlement with Israel, a renunciation of the "1948 lands" -- a phrase used in Gaza and the West Bank.
 A merchant selling gold trinkets from a hand cart in the bazaar, a well-known editor, a schoolteacher, an 18-year-old youth kicking a football along the beach, a cashier selling stationery, a food shop owner -- all dismissed the notion that Palestinians would settle permanently for a state in Gaza and the West Bank, and a foothold in Jerusalem, except as a way station to a fuller reckoning with Israel later.
 The strongest support for Hamas, now as before, comes from those living in refugee camps, perhaps as many as two-thirds of the Gaza population. These are people who live in Gaza City, Rafah and other towns, in squalid neighborhoods with unpaved roads, inadequate electricity, water and sanitation, and chronic unemployment that have condemned three generations in the same families to poverty. The camps are divided into neighborhoods, named for the towns and villages in pre-1948 Palestine.
 In Rafah, at the southern end of the Gaza Strip, when a visitor asked Ahmed Da'abes, age 16, where he was from, he answered without a pause, "Yibna" -- a predominantly Palestinian town before 1948, now the Israeli town of Yavne, 10 miles south of Tel Aviv. And what did Ahmed think of Mr. Arafat? "Well, you know very well the kind of leaders we have now," he said. "If our leaders were from the Islamic movement, we would be sure that we would one day have Yibna back."
 The message is one that needs no underscoring in Israel. Organizations like Shin Bet, the internal security agency, have never relented in their hunt for Islamic militants, and have scored some chilling successes. In January 1996, a cell phone doctored by Shin Bet exploded in the hands of Yehiya Ayash, the leader of the al-Qassem brigade, killing him. His successor, Mohammed Dief, was arrested in Gaza in May this year, and is being held in an Israeli jail.
 This week, Shin Bet announced that a joint operation between its agents and Mr. Arafat's in Israel, Gaza and the West Bank had resulted in the roundup of 23 Islamic activists involved in planning terror bombings and other attacks, including one Gaza man, Nabil Okal, 27, said to have been sent by Hamas for training in a camp in Pakistan run by Osama bin Laden, the Saudi-born terrorist leader.
 Last month, another Shin Bet operation resulted in the seizure of an alleged Hamas armory in the West Bank town of Nablus, where agents were said to have found one of the largest stores of weapons and bomb-making equipment seized in years. The two swoops appeared to have been behind a new State Department advisory issued 10 days ago warning Americans of an increased risk of terrorist attacks in Israel, and might have prompted a similar warning given this week by Mr. Barak.
 Three years ago, Sheik Yassin said his organization would consider a "truce" with Israel if it abandoned all claims to Gaza, the West Bank and Jerusalem, and released all Palestinian prisoners. But in the interview in Gaza City, he said that the offer was now void, as Israel had rejected it. Asked whether this would not condemn young Palestinians to an endless, bloody fight against a nation that is heavily armed and trained, he smiled, as if he had heard such foolishness a thousand times.
 "I have the strength of a man who is ready to fight and die for the liberation of his land, who doesn't need aircraft and tanks and atomic bombs," he said. "How can Israel resist people who are prepared to die as martyrs?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheik Ahmed Yassin, spiritual leader of Hamas, in noon prayers at the group's headquarters in Gaza. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Sheik Yassin and aides in their Gaza offices with a mural of Jerusalem's Dome of the Rock. Hamas refuses a truce in Mideast hostilities. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Map of Israel highlighting Gaza: The Hamas headquarters in Gaza are near Yasir Arafat's offices. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PEACE PROCESS (92%); RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HAMAS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); TERRORISM (71%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (71%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2000



649 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Global Calm Prevails, But Is It Deceptive?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WHEN central bankers and economists from around the world gathered here two years ago for the annual conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the worldwide economic outlook was bleak.
 
 Russia's finances were melting down. Asia was in a tailspin. Latin America's stability was at risk. Though no one had yet noticed, one of the world's biggest hedge funds was imploding. Even the ever-resilient American economy was under threat.
 In many ways, the atmosphere here over the last several days at this year's Fed conference on global economic integration could not have been more different. The global financial crisis of a few years ago has given way to general stability and renewed growth. With the partial exception of Japan, the big industrial nations are prosperous. Most of the developing world is rebounding. Financial markets, while still bearing the scars of 1998, are healthy if not robust.
 Yet there was an undercurrent of nervousness in much of the discussion here, and not because of the forest fires burning just a few miles away from this scenic resort. It seemed driven by a sense that while the last crisis had passed without much permanent harm, another might well be on the way, and that there was still no clear prescription for dealing with it.
 Paul Krugman of Princeton University presented a paper to the conference saying that economists were suffering from "persistent if low-grade anxiety" about the world economy, and said that one of the by-products of increased economic integration among countries would be more frequent financial crises.
 Michael Mussa, director of research at the International Monetary Fund, felt compelled to ask whether the world was about to lapse back into isolationism and nationalism. And although his answer was no, the very fact that he raised the question suggested that policy makers had been shaken by the widespread protests in the last year over free trade and the threat it posed to labor and environmental standards.
 EVEN Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, bemoaned the lack of progress in breaking down the remaining trade barriers among nations, and warned that support for globalization could erode the next time the economy hits a rough patch.
 It was certainly not news to anyone here, including Mr. Greenspan, that globalization carries risks and costs as well as undeniable advantages. The issue is what we have learned from the experience of recent years about how to minimize the chances of a problem erupting or to deal with it effectively once it has.
 Mr. Krugman, who also writes an Op-Ed Page column for The New York Times, told the meeting that economists have not even come to any consensus about what caused the troubles that began in Asia in 1997, much less worked out a new global financial architecture or crisis-response playbook.
 Most economists and policy makers here agree that high levels of short-term borrowings in foreign currencies by companies contributed greatly to the travails in Asian nations like Thailand. When local currencies collapsed, the repayment terms of these loans rapidly became prohibitive. Companies went bankrupt and economics spiraled downward in defiance of the beneficial effects that a cheaper currency is usually expected to have on exports. With the economy deteriorating, capital took flight, particularly as foreign lenders refused to roll over loans and took their money home.
 Why not try to block this kind of death spiral in the future by restricting capital flight? The policy makers and economists gathered here, by and large a avidly free-market bunch, could not quite swallow their distaste for limiting the mobility of money across borders, although Charles Goodhart of the London School of Economics suggested that there might be an ideologically acceptable compromise in using bank regulation, rather than outright capital controls, as a brake on the rapid withdrawal of funds from an economy.
 IN any case, the last crisis may not hold any lessons for the next crisis, whatever it might be.
 A paper by Maurice Obstfeld of the University of California at Berkeley and Kenneth Rogoff of Harvard suggested that the next big international economic problem could arise close to home.
 They studied the large and rising current account deficit in the United States - 4.3 percent of gross domestic product this year, up from an average of 1.7 percent from 1992 to 1998.
 They concluded that a reversal of the current account position, a development they said was inevitable within the next 5 to 10 years, would entail a drastic change in the relative value of the dollar, forcing a depreciation of as much as 45 percent if the turn-about was abrupt or 12 percent if the turn-about proved more orderly.
 But the somewhat disconcerting sense among the economic elite gathered here was that they are even less able to foresee the future than to understand and draw lessons from the past. As Mr. Greenspan put it, "our past endeavors at long-term forecasting afford us little confidence in being able to anticipate seminal changes in global economics and finance." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); FOREST FIRES (67%); FIRES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2000



650 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton and Lazio Again Debate Their Dueling Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR

DATELINE: NYACK, N.Y., Aug. 26

 BODY:
The debate over the tax cut plans of Representative Rick A Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton continued today, with Mrs. Clinton calling Mr. Lazio's proposal "fiscally irresponsible" and saying that it was likely to increase the national debt.
 
 Mr. Lazio, meanwhile, said Mrs. Clinton's plan was not in the best interest of New Yorkers.
 Speaking before a group of Democratic women at the Nyack Center, a community center, Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic candidate for Senate from New York, portrayed herself as a key member of the Clinton administration team that reduced the national debt. She tried to tie Mr. Lazio to conservative Republicans in Congress who had proposed large tax cuts.
 Today was the first day that Mrs. Clinton herself directly criticized Mr. Lazio's tax plan. In the last few days, Mrs. Clinton's aides have criticized Mr. Lazio's proposal to use a projected $4.4 trillion, 10-year federal budget surplus to cut taxes.
 The centerpiece of the plan, which Mr. Lazio outlined Thursday in a speech in Amherst, would allow tax-payers to deduct from their federal income taxes the payroll tax, which finances Social Security.
 After a speech here today, Mrs. Clinton said she believed that the Lazio plan would waste the surplus and stifle the economic boom.
 "Mr. Lazio has a tax plan that is fiscally irresponsible and the numbers don't add up," she said. "It's not going to give one penny to prescription drug benefits, Medicare or putting down the debt, things I've supported."
 Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Lazio's proposal mirrored many of those advocated by House Republicans when Newt Gingrich was the House speaker.
 "This is right out of the Newt Gingrich, George W. Bush Republican playbook," Mrs. Clinton said.
 But the Lazio campaign defended its plan today, saying that it would actually bring prosperity to blighted areas of the state. "Mrs. Clinton doesn't trust New Yorkers and believes only Washington bureaucrats know how to spend our hard-earned money," Mr. Lazio said in a statement.
 Mrs. Clinton's plan would trim taxes by $496 billion over 10 years, and include a cut in the so-called marriage penalty, but not eliminate it.
 On Thursday, Mr. Lazio, who has been a congressman from Suffolk County for eights years, said his proposal would include a menu of tax cuts long advocated by Congressional Republicans, among them the elimination of the inheritance tax and the marriage penalty. Mr. Lazio's speech came in a week that George W. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, was forced to defend his $1.3 trillion federal tax cut proposal.
 Mr. Lazio said his plan would result in $776 billion in tax cuts over 10 years. It was meant to distance himself from the Bush plan, while still advocating more reductions than Mrs. Clinton did. But Clinton campaign aides said that because of an error in calculations, Mr. Lazio's plan would actually produce $1.24 trillion in cuts, rather than the $776 billion he cited.
 Organizers of Mrs. Clinton's appearance here said the event was hastily put together over the last five days to help shore up support among female voters.
 Recent polls have shown that Mrs. Clinton is not doing well among white women, though her support among black women reamins strong. Only local women were invited to today's event, organizers said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ESTATE PLANNING (74%); INCOME TAX (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (69%); MEDICARE (67%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); MARRIAGE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2000



651 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: The Poor Among Us

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Bob Herbert did not have to travel to Los Angeles to find a working poor family in the grip of stifling poverty (column, Aug. 21). Walk into any homeless shelter here in New York City, and you'll find men and women working at low-wage jobs, unable to afford rents in this booming economy. Walk into a city hospital's emergency room, and you'll see working families without health insurance relying on the hospital for their primary care. 
 A minimum-wage increase is only one part of the equation. We also need welfare reform that doesn't rely on make-work programs but instead offers people an opportunity for real skill-building and jobs that provide a ladder up. Universal health care is essential, as is a commitment to the construction of affordable housing.
 
ARNOLD S. COHEN
Pres., Partnership for the Homeless
New York, Aug. 21, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS UNIVERSAL HEALTH NETWORK (56%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (83%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (83%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE HOMELESSNESS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (88%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (88%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (87%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ARNOLD S; HERBERT, BOB BOB HERBERT (60%); ARNOLD S COHEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



652 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data;
A San Francisco Company Learns What a Mayor Can Do for Business

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
More than 750 local governments now use the Web site operated by NetClerk to put the construction-permit process online. But so far, only the mayor of San Francisco, Willie L. Brown, has become part of NetClerk's advertising campaign.
Last week, NetClerk put a picture of Mr. Brown and the city's seal on www.netclerk.com, the company's Web site, along with a letter the mayor had written praising the company for, among other things, helping reduce lines at city hall. 
 So far, NetClerk's PermitCentral service has been used to issue more than 1,000 building permits in San Francisco.
"Although we enjoy interacting with each and every person who comes to city hall, waiting in line may not be the best use of a contractor's time," the mayor wrote.
The letter may have been less than a spontaneous testimonial. Jon Fisher, founder of NetClerk, said the company began discussing a "public relations partnership" with the San Francisco's mayor's office about a month ago.
So how does a letterhead partnership play out?
"The city of San Francisco is well known for its forward thinking, technological savvy," the mayor wrote. "NetClerk offers a perfect example of how technology can improve a current system to the satisfaction of all parties involved."
For Mayor Brown, of course, the satisfaction comes from bolstering his image as a technology supporter and promoter of the Bay Area's high-technology economy.
As it happens, NetClerk, based in South San Francisco, is part of that economy. LAURIE J. FLYNN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A letter from Willie L. Brown, mayor of San Francisco, appears on NetClerk's Web site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SFH (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NETCLERK BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NETCLERK

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LOCAL GOVERNMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET BUILDING PERMITS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WEB SITES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J WILLIE L BROWN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



653 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
The German auction of wireless networks uncovered deep fissures in the European telecommunications landscape.

BYLINE: By Edmund L. Andrews 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
IT was a free-market contest of the purest sort, an airwave auction of the kind pioneered in the United States and taken to dizzying new heights in Europe.
Yet ever since the bidding ended 11 days ago in Germany's auction of wireless licenses for so-called third-generation mobile networks, even devoted market enthusiasts have started to wonder if this is really the most rational way to go. 
 After two weeks and 173 rounds of bidding, six companies had bid a total $46 billion for the rights to one license apiece. And that total did not include an additional $4 billion or so that each company would have to spend to build the new networks and drum up customers.
Investors have been reeling, dumping the stocks of all the winners: Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone AirTouch of Britain, British Telecommunications, France Telecom, Telefonica of Spain and Sonera of Finland.
Standard & Poor's, the credit-rating agency, warned that it would probably lower most of the companies' credit ratings and might even drop some to the triple-B level, not much better than junk-bond status. Bond investors are bracing for a flood of gigantic telephone bond offerings, but the uncertainties were high enough that British Telecommunications postponed an offering last week until its rating was clarified.
Certainly, wireless opportunities are immense. Europe is well ahead of the United States in rolling out digital wireless telephones, and the new licenses will be used to offer high-speed data communications that are eventually expected to galvanize mobile electronic commerce.
As envisioned, the new third-generation mobile networks will enable people to surf the Internet from a sidewalk, download video clips onto their hand-held phones or simply locate a nearby restaurant and book a table.
But no one knows what consumers will really want or how much they will be ready to pay. And because the new systems will increase competition in ordinary mobile phone service, analysts predict that prices and profitability in voice service will decline sharply.
Most economists argue that risks are simply part of the game. If companies overbid, they may have to fold tent and sell their licenses to someone else at a loss. The world will go on.
But the German auctions also uncovered deep fissures in the European telecommunications landscape that make the entire playing field uneven.
Britain, Germany and the Netherlands have all held auctions, won by a variety of European players. But Spain and Finland, using a so-called beauty contest approach, simply awarded licenses to companies deemed most worthy. The licenses, granted primarily to domestic applicants, came at a fraction of the price they might have fetched at auction. France will hold a beauty contest, too, but will charge a flat fee of about $4 billion a license.
Some executives complain that companies from countries with very low license costs can save billions at home and then plow the money into auctions elsewhere.
"We don't have a level playing field in Europe," said Hans Ehnert, a spokesman for Deutsche Telekom. "We had to compete in the bidding against companies like Telefonica from Spain, but we were excluded from the Spanish market."
The idea of auctioning off the airwaves was pioneered in the early 1990's in the United States, where economists and government officials alike viewed them as the fairest and most efficient way of allocating the public airwaves.
The auction approach developed after governments handed out the first cellular licenses in the 1980's, when companies paid nothing to receive what soon became hugely profitable franchises that grew at explosive rates. By forcing companies to pay the government top dollar, governments and taxpayers would be able to reap at least some of the bonanza.
Indeed, the German government's auction windfall is so big that the largess has ignited a major political battle over what to do with the money.
Advocates of auctions also argue that they are the most effective way to put licenses in the hands of those most likely to use them profitably. Compared with beauty contests, auctions give the participants no opportunity to exploit political connections or bedazzle government bureaucrats with lofty promises that can later be broken.
"In a beauty contest, there is no way to ensure that a decision is based on objective facts," said Torsten Gerpott, a professor of economics at the University of Duisberg in Germany, who has closely studied the issue. "Look at France," he said. "I would bet that at least three of the licenses are awarded to local players."
By any measure, both the British and German auctions were open. But one of the surprise winners in the German auction -- a bidder that Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone both tried and failed to eliminate -- was a group controlled by Telefonica of Spain and Sonera of Finland.
The Spanish and Finnish companies had received new wireless licenses at negligible costs from their own governments.
Deutsche Telekom bid for a license earlier this year in Spain, where the license fees were relative peanuts: about $130 million and 0.15 percent of future revenues. Deutsche Telekom teamed up in the beauty contest with Jazztel, a fast-growing Spanish competitor to Telefonica, but the team lost to three Spanish operators and a fourth group led by Vivendi of France.
As for Finland, Pirjo Kekalainen-Torvinen, Sonera's senior vice president for international business development, said her company had not unfairly benefited by getting a Finnish license almost free. "We paid as much for our license in Germany as anybody else," she said.
She noted that Finland had strong policy reasons for awarding wireless licenses as cheaply as possible. Finland, which is home to the world's biggest producer of wireless phones, Nokia, considers wireless technology its biggest national industry. By giving out next-generation wireless licenses as quickly and cheaply as possible, government officials hope to promote and indirectly subsidize innovative new technology and services.
Many industry executives blame Deutsche Telekom itself for the high prices of the German licenses. Gerhard Schmid, chief executive of Mobilcom, a German company that teamed up with France Telecom and did win a license, angrily complained that the six final bidders could have ended up with the same licenses and saved billions of dollars if they had simply stopped bidding four days earlier.
Mr. Schmid blamed Deutsche Telekom for a misguided attempt to outbid the Spanish-Finnish group for an extra license, a move that would have reduced the number of rivals from six to five.
But Telefonica and Sonera refused to give up, and Deutsche Telekom exececutives capitulated after the total bidding had climbed from 30 billion euros ($27.1 billion) to 50.5 billion euros. The result was higher license prices and more licensees than most investors had been expecting.
To be sure, investors pummeled shares of Sonera and Telefonica even more than they did those of Deutsche Telekom. Yet when Italy begins auctions later this year, Deutsche Telekom plans to stay out, saying it has no interest in Italy. But Telefonica and Sonera, exuberant after their German adventure, plan to team up again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (93%); FTE (NYSE) (93%); FTE (BIT) (93%); DTE (FRA) (90%); DTE (BIT) (90%); VOD (NASDAQ) (90%); VOD (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FINLAND (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NETHERLANDS (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%); 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (93%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (90%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (90%); TELEFONICA OF SPAIN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEFONICA OF SPAIN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; NETHERLANDS; SPAIN; FRANCE; FINLAND; GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FINLAND (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NETHERLANDS (73%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; AUCTIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); WIRELESS REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); 3G WIRELESS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); MOBILE COMMERCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BOND ISSUES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



654 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Report Questions a Number in Microsoft Trial

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 27

 BODY:
How many applications dance on the head of a hard drive?
In his antitrust ruling against Microsoft, federal Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson argued that a crucial barrier confronting the company's potential competitors are the 70,000 programs written to run solely on the Windows operating system. 
 The judge made his ruling, in April, based on trial testimony about the number of Windows programs -- testimony that was not disputed by Microsoft. The judge concluded that the vast library of Windows-based programs discourage competitors and make the possibility of competing against Microsoft impractical. At issue are so-called application programs -- word processors, spreadsheets, personal-finance software and the like -- that run on top of the Windows operating system.
But an economist who has surveyed the personal computer software market contends that the 70,000 figure is grossly overstated. There are probably fewer than 10,000 Windows programs in use today and most users probably have no more than a handful on their computers, according to the economist, Richard B. McKenzie, a conservative scholar at the University of California at Irvine.
The lower figure indicates that Microsoft is not the impregnable fortress depicted in the antitrust trial, Mr. McKenzie writes in a paper that presents the results of his survey.
The paper is to be published this week by the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group based in Washington. Mr. McKenzie also recently published "Trust on Trial: How the Microsoft Case Is Reframing the Rules of Competition," a book that attacks the Justice Department's antitrust case.
In his paper, Mr. McKenzie contends that Microsoft may have contributed to the misconception when it claimed in marketing and advertising materials in 1997 that as many as 100,000 programs existed for the Windows operating system.
 "It seems that their marketing behavior has come back to bite them," Mr. McKenzie said in an interview.
He said he had embarked on his research after failing to find any documentation to support a contention made during the trial by John Rose, a Compaq Computer executive and Microsoft witness, that the 70,000 applications were the reason that Compaq shipped Windows with its computers.
"I was shocked," by the claim, Mr. McKenzie recalled. After failing to find documentation for the claim and conducting a survey, he said he asked the company why it had not challenged the figure.
 He said Microsoft executives told him that they did not wish to undermine the credibility of their witness. "They were between a rock and a hard place," he said.
The 70,000 figure might actually represent the number of applications that have been written during the entire history of the personal computer industry, he said. Or it may be an exaggeration based on the fact that many software programs go through multiple versions during their life spans.
 "Amazon lists only 8,301 'software programs' under its productivity software categories," Mr. McKenzie writes in his paper, titled "Microsoft's Applications Barrier to Entry: The Missing 70,000 Programs."
"That is a large number," the paper continues, "but it counts programs written for all available operating systems, including Red Hat Linux, IBM OS/2, and Apple Mac, as well as Microsoft Windows. Many of the software programs are also listed several times in the various subcategories."
A Microsoft spokesman said that, despite Mr. McKenzie's analysis, the company believed that the larger number cited by the Compaq witness and by the judge were accurate.
Mr. McKenzie draws a different lesson. Because there are actually only a few crucial programs used by most PC users -- like Microsoft Office -- the company's applications business, he said, should be vulnerable to a program like StarOffice, which is being distributed free by Sun Microsystems. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JUDGES (90%); WITNESSES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (74%); LITIGATION (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: MCKENZIE, RICHARD B; MARKOFF, JOHN; JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE) RICHARD B MCKENZIE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



655 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report;
Internet companies learn how to personalize service.

BYLINE: By Susan Stellin 

 BODY:
ASK a handful of Internet executives to define the term "personalization," and invariably the conversation turns to the analogy of a shopkeeper who knows not only his customers' names, but how much they can afford to spend and what size shirt they wear.
Never mind that most Americans shop at retail chains where, if they happen to be greeted by a clerk, they are more likely than not to respond, "Thanks, I'm just looking." This old-fashioned ideal of personalized service -- albeit, updated with new economy motives -- is the next hurdle for Internet companies trying to achieve profitability in an increasingly competitive environment. 
 What this means in practice is that rather than displaying the same set of pages to every visitor, a Web site would present different information to each customer based on the person's data profile. A person who has shown online interest in classical music might be presented with a special price on Bach compact discs, whereas someone who has bought a Britney Spears CD might be offered a discount on N'Sync.
This type of personalized experience, alternatively described as "one to one marketing" or "targeted merchandising," has long been touted as one of the key benefits of the Web. But so far, very few Internet companies have been able to take advantage of this potential, mainly because the technologies for delivering it are still in the early stages of development.
That said, the industry is gradually catching up to the hype surrounding personalization, as a growing number of companies have installed tools enabling them to present customized Web pages -- if not to a single individual, then at least to groups that have been identified as having a similar profile. This trend is going to raise the ante for companies doing business online, both in terms of investors' and customers' expectations. It is also going to raise new privacy issues concerning what type of information is collected about consumers and how that data is used -- worries that could overshadow any benefits that customers stand to derive from these services.
To be sure, some degree of personalization has existed for years online, most notably through sites like Yahoo or Excite, which allow members to create a page that displays information based on preferences they have entered, like stock symbols or categories of news. In the ever-changing industry vernacular, however, that type of service is now referred to as "customization," whereas the techniques known as "personalization" are based on information companies have more discreetly gathered about consumers, like their purchase history or the Web pages they have viewed.
Cormac Foster, an analyst at the research firm Jupiter Communications, said the difference involves explicit versus implicit data. "Customization is giving users what they've told you they want," he said, "and personalization is anticipating what they want."
The ability to deliver personalized services involves a complex process, generally requiring an investment in hardware and software that can cost from several hundred thousand to several million dollars.
First, a company must integrate disparate sources of data, like its product list, its customer database and a record of the pages on its Web site those customers have viewed. Once that data is integrated, analysis tools from companies like E.Piphany and Broadbase Software can be used to look for patterns of behavior. Using those patterns, marketers set rules telling the system to give a certain treatment to a particular category of customers. Those rules, in turn, are processed by so-called content delivery systems offered by companies like the ATG Group and BroadVision that are responsible for putting the selected information on the screens of the right customers.
One of the challenges for companies setting up personalization systems, Mr. Foster said, is that they generally have to work with a number of different vendors. And in some cases, companies that have experimented with early technologies have already had to replace those systems. "Part of the problem," he said, "is all the technologies are fairly immature."
Not surprisingly, one of the leaders in the personalization arena is Amazon.com, which began its efforts in 1997 with a "book matcher" feature. To use that feature, customers had to fill out a form indicating their interests, and the system would match them with books tailored to their entries. The problem with that feature, according to Josh Petersen, Amazon's director of personalization, was that it required too much work on the user's part.
"You wouldn't have had to walk into a store of old and fill out a questionnaire," Mr. Petersen said.
As a result, Amazon focused its efforts on building a system based on implicit data, like a customer's past purchases, which now feeds into the site's "New for You" and "Recommendations" features. Using technology primarily developed by Amazon, these services recommend products to customers based on algorithms that take into account factors like the ratings a customer has assigned various products on the site and the purchasing patterns of customers with similar profiles.
To reduce the impact of errant data, Amazon allows users to exclude certain purchases from their profile; that way, a Pokemon game purchased for a niece will not skew a pattern of buying mystery novels and Woody Allen videos. The system also makes some automatic assumptions, like excluding gift-wrapped items.
Despite the advances the company has made, Mr. Petersen said Amazon still had a long way to go before meeting the company's goal of creating a unique store for every customer who visits the site. "It's one of the hardest engineering tasks that we work on," he said.
John Samuel, vice president of interactive marketing for AMR's American Airlines, would be the first to agree that current implementations of personalization technologies are still in their infancy. American overhauled its AA.com Web site in 1998, with a new version that allows the site to present pages that have been tailored for each individual.
Mr. Samuel said the company had a head start in its personalization efforts because of its AAdvantage frequent-flier program, which has gathered information about 40 million members. American uses that information, as well as data collected from customers who fill out a profile online, to tailor the offers that customers see when they visit the company's Web site.
"For us, that translates to knowing someone is in college versus knowing someone is retired or often flies business class," Mr. Samuel said. "The communication to those customers should be very different."
The business customer, for example, might be presented with information about upgrades or American's Admirals Club, whereas the college student would be shown special offers for travel during school vacations. In addition, American targets information based on a customer's home airport and preferred destinations.
In this respect, Mr. Samuel said, American has been careful to err on the side of being explicit about collecting data, which is why the company asks customers to fill out a profile, even if that information is easy to deduce from an individual's travel history.
"It would not be hard for us to infer a customer's home airport," he said. "But we still ask on the Web site."
The challenge for American Airlines and other companies experimenting with this level of personalization will be negotiating a delicate balance between providing consumers with services and offers they want, and appearing to know too much and risk scaring those customers away.
"We know a lot, and our customers know we know a lot," Mr. Samuels said. The question is, "What permission do we have from the customer to use that knowledge?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Wald recently bought a pair of garden shears through Amazon.com, which has developed technology that uses a customer's past purchases to recommend other products. (Daniel Sheehan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC AMAZON.COM INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (92%); RETAILERS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); TRENDS (69%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); 

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN BRITNEY SPEARS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



656 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: DaimlerChrysler to Expand Its Production in Alabama

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 27

 BODY:
DaimlerChrysler plans to announce on Monday that it will nearly double production in Alabama, adding another assembly line close to the site where it already builds M-Class sport utility vehicles, auto industry officials and consultants said over the weekend.
The Mercedes-Benz unit of DaimlerChrysler said on Friday that it would hold a news conference on Monday in Tuscaloosa, Ala., the nearest large city to its sport utility vehicle factory in Vance. The planned construction project is the latest sign that Alabama's auto industry is growing. Honda has just begun building a minivan factory near Vance, too. 
 DaimlerChrysler declined to comment on what the factory would produce. But auto industry consultants working for automakers and auto parts suppliers said that the company would make a so-called crossover vehicle that would combine the features of a minivan and the M-Class sport utility vehicle.
Whether the planned Mercedes project represents a new assembly plant or an expansion of the existing one will likely be the subject of some debate. State officials in Alabama began praising the project on Friday as a new plant. But there is no consensus among automakers over whether adding a second assembly line represents a second plant or an expansion of an existing one.
Because the second assembly line will produce a vehicle similar to the M-Class, it is likely to work closely with the existing assembly plant and receive shipments of many of the same parts. "I'd put it more in terms of expansion" of the existing factory, rather than a second, independent assembly plant, said an auto industry manager who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The Birmingham News reported that Mercedes would receive $150 million in state incentives for the new operation and that it would create 1,750 jobs. Mercedes received $235 million in incentives for the existing factory.
It will be to DaimlerChrysler's advantage to portray the new operation as an entire assembly plant to people in Alabama, where the company has been seeking tax breaks and other assistance, while portraying it in Michigan as an expansion of the existing operation. The United Automobile Workers union, which represents workers of the former Chrysler Corporation, has been unable to organize workers at the factory in Vance, and there is considerable nervousness among workers and state officials in Michigan about the pace of automakers' expansion in the South.
The U.A.W. declined today to comment on DaimlerChrysler's plans. Although DaimlerChrysler has publicly declared its neutrality on the question of whether the current assembly plant should be organized, union officials have complained over the last year that the company has remained hostile. Local businesses in the Vance area have tried to rally factory workers against the U.A.W., fearing that if the union is successful, that might discourage further investment in the area. The U.A.W. has not insisted on an actual vote at the factory on whether to unionize, fearing that it might lose.
Michael E. Robinet, the director of forecast services at CSM Worldwide, a big auto production consulting firm based in Northville, Mich., said over the weekend that Mercedes would change the M-Class sport utility vehicle considerably several years from now and then use the underbody from the new model to build a similar vehicle at an adjacent site.
The current M-Class uses a stiff, heavy underbody like that of a pickup truck, which made it cheap to develop but also gives a bumpy ride. Mr. Robinet said that Mercedes would switch to a lighter, car-like underbody for the next generation of M-Class vehicles.
Automakers are increasingly combining the features of sport utility vehicles with those of cars and minivans, using car-like underbodies for better handling, fuel economy and safety. Examples include the Lexus RX-300 sport utility vehicle and the new Pontiac Aztek and Ford Escape. Because these vehicles still look mostly like sport utilities on the outside, automakers have been successful, with few exceptions, in persuading regulators that these crossover vehicles are still eligible for the more lenient safety, air pollution and fuel economy standards that apply to light trucks, instead of the more stringent standards applied to cars. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA; VANCE (ALA); UNITED STATES (97%); ALABAMA, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; ORGANIZED LABOR MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (91%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); JOB CREATION (68%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



657 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Assembly Line to Be Added At Daimler Plant in Alabama
DaimlerChrysler plans to announce today that it will nearly double production in Alabama, adding another assembly line close to the site where it already builds Mercedes M-Class sport utility vehicles, auto industry officials and consultants said over the weekend.
Auto industry consultants and auto parts suppliers said that the company would make a so-called crossover vehicle that would combine the features of a minivan and the M-Class sport utility vehicle. Page C2. 

Offer Is Seen for London Exchange
OM Gruppen, which runs the Stockholm stock exchange, is expected to make a formal offer, which could include a hostile bid, for the London Stock Exchange, which rejected an informal $1.18 billion offer last week, executives close to the discussions said. C2.
 
A Mayor Backs a Web Business
More than 750 local governments use the Web site operated by NetClerk to put the construction-permit process online. But so far, only the mayor of San Francisco, Willie L. Brown, has become part of NetClerk's advertising campaign. Last week, NetClerk put a picture of Mr. Brown and the city's seal on its Web site, www.netclerk.com, along with a letter the mayor had written praising the company for, among other things, helping reduce lines at city hall. C4.
 
Sprint in a Wireless Joint Venture
Sprint's wireless unit and the Internet incubator Ecompanies plan to announce a venture today to finance start-up companies in wireless communications. The venture, Ecompanies Wireless, will receive a $15 million investment from Spint's wireless unit, Sprint PCS. C8.
 
Morgan Stanley Revamps Its Ads
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter may still measure success one investor at a time, but in a new ad campaign starting this week, its brokerage unit is dropping the slogan it has used for more than a decade and is centering its $150 million advertising budget on a blunter approach. The ads take dead aim at electronic brokerage firms. Advertising. C11.
 
A study to be released today found that a majority of online advertisements had short life spans, running three weeks or less. C11.
 
Windows Software List Scrutinized
The ruling against Microsoft said a crucial barrier confronting the company's potential competitors were the 70,000 programs written to run solely on the Windows operating system. But Richard B. McKenzie, an economist, contends that there are probably fewer than 10,000 Windows programs in use today. The lower figure indicates that Microsoft is not the impregnable fortress depicted at its trial, Mr. McKenzie writes in a paper. C7.
 
New Math in MSNBC's Billboards
The cable network MSNBC has placed two billboards on the West Side Highway in Manhattan that promote its main nighttime news program and its host, Brian Williams, and boast of 42 million viewers. Executives at some of MSNBC's rivals find the signs a bit annoying because of the large ratings figure, which uses some inventive arithmetic. C10.
 
Auction Uncovers Fissures in Europe
Ever since the bidding ended in Germany's auction of new wireless licenses, even devoted market enthusiasts have started to wonder whether this is the way to go. Six companies bid a total $46 billion for licenses. Investors have been dumping shares of the winners, and Standard & Poor's warned that it would probably lower most of the companies' credit ratings. The auction also uncovered an uneven playing field in Europe. New Economy. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 11,192.63 up 146.15
Nasdaq composite -- 4,042.68 up 112.34
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.66% down 0.03
The euro -- $0.9023 down 0.0040
The dollar -- 107.04 yen down 1.38
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Personal Income's July figures due at 6:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: +0.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (87%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); WEB SITES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); MINIVANS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); CITIES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); STARTUPS (70%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); ONLINE TRADING (55%); BUILDING PERMITS (53%); 

PERSON: WILLIE L BROWN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



658 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Lynden Pindling, 70, Who Led the Bahamas to Independence

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Sir Lynden O. Pindling, the prime minister of the Bahamas for 25 years whose reputation and relationship with the United States were marred by unresolved accusations of protecting drug traffickers, died on Saturday at his home in Nassau. He was 70.
The cause was prostate cancer, aides said in a statement. 
 Sir Lynden was the prime minister from 1967 to 1992, leading the Bahamas through tremendous change, including the transition from a British colony to independence in 1973. He was defeated in the 1992 election by the current prime minister, Hubert Ingraham. At the time of his defeat, Sir Lynden had been in office longer than any leader in the Western Hemisphere except Fidel Castro of Cuba.
On Saturday, as radio and television stations in the Bahamas broadcast tributes to Sir Lynden, Mr. Ingraham called him "a giant of our times," according to The Associated Press.
Left unmentioned, however, were allegations involving Sir Lynden in the 1980's that political observers in the Bahamas say contributed to his defeat. He was accused of covering up for drug traffickers and of taking bribes as the chairman of the nation's Hotel Commission. A Bahamian government commission was unable to substantiate any of the claims, but the allegations had pronounced political ramifications.
Sir Lynden remained a member of the House of Assembly until 1997, when he resigned after 41 years in that legislative body. At the time, he said he was "less than perfect," but added that "when all I did for good is put in the balance against all I did for ill or failed to do at all, I hope that future generations will not find me sorely wanting."
In 1953, he helped found the Progressive Liberal Party, a political organization dedicated to overthrowing the mostly white colonial-run United Bahamian Party. Some supporters called him the "black Moses."
When he was first elected prime minister in 1967, he ended a tradition of white minority rule that had been in place for centuries. He devoted his first term in office to securing independence from Britain and used that prestige to win five more elections.
Sir Lynden spent much of his time working to improve the reputation of his country, but became vulnerable to charges of corruption in 1984, when an official commission set up to investigate drug trafficking in the Bahamas found wide evidence of official corruption in his cabinet and the Bahamian police. The commission eventually cleared Sir Lynden of any wrongdoing, but said that he and his wife had at least $3.5 million in bank deposits that could not be accounted for.
At the 1987 trial of Carlos Lehder, a founder of the Medellin cocaine cartel in Colombia, prosecutors charged that Mr. Lehder and other drug traffickers had paid at least $5 million to Sir Lynden for permission to use the Bahamas as a shipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for the United States.
Several drug smugglers testified that they had made such payments directly to him. The prime minister denied the accusations. After Mr. Lehder's conviction, the United States sought to confiscate his holdings in the Bahamas, but was rebuffed by Sir Lynden. He continued to quarrel with the United States until his 1992 defeat.
By that year, though, a decline in the economy in the late 1980's and early 1990's had become the decisive factor for many voters. Tourism was by far the largest source of employment and revenue in the nation of more than 700 islands, and the Bahamas was finding it difficult to compete with other vacation destinations.
To many young voters, Sir Lynden was seen not as a father of their country, but as an international pariah and leader who could not get them jobs.
He is survived by his wife, Lady Marguerite; two sons, Obafemi, 40, and Leslie, 39; two daughters, Michelle Sands, 38, and Monique Johnson, 34; and five grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Lynden Pindling in 1983. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: BAHAMAS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHAMA ISLANDS; BAHAMAS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS (OBITUARIES) DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); BRIBERY (78%); COCAINE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); LIBERALISM (67%); CARTELS (65%); CANNABIS (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: PINDLING, LYNDEN O (SIR); BLAIR, JAYSON HUBERT INGRAHAM (73%); FIDEL CASTRO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



659 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
A Political Pulse-Taker Is Back, Without Missing a Beat

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
STAN GREENBERG, who was President Clinton's pollster throughout his long march to the White House, is back in the fray of presidential politics.
Mr. Greenberg, a former Yale political science professor and a longtime interpreter of the political yearnings of the white middle class, quietly signed on with Vice President Al Gore's campaign five weeks ago. His action represented a certain closure: he had left Mr. Clinton after the debacle of 1994, when the Democrats lost the House and the Senate and Mr. Clinton shook up his political team. 
 "He wanted to make a change, given the '94 losses, and he made the change," Mr. Greenberg said, with the careful equanimity of a man who landed well and wants you to know it. "It worked out fine. I'm very happy. My only question is why I'm so foolish to come back and do this," he added with a short laugh.
Since he left Mr. Clinton, Mr. Greenberg has worked on campaigns around the world, developing a kind of specialty in helping center-left parties return to power. He worked on Tony Blair's 1997 campaign for prime minister of Britain, which broke 18 years of Conservative Party rule; Gerhard Schroder's 1998 campaign for chancellor of Germany; and Ehud Barak's campaign last year for prime minister of Israel.
"Each battle has its uniqueness," Mr. Greenberg said. "But each of these parties has struggles in the postindustrial period and they're all trying to learn from each other."
Mr. Greenberg, 55, does not really want to talk about the strategy of the Gore campaign, which has taken a markedly populist turn in recent weeks (a turn that escalated with Mr. Greenberg's arrival, although the Gore campaign dismisses the connection).
Mr. Greenberg dismisses the idea that there is a clear tension between that economic populism and the "new Democrat" philosophy championed by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore in 1992, which was willing to break with liberal orthodoxy on issues like trade and welfare reform.
"Al Gore's a new Democrat, he's always been a new Democrat, his message derives from who he is and what he's been saying in his political life," Mr. Greenberg said.
But the pollster contends that Mr. Gore's candidacy comes at a new stage in American politics. Mr. Clinton's challenge was to deal with the Democratic Party's past, to persuade disaffected voters that the Democrats were not "a big-spending party that's culturally elitist," Mr. Greenberg said. Mr. Gore's challenge is to build on that credibility and show that Democrats "can manage the future," modernizing institutions like Medicare and the public school system wisely and carefully, using the surplus for great national needs.
In that context, Mr. Greenberg asserts, the huge tax cut proposal of Gov. George W. Bush represents a failure of vision. It would mean "that we're going to take the surplus and give it to individuals, now, to spend it, now, with no sense of what it would mean for the future." He added that Senator John McCain "understood this moment much better than Bush does."
Mr. Greenberg has spent much of his professional life trying to synthesize the various themes of the Democratic Party and reconnect it to the middle-class and working-class voters it lost in the 70's and 80's. Mr. Greenberg, whose mother was a bookkeeper and father a "self-taught environmental engineer," grew up in Washington, a product of public schools and the middle-class neighborhoods he studies so intensely today.
He received his doctorate from Harvard, with a dissertation titled, "The Politics of Poor Neighborhoods," and eventually joined the Yale faculty. One of his early academic passions was South Africa -- he worked on Nelson Mandela's campaign in 1994 -- but he inexorably moved into American politics in the early 1980's. After the Democrats' landslide defeat in 1984, the United Auto Workers and the Michigan Democratic Party hired him to study Macomb County, Mich., and determine why what was once the most Democratic suburb in America gave Ronald Reagan 67 percent of its vote in 1984.
HE determined that middle-class voters felt the Democratic Party had abandoned them, was using their hard-earned tax dollars on giveaway programs that did not benefit them and was out of touch with their values. Mr. Clinton, whose thinking was headed in the same direction, hooked up with Mr. Greenberg in the late 1980's, and they soon began a campaign that revolved around "the forgotten middle class," or "the people who work hard and play by the rules."
Mr. Greenberg says he continues to have good relations with Mr. Clinton, despite their break after 1994. Dick Morris, who rose to power on the Clinton team after Mr. Greenberg left, related this comment about Mr. Greenberg: "I'll quote President Clinton to you: 'He never told me what to do. He would always tell me on the one hand, on the other hand, but never tell me what to do.' " Mr. Greenberg said he had no comment on that.
Married to Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, Mr. Greenberg has homes in New Haven and on Capitol Hill. He has three children by his previous marriage; one is a political scientist at Harvard, Anna Greenberg, with whom he recently co-wrote an essay on the Democrats' need to promote "family-centered values." He continued national polling throughout the 90's for the Democratic National Committee and others.
Mr. Greenberg said he did not worry that his opponents would think he had gone global, and lost touch with the nuances of American politics.
"I'll leave it to them to figure out what I bring to the table," he said.
But he dismissed the notion that the Bush team in Austin, clannish and focused, was the dangerous equivalent of the winning Clinton team of 1992. "They may have too tight a team and maybe too mechanical a vision of how to get him elected president," Mr. Greenberg said.
It's an unusual moment in American politics, he contends -- one he clearly did not want to miss.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A populist turn on the Gore campaign coincided with the arrival of Stan Greenberg. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1998 No Official Title Given (57%); 106 S. 1997 No Official Title Given (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENBERG, STANLEY B; TONER, ROBIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (89%); EHUD BARAK (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



660 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Military Misrule in Pakistan

 BODY:
Last October, Gen. Pervez Musharraf overthrew Pakistan's democracy, promising to eradicate corruption, revive the economy and open the way for "true democracy." He pledged to restrain nuclear weapons development and pursue peaceful diplomacy with India. Ten months later, he has made little progress with the economy or corruption and has put off the return of democracy until at least 2003. Pakistan still has not signed the nuclear test ban treaty and tensions with India over Kashmir are as dangerous as ever. Now General Musharraf has announced plans for a new political system designed to buttress his own power by excluding the country's top politicians. That would compound Pakistan's problems. A speedier timetable for restoring democracy is urgently needed.
Pakistan's democratic governments have been flawed. But its military dictatorships have blighted its economic and political development and gravely damaged its international reputation. General Musharraf's administration has proved no different. Military rulers claim they can push through reforms because they do not have to make deals with entrenched political interests. But they are beholden to Pakistan's single most powerful interest group, the military and its related intelligence services. Military spending absorbs more than a quarter of Pakistan's yearly budget, diverting resources needed for education and development. 
 When President Clinton visited Pakistan in February, he made clear America's unhappiness with military rule and with General Musharraf's refusal to cut ties with terrorist groups in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Over the weekend, Don McKinnon, secretary general of the Commonwealth, delivered a similar message. The International Monetary Fund is also unhappy with the slow pace of promised economic reforms. General Musharraf should acknowledge that he is worsening Pakistan's problems and accelerate the return to democratic rule. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KASHMIR (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY ROLE IN POLITICS POLITICS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



661 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Lisdoonvarna Journal;
In Ireland's Pubs, a Startling Trend

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

DATELINE: LISDOONVARNA, Ireland

 BODY:
From the doorway of his family's pub, Peter Curtin has witnessed dramatic changes in Irish life. He remembers when one man's trip to the United States was considered so unusual that he was sent to the local schools to share what he had seen. He remembers when farmers would come in for a pint of Guinness while clutching the reins of horses poking their noses into the pub.
What makes this remarkable is that Mr. Curtin is only 46. So much of Ireland has changed in recent years that he avoids general statements, for fear that another cultural upheaval will occur before he completes the sentence. 
 But today this much is true: trips to the States are routine, customers at the bar could have a BMW parked where the horses used to stand -- and he is probably drinking something other than a Guinness, the midnight-black stout consumed by his father and his father before him.
"It's too individual a taste," Mr. Curtin, who now manages that same pub, said with a hint of admiration. "Plus, it doesn't have the perception as a drink for younger people."
Something seismic is happening in Ireland -- apart from the diminishing influence of the Roman Catholic Church, apart from an economy so ferocious that a tiger has replaced the tamer metaphor of a bull.
In short, people here are not drinking Guinness stout as much as they used to. Signs once proclaiming that "Guinness is good for you" might now read, "Guinness is no longer a given."
Last month Diageo, the international food and beverage giant that owns Guinness along with Pillsbury and Burger King, Smirnoff and Johnnie Walker, announced that worldwide sales for the stout were booming, particularly in the United States.
But it also provided another, more intriguing statistic: while Guinness stout remains the best-selling alcoholic beverage in Ireland, over the last year its consumption here has declined by nearly 4 percent.
This is not a blip. Pat Barry, the director of corporate affairs for a subsidiary called Guinness Ireland, said that in the last five years the sale and consumption of lagers here, the light, cold and transparent brews, have surpassed those of heavier, darker stout for the first time in -- well, for the first time ever.
Nor is this just a routine shift in consumer tastes -- this is not Tayto's chips, it's "the black stuff," something so psychically connected to Ireland that in Dublin after donating blood you are given the choice between a free cup of tea or a half-pint of Guinness.
"Guinness is synonymous with Ireland and with Irish heritage," said Philip Hawkins, an analyst for Merrill Lynch in London. "But as prosperity comes to Ireland at a rapid pace, youngsters have more money in their pockets than ever before and are looking for a more fashionable drinking experience in the fashionable clubs in Dublin.
"And that means you don't walk around with a pint of Guinness in your hand."
Mr. Barry agreed: "The challenge for us is to ensure that Guinness continues to be relevant to a wide range of consumers and to make it more relevant to the newer consumer."
Having relevance in Ireland has never been an issue for Guinness. Part of the national story includes how Arthur Guinness began to brew ales and porter at St. James's Gate in Dublin in 1759; how the brewery introduced a stronger porter called "extra stout" in the 1820's; how the prospering company built housing for the poor and developed St. Stephen's Green as a gift to Dublin. When the company adopted the patriotic symbol of a harp, it seemed more fitting than impertinent.
Of course, as the Irish writer Brendan Behan once observed, Guinness has been good to the Irish, but so too have the Irish been good to Guinness. Generations of men drank its stout as they talked rebellion or shared gossip in pubs, long the community centers of this country. The drink took on its own lore: how you ate a Guinness as much as drank it; how it contained restorative vitamins; how even a pregnant woman might benefit from its wonders.
The famous "Guinness is good for you" slogan is no longer used here -- the beverage is, after all, alcohol. But the company still trumpets the phrase in a few countries, Mr. Barry said, where the stout is perceived by some to be "a source of power and strength and virility."
In a country with more than 10,000 pubs and hotel bars, any failure in the exacting delivery of a pint -- from the cleanliness of the tap lines to the temperature of the beverage -- traditionally could ruin a pub's reputation.
Christopher Curtin, a sociologist at the National University of Ireland, Galway -- and Peter Curtin's older brother -- has spent years studying rural communities like Lisdoonvarna, which is known for its spa water and for an annual September festival at which bachelor farmers once sought potential brides. His research has focused in part on pub life -- a life he knows well, having been born above the family pub, the Roadside Tavern.
In that culture, Christopher Curtin recalled: "To be a drinker was to be drinking Guinness. And if you were to ask what single drink would you have to have above any other, it would be Guinness."
But that culture is in transformation. There is an architectural shift away from the small, bevel-glassed windows, so perfect in thwarting the curious from peering in. The "holy hour" law -- which forced pubs to close on Sunday afternoons to encourage families to eat, and not drink, their Sunday dinners -- was recently set aside. Finally, there is the diminishing influence of Guinness.
When the Curtins were children, their family's pub offered Guinness on tap, whiskey in the bottle, and gin for the nonconformist. Now it offers an assortment of tapped and bottled lagers, from Heineken to Budweiser, as well as ales, ciders, wine and a new line of ready-to-drink concoctions made of vodka, rum and other spirits.
In a way, the choices at the Roadside Tavern reflect how far Ireland has come from being an island unto itself, a parochial place where Guinness profited from its captive audience.
The international market is now competing for the suddenly abundant pocket money of the average Irish consumer. More people are returning from intercontinental vacations with broadened tastes. And the universal emphasis on slim figures, beamed daily over satellite television, bedevils the Guinness marketing executives who have tried for years to convey the difficult message that its heavy product is not particularly fattening.
Guinness anticipated the changing tastes, and has spent millions of dollars on technology to cool the stout -- traditionally served at room temperature -- and to make it available in specially designed cans. But the younger drinkers are proving ever more elusive, acknowledged Mr. Barry. "Our interest at this stage is to encourage the newer drinker to come on board at an earlier age," he said. "And we're doing that through a variety of promotions."
One such promotion includes photographs of attractive young people with the advice to "Live life to the power of Guinness" -- a phrase that, at least in Lisdoonvarna, has Peter Curtin asking, "What the heck does that mean?"
The Guinness tap is far from running dry. The company continues to reap large profits in countries like Italy and Spain, to which it routinely sends architects to help recreate authentic Irish pubs. It still owns the brewing and marketing rights here for Budweiser and Carlsberg beer and distributes various other brands of ales and lagers.
And while the company continues to streamline its operations -- it recently announced the closing of one brewery and layoffs at a packaging plant and another brewery -- Mr. Barry dismisses rumors that its parent company, Diageo, will either sell it or move its operations out of the country. Guinness, he said, will stay -- sponsoring the Rose of Tralee festivals, providing free lunches to the elderly of Dublin, remaining a part of the Irish psyche.
Still, something has been lost. Forty years ago, who in Lisdoonvarna could have imagined that the Curtin lad named Peter -- the one who watched over their horses while they had a pint of Guinness -- would someday propose building a microbrewery next to his family's pub? A microbrewery that he promises would make its own brand of stout.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reflecting a shift from Guinness, the Roadside Tavern in Lisdoonvarna is thinking of opening a microbrewery and making its own stout. (Ted Albracht for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ireland highlighting Lisdoonvarna: Lisdoonvarna is drinking less Guinness, as is Ireland in general.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (72%); DGE (LSE) (72%); DEO (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (72%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (72%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (72%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); 

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (72%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BEER DRINKING PLACES (91%); TRENDS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (87%); FAST FOOD (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); BEVERAGE MFG (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); RELIGION (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%); BLOOD DONATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN ARTHUR GUINNESS (96%); CHRISTOPHER CURTIN (56%); PAT BARRY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



662 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Violent Crime Continues To Decline, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The rate of violent crime in the United States continued a downward trend in 1999, with the 10 percent drop last year representing one of the largest decreases in decades, the Justice Department said today.
The latest figures, released by the department's Bureau of Justice Statistics, which exclude homicide, show a continuation in declines in every major type of personal and property crime between 1993 and 1999. During this period, the rate of violent crimes in general declined 32.7 percent, while robbery with injury dropped 38.5 percent, aggravated assault decreased 41.2 percent and rape fell 40 percent. 
 Results of the annual National Crime Victimization Survey, begun in 1972, show that property crime rates continue a 25-year downward trend. Rates of property crimes, including burglary and motor vehicle theft, dropped 9 percent from 1998 to 1999, decreasing to 198 per 1,000 households from 217 per 1,000 households.
Americans were more secure in their homes from 1998 to 1999, with the number of completed burglaries dropping to 34.1 per 1,000, from 38.5 per 1,000 households.
"After a period of slow decline that was interrupted by an increase from 1980 to 1981, the burglary rate fell each year through the rest of the period," the Justice Department report said. "The 1999 household burglary rate was about a third that of the adjusted rate of 1973."
Law enforcement officials attribute the continued drop in crime rates to a healthy economy, crime prevention programs, tougher sentences and more police officers on the street.
President Clinton, in a statement, called the figures "further proof that the Clinton-Gore administration's anticrime strategy of more police on our streets and fewer guns in the wrong hands has helped to create the safest America in a generation."
Ray Sullivan, a spokesman for Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush's headquarters, told The Associated Press, "It's typical for the Clinton-Gore administration to take credit for good things in America." But, he added, "much of the credit for the decline in crime has to go to governors and local officials who have passed tougher laws, longer prison sentences and lowered parole rates."
The crime rate report is based on information on nonlethal violent and property crimes gathered during the annual National Crime Victimization Survey. In 1999, 42,895 households and 77,750 people age 12 or older were interviewed for the survey.
Although homicides were not included in the survey, the report said preliminary data gathered separately by the Federal Bureau of Investigation indicated that the homicide rate declined about 8 percent last year. Males account for about three-quarters of homicide victims. About one in 8 of these victims is under 18 years old, and firearms are used in 7 of 10 homicides, it said.
The report said 44 percent of last year's violent crimes against people were reported to police, compared with 34 percent of property crimes. Robbery was the violent crime most often reported, with 61 percent of incidents disclosed, while rape and other sexual assaults were the least often brought to the attention of law enforcement. Only 28 percent of these cases were reported.
Men were more likely to be victims of violent crime, including robbery and assault, than women in 1999.
"Males experienced violent crime at rates 28 percent greater, and were robbed at rates more than two times that of females," said the report. "Females were victims of rape and sexual assault at 7.5 times greater the rate of males."
During 1999, it said, 3 women per 1,000 were raped or sexually assaulted, compared with 0.4 men per 1,000. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (58%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (58%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); POLICE CRIME RATES (96%); VIOLENT CRIME (92%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); VANDALISM (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TRENDS (90%); BURGLARY (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CRIME STATISTICS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); SENTENCING (78%); ROBBERY (78%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PAROLE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E BILL CLINTON (86%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



663 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Lazio, Fund-Raising in Chappaqua, Takes Race to Rival's New Home

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA, N.Y., Aug. 27

 BODY:
Representative Rick A. Lazio took his Senate campaign almost literally to Hillary Rodham Clinton's backyard today, appearing at a fund-raiser at a private home four miles from Mrs. Clinton's new house.
And, as is typical in this contentious race, he had some un-neighborly words for his opponent, who moved here just seven months ago. 
 "I don't look at New York as being Mrs. Clinton's neighborhood," Mr. Lazio said when asked how it felt to stand just four miles from the house President and Mrs. Clinton bought here in December to establish residency for her Senate bid.
But, as he dashed off to begin the fund-raiser, he added with a grin, "It's great to be here in Chappaqua."
It was Mr. Lazio's first trip here, but aides would not rule out a follow-up visit to the community, which voted for President Clinton in the last two elections. Recent polls have shown Mr. Lazio doing well in the New York City suburbs, a swing battleground fruitful in votes and money. The fund-raiser here was one of four he attended in and near Westchester County.
Mrs. Clinton was not in town during Mr. Lazio's two-hour visit, which also included an unscheduled stop at a downtown pizzeria.
But Mr. Lazio certainly has a friend in the host of the fund-raiser, Ed O'Keefe, a retired corporate lawyer and chairman of the New Castle Republican Committee. (Chappaqua is a village within the town of New Castle; those who pay taxes to its school district, like Mr. O'Keefe and Mrs. Clinton, consider themselves residents of the village, though the incorporated town is New Castle.)
Mr. Lazio's aides said he did not schedule the fund-raiser here deliberately to tweak the first lady. Mr. O'Keefe said he offered to hold it as a loyal Republican "because I thought it was time for Rick to come up here to Chappaqua to say hello to the folks." Mr. O'Keefe estimated that 130 people, paying on average $300, would attend. (As usual, campaign officials declined to give the actual attendance or total raised.)
It was clear the Lazio campaign relished the idea of Mr. Lazio's stomping on Mrs. Clinton's turf; his fund-raisers are usually closed to the news media. But this time, after word spread Mr. Lazio would be in Chappaqua, his campaign office called a brief news conference on Mr. O'Keefe's lawn before the event.
Mr. Lazio, for his part, said he would talk up his plan to cut taxes by $776 billion over 10 years, an issue that has dominated the campaign since Mr. Lazio unveiled it Thursday in his first major policy address.
Mr. Lazio defended the plan again today, attacking Mrs. Clinton for asserting that his numbers understate the impact on the economy. Mrs. Clinton says Mr. Lazio's plan would actually cost $1.24 trillion, an amount she said would threaten the surplus, drive up interest rates and destroy the economic boom.
"They are in fantasyland," Mr. Lazio told reporters. "They have no plan. All they can do is attack and pull down and rip apart."
Mrs. Clinton does have a tax-fighting plan, though more modest than Mr. Lazio's. Hers amounts to about $496 billion in cuts over 10 years, a less risky course, she says.
"His first plan is a big tax scheme that just doesn't add up," Mrs. Clinton told supporters at a rally in Kingston, N.Y., today, citing reports in Newsday and The Daily News today that assert that some of Mr. Lazio's figures are wrong. She also accused the congressman of trying "to be Bush Lite" with his plan.
Asked to comment on Mr. Lazio's visit and his remark about New York's not being Mrs. Clinton's neighborhood, her spokesman, Howard Wolfson, replied, "Congressman Lazio can't defend his phony tax plan, so he has to resort to personal insults."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Rick A. Lazio and his wife, Patricia, at a fund-raiser in Chappaqua, N.Y., at the home of a village Republican leader. Mr. Lazio's rival for the Senate, Hillary Rodham Clinton, lives four miles away. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; CHAPPAQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES FUNDRAISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAX LAW (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



664 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Bumpy Ride on Vehicle Safety

 BODY:
It has been a dismal month for those concerned about motor vehicle safety, but it brightened just a bit last week when two of the world's major automobile manufacturers took corrective action to restore consumer confidence. First the Ford Motor Company decided to cut production of its popular Ford Explorer sport utility vehicles so as to free their tires to help replace those being recalled for safety reasons on existing vehicles. Some 6.5 million Bridgestone/Firestone tires are being recalled after being linked to hundreds of accidents and 46 deaths in the United States alone.
Then, Mitsubishi Motors, Japan's No. 4 automaker, admitted that it has systematically concealed customer complaints about tens of thousands of defective automobiles since 1977. Middle-level officials, anxious to avoid embarrassing recalls, covered up complaints about fuel tanks, brakes and clutches, simply by altering or hiding documents. Top management says it never knew about it. The company expanded a recall of the faulty vehicles, most of which were sold in Japan. 
 Ford's decision to halt production will be costly. Ford will suspend Explorer production at its big St. Louis plant, as well as production of Ford Ranger pickup trucks at two other plants. These are very profitable vehicles, and Ford estimates its pretax loss at up to $140 million. The shutdowns will last until Sept. 11, giving the supply of replacement tires time to begin catching up with demand.
The decision made good business and legal sense. Ford would have been vulnerable to lawsuits had it continued to mount tires on new Explorers at a time when drivers of old Explorers needed replacements for the tires Firestone recalled.
Despite the many claims sent to Bridgestone/ Firestone by warranty-holders, the company said it did not detect a pattern of failure that required special attention. But when Ford ran the same claims through its own computers, it discovered not only an unusually high number of complaints but also the source of most of the problem tires -- a factory in Decatur, Ill., operated from 1994 to 1996 by replacement workers. Ford says that from now on it will inspect warranty data on all the tires it installs on its cars, instead of depending on the tire manufacturer to supply that information.
But Ford's own performance remained under critical scrutiny. By week's end, Ford was being rebuked by Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater for failing to notify regulators promptly last year when it recalled the Firestone tires on some of its vehicles overseas. Congress, which will hold hearings next month, may need to mandate that manufacturers report all lawsuits, recalls and serious customer complaints to the regulators. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7211 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (94%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP; BRIDGESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO; FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO BRIDGESTONE CORP (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP; BRIDGESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO; FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS; TIRES; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (90%); TIRE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); TIRES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LITIGATION (87%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); STRIKES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LEGISLATION (63%); 

PERSON: DAVID FORD (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



665 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Political Tongue Twisters

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Reporters covering George W. Bush's presidential campaign are having a field day with his so-called Bushisms. It's understandable. They're irresistible.
"We must all hear the universal call to like your neighbor just like you like to be liked yourself," he said.
And then there was his message to struggling workers: "I know how hard it is to put food on your family." 
 Yogi Berra, move over. Let the governor of Texas hit some malaprop-ups.
Back in February, Mr. Bush said of John McCain, "He can't take the high horse and then claim the low road."
You want economic insight? "We ought to make the pie higher," Mr. Bush said.
These comments should not be dismissed as mere gaffes. We owe it to the governor to take him somewhat seriously. Consider the following question, which he posed in New Hampshire: "Will the highways on the Internet become more few?"
Whew!
The danger if Mr. Bush keeps this up is that we will start to think of him as some kind of champ in the fine art of malaprophesizing. That would be a mistake. Consider, for starters, that the term Bushism initially referred to that great malapropartist George Herbert Walker Bush, the 41st president of the United States and father of the current contender.
President Bush once said, "We're enjoying sluggish times, and not enjoying them very much." He said, "It's no exaggeration to say the undecideds could go one way or another." He said, in a reference to Dan Quayle: "My running mate took the lead, was the author of the Job Training Partnership Act. Now, because of a lot of smoke and frenzying of bluefish out there, going after a drop of blood in the water, nobody knows that."
So, as you see, this ability of the younger Mr. Bush to get entangled in the obscurer thickets of the language is not that unusual. The plain truth is that politicians have always been brilliant at finding new ways to insert their feet into mouths that inevitably are running too much. Which is why you have books with titles like "Political Babble: The 1,000 Dumbest Things Ever Said by Politicians." And, "The 267 Stupidest Things Democrats Ever Said." (There's one for Republicans, too.)
Edmund G. (Pat) Brown, commenting on an earthquake when he was governor of California, said: "This is the worst disaster in California since I was elected."
Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut nicely bungled an appearance on behalf of a Democratic Senate candidate in South Carolina by saying: "We've got a strong candidate. I'm trying to think of his name."
Did I mention Dan Quayle? He may be the champ. "Republicans," he said, "understand the importance of bondage between parent and child."
The former vice president was a master at mangling the language. He once said: "I believe we are on an irreversible trend toward more freedom and democracy. But that could change."
His most famous foul-up, now enshrined in Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, was a reference to the motto of the United Negro College Fund, "A mind is a terrible thing to waste."
Said Mr. Quayle: "What a waste it is to lose one's mind, or not to have a mind is being very wasteful. How true that is."
Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago was terrific at this sort of thing. These were some of his best: "I resent your insinuendoes." "The police are not here to create disorder. They're here to preserve disorder." "We shall reach greater and greater platitudes of achievement."
And then, of course, there was Ronald Reagan. Entire books have been written about his flubs. I loved the time when, annoyed by something Ed Asner had said, Mr. Reagan snapped, "What does an actor know about politics?"
So Mr. Bush should take heart. He's not the only one out there hacking away at the language. He might say on "Meet the Press," "Laura and I really don't realize how bright our children is sometimes until we get an objective analysis." Or, on the "Today" show: "I don't have to accept their tenants. I was trying to convince those college students to accept my tenants."
But he is not alone. As Mayor Daley happily pointed out, "No man is an Ireland." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WRITERS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



666 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Military Reserves Are Falling Short In Finding Recruits

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The nation's military Reserves are increasingly struggling to fill their ranks with new recruits, even as the Pentagon relies on them more heavily than ever to conduct operations around the world, according to military officials and Pentagon documents.
In each of the last three years, the Army, Naval and Air Force Reserves have each fallen short of their recruiting goals; last year, the Air Force Reserve missed its objective by nearly 40 percent, signing up only 7,518 of the 11,791 recruits it needed. Only the Marine Corps Reserve has steadily recruited enough new troops in recent years. 
 The recruiting problems have continued -- with the three Reserve forces unlikely to make their targets by the time the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30 -- even though the active-duty services have turned around their own dismal recruiting record after an infusion of recruiters, increased advertising and enlistment bonuses, according to Pentagon records.
For the first time since 1997, the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps are all expected to meet their recruiting goals this year, an achievement Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen and other officials have attributed in part to sharper marketing strategies and a string of military pay increases.
But the difficulty in persuading young men and women to sign up as part-time soldiers, sailors and airmen has been a sobering counterpoint. It is also raising questions about the Pentagon's strategy of turning to the 864,000 members of the Reserves and National Guard for humanitarian missions, peacekeeping operations and combat.
In fact, the increased demands on the Reserves, which have resulted in more missions overseas, is one of the reasons cited as an obstacle to filling units that not so long ago required reservists to set aside only a weekend a month and two weeks a year.
The military's readiness -- particularly efforts to recruit new soldiers and re-enlist the ones it has -- has become an issue in this year's presidential campaign, and the latest recruiting numbers could provide fodder for both Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush.
While Mr. Gore can point to the recruiting turnaround for the active forces, Mr. Bush can emphasize the shortages on the Reserves' side.
"We have the same concerns about morale, recruiting and re-enlistment for the Reserves as we do for the regular forces," a spokesman for the Bush campaign, Ray Sullivan, said on Friday.
The Gore campaign did not respond to questions about Reserve recruiting.
Many of the recruiting challenges facing the Reserves are the same ones that have besieged the entire military in recent years. The economy is thriving, creating more, better-paying alternatives to military service. More and more high school graduates also are heading directly to college, while there has been a steady decline in young people expressing any interest in enlisting in the military.
The Reserves, however, are facing unique problems. Traditionally, the largest pool of Reserve recruits has been made up of people leaving full-time active duty, but as all the services have shrunk from their cold war levels, so has that pool.
There is also evidence that people leaving active duty are less willing to join the Guard or Reserves. In the last three years, the percentage of those leaving the Army who said they would consider continuing to serve part time has declined to 21 percent from 41 percent, according to the Army Reserve.
Officials attribute that at least in part to the increased missions of the Guard and Reserves. Reservists, once described as "weekend warriors," are now serving beside their full-time counterparts in operations from the Persian Gulf to the Balkans. The average Air Force reservist served 58 days last year, while air crews served 110.
"Kids getting off active duty right now are looking at what we're doing and they're saying, 'Whew! I'm not going to join the Reserves or the Guard. I mean you're going where I just came from,' " Maj. Gen. David R. Smith, vice commander of the Air Force Reserve Command, said during an interview earlier this month in his headquarters at Robins Air Force Base in central Georgia.
General Smith and senior Pentagon officials said the problem had not yet become a crisis, but they acknowledged that the difficulty in signing up part-time soldiers, sailors and airmen has created spot shortages, especially in units, like medical companies, requiring special skills.
The National Guard has done better meeting its recruiting goals nationally this year and last, but individual states have fallen short, including Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee, some of which are 5 percent to 10 percent below their authorized strength.
The decline in recruits with prior military service has also meant the Reserves have had to rely on enlistees with no experience, resulting in higher training costs and less seasoned units.
"It continues to be a challenge," Charles L. Cragin, the assistant secretary of defense for Reserve affairs, said in an interview on Friday. "Obviously, if it continues, you're going to have an impact on units."
Mr. Cragin and Reserve commanders said they had watched the trends in recruiting and retention closely, but in recent years much of the attention, and money, has gone to reversing the recruiting slide in the active forces.
The Air Force, for example, paid for television advertising for the first time last year -- increasing its overall advertising budget to $76 million from $22 million the year before -- but the campaign focused almost entirely on recruiting for active duty. The Air Force Reserve's advertising budget, by contrast, fell to $8.5 million this year from $8.9 million.
The Air Force also increased the number of recruiters by nearly 400 this year, to 1,450, and, in addition, it temporarily assigned 169 more. The Air Force Reserve has only 146 recruiters in the field this year.
While active-duty recruiting campaigns appear to have had some success -- with the Air Force, for example, already reaching this year's goal of 34,000 recruits, after falling 1,700 short last year -- the efforts have yet to trickle down to the Reserves.
After falling short by more than 4,000 recruits last year, the Air Force Reserve is projected to fall nearly 2,000 short of a smaller target of only 11,321 recruits this year. The Naval Reserve is projected to fall short of its target of 18,410 by as many as 4,000, a year after missing its target by 4,700 recruits.
Officials point to the slight improvements from a year ago as a hopeful sign. In fact, with a month to go in the fiscal year, the Army Reserve may still meet its target, officials said, and any shortage may be offset by an increase in reserve re-enlistments.
The Reserves have attributed their recruiting problems to a variety of factors, but General Smith and other officials at Robins Air Force Base said the most significant was the dwindling size of the active force.
When the Air Force, like all the services, was shrinking through the 1990's, there were thousands of airmen and officers leaving active duty who chose to stay in the Reserves, often to keep their pensions.
"With the number we were processing, people were walking in the door," said Lt. Col. Kevin L. Reinert, deputy chief of Reserve recruiting. "Now we have to beat the streets."
All of the Reserves have increased signing bonuses, especially for slots that require specialty skills. Doctors who join the Army Reserve can now receive as much as $40,000 to pay off medical school bills.
The Air Force Reserve is also focusing much of its efforts on the dwindling pool of those leaving active duty. At Robins, every airman or officer who leaves has to meet with the base's "in service" recruiter, Tony E. Vinson, an amiable master sergeant who has the persistence of a door-to-door salesman.
"If there's a position for them out there, we'll find it for them," Sergeant Vinson said.
On his wall is a map showing every Air Force Reserve unit in the country, and he quizzes every prospect about where they plan to settle after leaving the force. He also offers them training courses or, more significantly, positions that might not require them to deploy overseas as often as they did on active duty.
In fact, the rising number of missions, or "ops tempo," appears to be a significant reason why people with prior service are less willing to join the Reserves. Five of 19 questionnaires Sergeant Vinson had would-be reservists fill out cited ops tempo as their main reason for leaving.
Many officials agreed that the increasing likelihood that a part-time reservist would be mobilized has contributed to recruiting problems, but they disagreed on the extent.
"The folks who are coming in now kind of know that it's likely they will be called up," said Maj. Gen. Thomas J. Plewes, chief of the Army Reserve. "They know you won't be sitting around the Reserve centers like in the old days, like when I first came in the Reserves, trying to figure out something to do."
There is no question that the pace of deployments has forced more and more reservists to juggle their military service with their civilian jobs and families, what General Smith called "the Reserve triad." And that has clearly made some prospects, either those with previous service or those without it, think twice about joining or staying in the Reserves.
At the same time, however, some of the reservists called up most often -- including those in Army Reserve civil affairs units responsible for dealing with citizens abroad -- actually have a higher rate of re-enlistment than the rest of the force.
"When they get an opportunity to take part in a contingency operation, it is actually a morale booster," said Col. F.C. Williams, commander of the 419th Fighter Wing at Hill Air Force Base in northern Utah, which just sent 165 people and a squadron of F-16s to Turkey to conduct operations over northern Iraq.
The wing has had its recruiting woes. Colonel Williams said he expected to miss his recruiting goal of 220 by as many as 65. Part of that shortage, however, will be offset by improvements in re-enlistments, which he attributed to pay increases and the satisfaction derived from deployments.
Still, he said, there are limits. In the last four years, the wing has deployed reservists to Turkey for more than a month three times and to the Persian Gulf once. That has put a strain on reservists, their families and their civilian employers.
"I'm not sure," Colonel Williams said, "where the line is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE -- Dwindling Reserves"
The military's reserve forces are facing a shortfall in new recruits. New recruits shown as a percentage of the annual recruiting target set by the military branches.
 
Graphs show the recruiting decline in the army, navy, marine corps, and air force from 1995 to 2000. (Source: Department of Defense)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MARINE CORPS (US) UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%); US AIR FORCE (57%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARINE CORPS (US) UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%); US AIR FORCE (57%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WAGES AND SALARIES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); AIR FORCES; ARMIES; RESERVES (MILITARY); BONUSES; NAVIES; ADVERTISING AIR FORCES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); ARMIES (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); PEACEKEEPING (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC) AL GORE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



667 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN 2000: ENVIRONMENT;
Protecting the Earth

 BODY:
Earlier this month, scientists spotted a patch of open ocean about a mile wide at the North Pole, where the ice is normally six to nine feet deep. This remarkable discovery followed close on the heels of a prediction from Norwegian scientists that the polar icecap could disappear, at least in summer, in 50 years. To most climatologists, the thinning of the sea ice is further proof of the warming of the earth's atmosphere, a potentially disruptive trend that hardly mainstream scientists now dispute.
This is the sort of thing that Al Gore loves to talk about, but so far global warming has barely entered the presidential campaign. In fact, except for a three-day period when Mr. Gore talked about energy policy, environmental questions generally have been hidden behind big-ticket items like Social Security, taxes and national defense. But few issues are as vexing and contentious as those that touch on the relationship between people and nature -- issues like clean air, the degradation of the oceans and marine life, the preservation of open space and biodiversity, and climate change. 
 The nation faces two broad environmental imperatives. The first is to continue the momentum of the last 30 years, a period when Congress moved legislatively to clean up the damage inflicted by the Industrial Revolution and to give environmental concerns equal weight with economic development. The second is to help the rest of the world grapple with problems that override national boundaries, like global warming and destruction of biodiversity.
Domestically, the green revolution took wing under Richard Nixon, who presided over the creation of an astonishing body of environmental law. It accelerated under Jimmy Carter, and burst forward again under Bill Clinton, who is ending his term with a series of intricate regulatory moves designed to outfox a hostile Congress and add millions of acres of threatened wilderness to the public domain before he leaves office. But at no time could this progress be taken for granted. President Ronald Reagan's appointees did their best to thwart the will of Congress through inertia and lax enforcement. In 1995, the Gingrich Republicans came very close to rescinding some of the country's basic environmental protections.
The attitude of the White House is decisive. Mr. Reagan's appointees undermined existing law because the president did not care. The Contract With America gang failed because Mr. Clinton did care. So it goes, throughout government. Whether the Army Corps of Engineers, which for decades loved to build dams and straighten out free-flowing rivers, serves or damages the environment depends on whom the president appoints as its civilian chief and whether he keeps an eye on it. Similarly, when the bureaucracy finally gets around to using its existing statutory authority to regulate industrial farmers who foul rivers with animal waste, it will be because some chief executive has ordered it to.
The global issues are of course less amenable to Washington's influence, but these problems cannot begin to be solved without presidential involvement. Put simply, the less-developed world, including China, will not reduce emissions of the gases that contribute to global warming unless the industrialized nations do. The industrialized nations, meanwhile, cannot move forward without the active participation of the United States, the world's biggest producer of those gases. But Congress has refused to force industry to clean up emissions. Nor has it offered industry any incentives to do so. Though Mr. Clinton helped negotiate the Kyoto agreement on global warming in 1997, he chose not to spend further political capital on the issue.
So far, Mr. Gore has taken a more assertive approach than Gov. George W. Bush on all of these questions. Mr. Gore helped devise the administration's aggressive regulatory strategies under the clean air and water laws and fortified Mr. Clinton's resolve to oppose Republican efforts to weaken those laws. He can also be expected to continue Mr. Clinton's efforts to guard and expand the public lands. In Texas, Mr. Bush has pursued a cooperative approach emphasizing voluntary solutions to environmental problems, and has said that as president he would turn over "significant" authority to local governments. While he supports the federal Land and Water Conservation Fund, he has criticized important administration initiatives on wilderness protection and has promised to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil exploration.
Global warming, of course, is Mr. Gore's signature environmental issue, and he is likely to give it a kind of prominence that Mr. Clinton did not. He has also unveiled an ambitious and fairly detailed menu of subsidies and market incentives aimed at helping industry achieve dramatic reductions in greenhouse gases. Mr. Bush agrees that global warming is a problem, but so far he has given no details of what he would do about it. The candidates' positions on warming reflect the overall pattern of the campaign to date on environmental matters. Mr. Bush has expressed general concern for these issues, and on Friday singled out the preservation of tropical forests as a priority in his diplomacy with Latin America. But Mr. Gore has outlined more detailed remedies and conveyed a more muscular attitude about enforcement. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: EARTH (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EARTH (94%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 OCEANS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ARMIES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RIVERS (63%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (60%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (87%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



668 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Act Now to Prevent Diabetes

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Diabetes Rises; Doctors Foresee a Harsh Impact" (front page, Aug. 24): Since 90 to 95 percent of diabetes is lifestyle related, it would appear that we have a wonderful opportunity to practice preventive medicine. But will we? 
 This epidemic of increased eating of high-calorie foods combined with decreased physical activity needs to be actively confronted by the medical community and government. There are clear parallels to the smoking epidemic. It took two generations of smokers to produce an explosion of respiratory cancer and emphysema, and we failed to take early decisive action. Only now are concerted efforts to reduce smoking through increased taxation and antismoking advertisements starting to work.
At some point the economics of the diabetes epidemic will force the issue as our medical system runs out of money for the dialysis units, medications and other treatments needed to sustain the new sick patients.
 
RONALD HALWEIL, M.D.
Bayonne, N.J., Aug. 25, 2000
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: DIABETES; WEIGHT; EXERCISE; DIET AND NUTRITION DIABETES (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (87%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (87%); EPIDEMICS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DIALYSIS (73%); NUTRITION (73%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); 

PERSON: HALWELL, RONALD (DR) RONALD HALWEIL (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



669 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Colombian Port Dresses Up for Clinton Visit

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Aug. 27

 BODY:
At 84, Antonia Sarmiento, nearly toothless and dressed in tattered rags, has seen a lot of tragedy in her life but never a miracle.
But last week Mayor Gina Benedetti de Velez knocked at the door of her shabby clapboard shack to say the local government would rebuild her house for no charge. President Clinton will be visiting the House of Justice across the street, the mayor explained, and he should not have to see such misery in Cartagena. 
 "Bill Clinton is a saint brought to me from Heaven," said a smiling Mrs. Sarmiento, a widow of a police officer who lives, with a disabled son, on the charity of family members.
Watching workmen struggle to complete the front facade in time for Mr. Clinton's visit on Wednesday, she added, "I'd love to invite him inside for a bowl of sancocho" -- a stew of chicken, potatoes and plantains -- "but he would never visit a house like this."
Since local officials learned a month ago that President Clinton would be coming to this splendid Spanish colonial port of soaring church steeples and mounted cannons, they have rushed into a breathless urban renewal campaign perhaps not seen since Sir Francis Drake sacked the city in 1586. A thousand workmen are widening sidewalks, fixing cracked streets, whitewashing government buildings and planting palm trees.
"This is the most important event in Cartagena's history since President Bush came here in 1990," said Mayor Benedetti. "But this is even bigger."
Mr. Bush's visit here to a regional presidential anti-narcotics conference -- with the usual bevy of reporters and camera crews -- helped bring a 34 percent increase in tourists the next year, local officials say.
But the number of tourists has decreased because of the country's expanding war with Marxist guerrilla groups, from 865,379 tourists in Cartagena in 1994 to 535,103 last year. So people here are hoping that this visit will cause another surge in tourism, this city's most important industry.
Mayor Benedetti is lobbying to urge Mr. Clinton and his daughter, Chelsea, to ride through the old city in a horse-drawn carriage, Cartagena's answer to Venice's gondolas, to show off its quaint narrow streets shaded by rococo balconies draped by lush tropical flowers.
She also hopes to have a word with Mr. Clinton to press him to grant Cartagena an exception to the State Department travel advisory warning that Colombia is an exceptionally risky place for American tourists.
No detail has been left to chance to create the perfect pictures and sound bites.
About 150 homeless children have been removed from the streets to "recreational centers" on the outskirts of the city, and 1,500 kiosk owners have been told to haul their rickety wares off the presidential route on Tuesday and Wednesday.
One thoroughfare along the beach, which taxi drivers have taken to renaming Avenida Clinton, has been closed for a complete repaving.
"It's like a girl fixing up her house for her boyfriend's first visit," said El Tiempo, Bogota's leading newspaper, "and asking that her parents and brothers behave themselves to make the best impression."
The round-the-clock grooming effort will cost the city $1 million -- a handsome sum for a city with an annual budget of $160 million -- to fix up the route Mr. Clinton will take during his eight-hour visit.
And that does not count the contributions being made by the local telephone, electric and water companies to fix up damaged pipes, street holes and faulty wiring, or the efforts of store owners, who are washing down everything from their curtains to welcome mats.
The Clinton visit has produced an almost giddy response from Cartagena residents, who never seem to tire of telling visitors that they live in an oasis far from the kidnappings and massacres that characterize the rest of the country.
Actually, Cartagena is well below other Colombian cities in terms of crime and violence, and there have not been any serious incidents here since two bombings in 1989, one by the Medellin drug cartel and one by a Marxist guerrilla group.
"President Clinton's visit will show the world that not all Colombians are bad," said Dimas Ortiz Rondono, 58, a lottery ticket seller who wears rosary beads around his neck and works beside the old slave market in the Plaza de los Coches, which Mr. Clinton is scheduled to visit. "And then the tourists will flock back to us."
As Victor Prieto Castro, 53, a reporter for the local Victoria AM radio station, looked for foreign correspondents to interview, he was excited about covering the biggest story to come his way in some time.
"You can't buy this kind of publicity," he said. "We couldn't be happier. This trip is going to give Colombia a whole new image."
Not all Cartagena residents are so certain a that one-day visit by Mr. Clinton will make a lasting difference for a country that has suffered four decades of conflict, or for a Caribbean tourist destination that most cruise ship companies would just as soon pass to keep their passengers calm. Some even express concern that Mr. Clinton's presence could attract a terrorist attack, which could ruin the city's reputation forever.
Leonor Sanchez, 40, a guide at the 17th-century Palace of the Inquisition, said she was happy that Mr. Clinton is scheduled to visit the Plaza de Bolivar outside the palace. But she said she was not sure that it was a good idea for Mr. Clinton to visit the building's torture chamber or the room upstairs where, she contends, Dominican priests used to indulge in wild orgies during their breaks from punishing Jews, homosexuals and witches.
"This is the dark side of Colombia's history, when power was terribly abused," said Ms. Sanchez, a jolly woman with an encyclopedic knowledge of the old ways of stretching and mutilating bodies. "He could get the bad impression that we have always been a violent country."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers fixing a street in Cartagena for President Clinton's visit. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times)
 
Map of Columbia highlighting location of Cartagena: Cartagena hopes tourism, hurt by a guerrilla war, will improve. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; CARTAGENA (COLOMBIA); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FAMILY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HISTORY (71%); TOURISM (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



670 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: THE OTHER ECONOMY: Nearly Broke in '95, A City Turns Around;
Troy's Fortunes Rebound Sharply, Thanks in Part to New York City's

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

DATELINE: TROY, N.Y., Aug. 23

 BODY:
Just five years ago, this small city on the Hudson River was literally broke.
It had racked up millions of dollars of debts, but had scarcely enough money in the bank to cover a week's bills. It could put only two police cars out on the streets to patrol a city of 51,000 people. And city officials were scrambling to sell anything they could lay their hands on, up to and including City Hall, which at one point bore a sign reading "For Sale by Owner." 
 But times have changed for the better in Troy -- and how. The city's budget was balanced last year, for the fourth year in a row. There is finally enough money for improvements, like new police stations and fire trucks. The city's extraordinary downtown -- it looks like New York City might have in the 1870's -- has been repaved and replanted. New businesses, once scared off by the threat of municipal bankruptcy, have started moving in.
And perhaps most important to the people of Troy, their city is no longer a local disgrace or a national laughingstock, as it was in the mid-1990's. "Now people look over here and say, 'That place is doing all right,' " said William F. Fagan, an insurance agent and head of the local industrial development authority.
How that turnaround came to be is a tale of local grit, of citizens who would not give up on their city and a new mayor who was brave enough to raise taxes and make hard choices. But Troy also got a huge amount of help from the state, which in the last four years has pumped about $20 million of direct aid into the city and spent millions more on economic development projects.
So Troy has been relying on the kindness of friends, like its state senator, Joseph L. Bruno, who happens to be the powerful Senate majority leader. And in an odd way, it is relying on the kindness of strangers: the taxpayers down in the booming southern tip of New York who have helped fill the state's coffers so that there is money available for Troy.
Troy is not alone. Almost every small city in the state, from Newburgh to Niagara Falls, has faced some of the same pressures Troy has: loss of manufacturing jobs, loss of population and loss of property values, which means loss of tax revenues. A handful, including Utica, mismanaged themselves into a similar municipal mess.
And though their rebounds may not be as sharp as Troy's, many cities have clearly been helped by an improving economy upstate and assistance from the state.
But they remain dependent, fiscally and economically, on the financial success of once-scorned New York City, said Helen Cregger, a vice president of Moody's Investors Service, which evaluates the creditworthiness of local governments. "Without those training wheels, they're not ready to do it alone," she said.
The paradox that has New York City and its environs, long reviled upstate, helping to subsidize the urban north, is not lost on H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller. "This is one state -- everyone's in this together," he said, adding that the Legislature could help by making state aid for cities predictable.
Each city in New York has its own story, and Troy's is a long one. Situated on the east bank of the Hudson River, north of Albany, Troy was a center of transportation, especially after the Erie Canal opened in 1825.
And it was an industrial center before and after the Civil War; the Chamber of Commerce boasts that practically every horseshoe for the Union Army was made in Troy. Later, it became known as Collar City, as more than 10,000 people sewed detachable collars and cuffs for men's shirts.
In its heyday, city fathers say, Troy was the 11th largest city in the country, and the fourth richest.
Even after motorcars and washing machines put the kibosh on the horseshoe and collar businesses, Troy usually managed to hold its own, despite some tough times in this century. It has two colleges -- Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Russell Sage College for Women -- that boomed after World War II, and it is close to all the state jobs in Albany.
And well into the 1970's, local residents say, Troy remained a shopping mecca. Young couples might buy their wedding rings at a jeweler near Monument Square, then go up River Street to Nellick's to buy their furniture, just as their parents and grandparents did. But eventually, malls mushroomed and the suburbs beckoned, and the quaint downtown grew empty and abandoned.
As for city government, the big trouble began in 1991, when the state economy was in a recession and New York State drastically cut aid to cities; Troy's fell by almost one third. Meanwhile, its own revenues dropped while its expenses jumped, according to a scathing 1995 report by the independent Center for Governmental Research in Rochester.
But while some cities coped with similar problems, Troy -- where bare-knuckle politics are a blood sport -- did not. "Everyone can share in the blame," said Senator Bruno, a Republican. "We were fighting more for turf than for the best interests" of the community.
Even as the city government's financial health worsened, the Democratic City Council, which governed through a city manager, was reluctant to face financial reality and raise taxes or cut expenses. Instead, it turned to accounting gimmicks, like a complex bond issue that basically mortgaged City Hall.
The 1992 bond issue, which Mr. McCall later criticized as improper and bad for taxpayers, raised money to cover the deficit and finance some grandiose building projects, like a recreation center the city has never been able to afford to operate. It also saddled Troy with enormous interest payments that ate up more than 20 percent of its budget.
By 1995, the city was more than $50 million in debt; it couldn't borrow any more. A new City Council, led this time by Republicans, has fired 50 city employees, but it wasn't enough. Thus, the "For Sale" sign on City Hall, a structure much larger than the city needed, and talk of selling the city's water system or filing for bankruptcy protection.
The mood around town was dismal, said William Patrick Madden, who runs a nonprofit housing program in the city and whose family has been there for generations. The municipal mess "just broke people's spirits," he said.
It didn't help that times were hard in other ways; in the mid-1990's, he added, his staff spent half its time counseling people who were about to default on their financial obligations. (Today, that takes up just 3 percent of their time.)
At this point, in 1995, Mark P. Pattison was elected mayor, the first in 30 years. A rumpled and outspoken Democrat whose family settled in Troy back in canal days, Mr. Pattison had run group homes for the mentally handicapped before he became a mayoral candidate.
"I may be the only politician who found that things were exactly as bad as he said they were," Mr. Pattison now says, with regret. Every day seemed to bring some new financial calamity, like the discovery that although the city had more than 100 police officers, there were only enough working police cars to put two on the street at a time.
He recalled that he immediately raised property taxes by 21 percent and water charges by 38 percent, as 200 protesters picketed City Hall.
He also negotiated with bondholders to cut the city's debt, and embraced a state-imposed supervisory board that had veto power over the city's financial decisions. In return, a municipal assistance corporation, like the one that bailed out New York City in the 1970's, helped Troy raise money. Last year, the city regained control of its finances.
Meanwhile, Mr. Pattison tried to keep his citizens' spirits up. He decided to hang on to the bunker-like City Hall, which was built in the early 1970's to replace an ornate structure that burned in 1938. "It would have been a death knell," he says. "Selling your city hall, in a community with a lot of pride, does not motivate people."
So he and his city learned to make do. (His office still features its original "space age" white plastic and brown leather furniture, and the brown and blue carpeting has seen better days.) When the city could not afford new police cars, it bought 10 used ones. When it could not replace things, it repainted them.
And in a break with precedent, Mr. Pattison and Mr. Bruno managed to put politics aside and work together to bring new development into Troy. "Believe me," Mr. Bruno said, "I had a lot of naysayers approaching me and saying, "Let 'em sink.' "
Instead, Mr. Bruno helped Troy get about $4 million a year in state aid for distressed cities. He had money appropriated to turn some abandoned storefronts on the main square into a new arts center. He provided $2 million to renovate the Rice Building, a fabulous edifice designed by Calvert Vaux, to accommodate small high-technology companies affiliated with Rensselaer Polytechnic.
And he managed to have more than 1,000 state workers stationed in Troy.
All those office workers have been a lure for shopkeepers like Gary H. Kiddney and Steven R. Fox, who last year moved their gift shop, Mary Elizabeth, into downtown Troy from a nearby mall. "We saw it as a golden opportunity, even when everyone else saw it as a pit," Mr. Kiddney said.
Many of his customers are people stopping in on their breaks or lunch hours, like Susan Harris, a probation officer for Rensselaer County, who was picking up some potpourri this week. "We're starting to see some changes for the better," said Ms. Harris, who has lived in Troy for 35 years. "This store is one of the improvements."
The gift shop's success has, in turn, inspired other store owners, like John Waters, who just this week opened a new jewelry store near the arts center (Troy is sufficiently small that the mayor performed the ribbon-cutting). "Five years ago, I wouldn't have come here," Mr. Waters said, adding that he initially thought about opening in a strip mall. "But now there's a lot of foot traffic here."
Across the street, however, are vacant storefronts, a reminder of how far Troy still has to go before anyone can call it vibrant. Nearby, a big block of buildings, supposed to house fledgling businesses, has reverted to city ownership and is up for sale. Carmella Mantello, who ran against Mr. Pattison in November and got 45 percent of the vote, said her supporters were worried about crime and falling property values and rallied to her call for a tax cut.
And a longtime mainstay of the city, the Thomasville Home Furnishings Store (nee Nellick's) will leave the building on River Street where it has been since 1913, and move next spring to a mall. Barry Goldberg, the store's owner, said that customers these days prefer to shop at malls, where all the merchandise is on one floor, as in all the other Thomasville stores around the country.
Troy's partisans argue, however, that their city's genuineness and uniqueness are what will save it -- and are already attracting people. Sure, there may not be a Starbucks, but there's Barb's Coffee-Tyme, Open 24 Hours, and Famous Lunch, where $2.98 buys you four small chili dogs, a can of soda, and conversation with a waitress who knows everybody's name (and dental problems).
"We have what everyone else is trying to build -- a cute small town," said Joe Fama, executive director of the Troy Architectural Program. "We have the actual buildings Disney spends $3 million" to copy.
As for Mayor Pattison, he remains both optimistic and cautious.
"We've had micro successes -- tremendous victories -- but we still have macro problems," he said. As a society, he added, "We have to decide whether we want small cities -- because they really depend on state and federal support."

The Other Economy
Upstate New York, a vast, diverse landscape of old cities, small towns, farms and forests stretching from Buffalo to Albany and north to the Canadian border, was once one of the most populous and prosperous regions of the country. But the national economic boom that swept into New York City and its suburbs passed it by. This is the fifth article of a series that began April 9 examining the region's quest for prosperity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Troy, N.Y., prides itself on old-time flavor, like a fountain in Prospect Park, above left, and a weekly farmer's market, left. It has had a tough but rapid recovery. "I may be the only politician who found that things were exactly as bad as he said they were," said Mayor Mark P. Pattison, right. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of New York State highlights the location of Troy: Troy has rebounded since it had to put a "For Sale" sign on City Hall. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TROY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); MAYORS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); INSURANCE (65%); LAYOFFS (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



671 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Short of People, Iowa Seeks To Be Ellis Island of Midwest

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa

 BODY:
No one would call Iowa a melting pot. Nearly 96 percent white, this state, striated with farm fields and trim small towns, may have more kinds of hogs and corn than nationalities of people.
And the immigrants Iowa does have, about 2 percent of the population, have become enough of a hot-button subject that twice in the last three years the state legislature was embroiled in debates over proposals, not passed, that English be made Iowa's official language. Some Iowans contend that immigrants cause crime and burden schools, health care and welfare programs. 
 So it is all the more surprising that Iowa is proposing something no other state has done: an all-out immigrant recruitment drive.
The proposal is to make Iowa what a governor's commission calls an "immigration enterprise zone," and the possible approaches include seeking an exemption from federal immigration quotas -- an unprecedented request that could require Congressional action. Other ideas involve working with the State Department or refugee organizations to make Iowa a priority destination for refugees, helping companies recruit employees abroad, even having the governor make sales pitches to prospective emigres. The state also wants more federal immigration agents in Iowa's district, to process newcomers faster.
The idea is to ease Iowa's population deficit, bringing in enough people to create a work force for a vibrant economy. Iowa, which hemorrhaged families during the 1980's farm crisis and still loses young people after high school, has fewer residents than it did 20 years ago. And with an unemployment rate of 2 percent, there are not enough workers to allow many new businesses to open, or existing ones to expand or even replace retirees.
The problem is shared across the Midwest, where states like Nebraska offer financial incentives to keep bright students from leaving. But Iowa's proposal is extraordinary because the state is convinced it must look outside this country's borders.
"The point is we need more people," said Iowa's governor, Tom Vilsack. "Part of that can be done by trying to keep young people here. Part of it can be done by trying to bring Iowans back to the state. But an aspect of it has to be a program or plan or some kind of method by which we become a welcoming state for people from different cultures."
Mr. Vilsack knows that some Iowans, and immigrants, might have trouble adjusting.
"I'm not naive enough to think that this is going to be sort of a Pollyanna type of deal," he said. "It's going to be a struggle."
In Marshalltown, for example, a community of 30,000, the influx of several thousand Mexican immigrants to work at a meatpacking plant has not been universally embraced. This month, a petition was submitted to the county board of supervisors calling for county business to be printed in English only.
"It's great for liberals to say we're all immigrants," said Biff Dysart, who edits Marshalltimes Magazine. "But if you look back at all of our families when they came here, they all did their level best to assimilate. The current crop of immigrants not only does not want to assimilate. They drive around town with Mexican flags flying from their antennas, and they refuse to even learn the language, many of them do."
Immigrants and those who welcome them say the state faces a tough job.
"They're going to need to work to deal with the stereotypes," said Sandra Charvat Burke, a demographer at Iowa State University who lives in Marshalltown and heads a town diversity committee. Ms. Burke said the state should be prepared to hire paraprofessionals in the schools to work with immigrant students so native Iowans do not feel their children are shortchanged.
Nora Cano, a Mexican immigrant who runs the Taqueria El Cacheton restaurant, said there should be more interpreters at health clinics and other services and more English classes for adults. Ms. Cano, 31, said that while some people in Marshalltown were friendly, she had also had anti-immigrant epithets yelled at her and was denied service by a cashier.
The idea of making Iowa an Ellis Island of sorts came from a bipartisan committee appointed by Mr. Vilsack, Iowa's first Democratic governor in 30 years, to devise a plan to help the state thrive by 2010. The committee of 37 prominent Iowans set goals like making Iowa technologically competitive and developing nonagricultural industries.
With each goal, the committee kept realizing, "Gee, we can't do this if we don't have any people," said Jerry Kelley, the mayor of Indianola, who headed the 2010 Committee's population group. "Don't you know we have a disaster?"
Iowa ranks third in the nation in percentage of elderly. The average farmer is 58 years old; the average assembly-line worker at the Maytag Corporation is 57.
"If Iowa retains every single one of its graduating high school students between now and 2005, we'll have a decrease of 3 percent of the available work force," Mr. Kelley said, adding that North Dakota would be the only other state with a net loss.
The committee recommended that Iowa, which has an estimated 2.87 million people, add 310,000 working people by 2010. That includes building on recent efforts to urge young people to stay and lure far-flung Iowans home. (Last year Mr. Vilsack hit Manhattan, holding a party at Tavern on the Green for former Iowans in New York.)
But the committee became convinced that more immigrants were vital, said its chairman, David Oman, an AT&T executive and former Republican candidate for governor. "We all sort of held our breath when it was time to release the report," Mr. Oman said. "We weren't sure what the reaction would be."
A draft of the report has certainly created a stir.
Though the plan calls for attracting a wide range of employees, some skeptics worry that only low-wage workers will come to Iowa, and depress wages. Others fear a flood of highly skilled employees that will leave fewer choice jobs for Iowans.
Immigrant advocates like Sandra Sanchez, director of the immigrant rights project of the American Friends Service Committee in Des Moines, praise the proposal. But they also raise questions.
"Our state is not really equipped to deal with a high population of foreign-born immigrants," Ms. Sanchez said. State services, she said, "do not have bilingual staff; they haven't received culturally appropriate training."
In recent years, immigrants -- from Bosnia, Sudan and especially Mexico -- have been the only reason Iowa's population has had any net growth. Many come after living in other states, easing their adjustment.
The 2010 Committee proposes "diversity welcome centers" to help immigrants find housing, learn English and find health care.
Most other details remain undetermined, including the cost, although the committee provided some estimates, like $7,700 plus $3,100 monthly in relocation costs for an immigrant family of three. Mr. Vilsack says he hopes much of the money can be simply shifted from other government programs.
It is also unclear how or whether to exempt Iowa from federal immigration restrictions, which generally require that immigrants from one country not make up more than 7 percent of the annual total, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman said. An aide to Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said one idea was legislation allowing Iowa's immigrants to "not count against the overall number for a period of time."
Mr. Vilsack said he envisioned communities getting state help preparing resources to accommodate foreigners and essentially sponsoring groups of immigrants. He cited a 1970's program in which Southeast Asian refugees were sponsored by families, businesses, churches or towns.
"In the 1990's, immigration was primarily fueled by the need for workers, and companies have a completely different agenda," he said. "They didn't give a thought about the impact that bringing 200 or 300 immigrants into a small community might have. And there was trouble, there was conflict."
Mr. Vilsack said people would be more accepting if they understood immigrants' circumstances.
"What is it about a refugee that makes it easier to accept?" he said. "I suspect that it is an appeal to compassion, an appeal to the hardship that they've been through. Well, the same aspect can be applied to the sometimes heroic efforts on the part of Mexicans to cross the border because they don't have economic opportunity in Mexico."
In Marshalltown, Ms. Burke of the town diversity committee said, "We've had some people supporting the immigrants very strongly, and we have people who resent still hearing anything but English on Main Street."
Immigrants here often work long hours at jobs Iowans reject, and often have strong families. But the police say crime has increased since Mexicans arrived, and a Mexican-made form of methamphetamine has appeared. Some residents have focused on those problems.
"We need more people but we need the right kind of people," Mr. Dysart of Marshalltimes Magazine said, adding that he believes some Mexicans have been productive, upstanding residents. "We need a doctor from Ghana, a schoolteacher from Brussels, a journalist from Calcutta. What we don't need is 5,000 more Mexican meth dealers."
Roger Harrison, a lawyer organizing the English-only petition, said, "The non-English-speaking people continue to have their own groups and it fosters ethnic problems and educational problems."
Eusebio Minjares, 39, a Mexican immigrant who works for the Marshalltown Trowel factory, says he sometimes feels that people stare at him warily in higher-income neighborhoods, and that his boss is stricter with Latino employees. But he says he has also been treated courteously here.
And in Marshalltown schools, test scores have declined with the influx of immigrants and there are too few bilingual teachers, said the city's schools superintendent, Richard Doyle. But Latino parents are often very involved in their children's schooling, he said.
"Just the other day we were talking about how can we attract more people to the community to work," Dr. Doyle said. "If immigration is what it's going to take, then I'm in favor of that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Biff Dysart, who edits a local magazine, says Marshalltown's immigrants do not want to assimilate.; Nora Cano, who runs the Taqueria El Cacheton restaurant in Marshalltown, Iowa, says she has occasionally encountered anti-immigrant prejudice in the three years since she arrived in Iowa from Mexico. (Photographs by Eli Lucero/Associated Press for The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (98%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; MIDWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (98%); IOWA, USA (98%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT; POPULATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH IMMIGRATION (94%); REFUGEES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); COUNTIES (73%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM TOM VILSACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



672 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT URGES NIGERIA TO FIGHT TYRANNY OF AIDS

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria, Aug. 27

 BODY:
President Clinton urged Nigerians today to eliminate the taboos associated with AIDS in Africa, and to confront what he called the "tyranny" of the disease with the same resolve they showed in enduring decades of dictatorship.
"Is it harder to talk about these things than to watch a child die of AIDS who could have lived if the rest of us had done our part?" the president asked at a women's conference here. "Is it harder to talk about than to comfort a child whose mother has died? We have to break the silence about how this disease spreads and how to prevent it. And we need to fight AIDS, not people with AIDS." 
 Mr. Clinton's remarks presented a bold challenge, not only to Nigerians but to all in Africa, where health experts have lamented the fact that the stigma surrounding the disease and inadequate public education about its dangers have contributed to the spread of AIDS. An estimated 23 million Africans carry H.I.V., the virus that causes the disease.
But while the president offered American support for Nigerian efforts to confront AIDS, he offered no new assistance. Africans reacted coolly to the United States' offer last month of $1 billion in annual loans to finance the purchase of anti-AIDS drugs in sub-Saharan Africa, suggesting that the approach would merely add to the already heavy debt burden of African nations.
Mr. Clinton spent the day addressing some of the most pressing problems in Africa: AIDS, poverty, joblessness and soaring national debt. He ventured from the Nigerian capital to a rural village to get a glimpse of how a vast majority of Nigerians live and, winding up a two-day visit to Africa's newest democracy, he encouraged Nigerian businessmen to work to expand the economy beyond its heavy reliance on oil.
Under a morning rain, the village chief, Muhammadu Baba, led Mr. Clinton through the muddy walkways traversing the village of Ushafa, where tin-roof huts house several thousand residents, as well as houses of worship, a pharmacy and health clinic.
The president, accompanied by his daughter, Chelsea, received a rousing welcome as schoolchildren bearing tiny American flags sang greetings and native dancers spun around him in the center square. Mr. Clinton, to the delight of onlookers, slipped into a traditional Nigerian robe and held aloft a handmade hoe, both official gifts of the village.
Later, at a hotel conference room in Abuja, Mr. Clinton told business executives that Nigeria would be added to the list of developing countries that receive duty-free status for their exports, and he vowed to increase ties between Nigeria and the United States, its largest export market. The elimination of tariffs could increase demand for Nigerian exports including cocoa, cotton, hand-made traditional textiles, minerals and forest products.
But it was at a midday appearance before a crowded women's conference that Mr. Clinton addressed the health plight that if left unchecked, he said, would stymie the country even if political and economic reforms took root.
Standing beside a man infected with the virus that has become the continent's leading killer, Mr. Clinton applauded Nigeria's efforts to control the spread of AIDS. But he offered a blunt reminder to Africans that the disease is preventable -- if people would only speak frankly about how it is spread, and take common-sense action.
"AIDS is 100 percent preventable -- if we are willing to deal with it openly and honestly," he said. "In every country, in any culture, it is difficult, painful, at the very least, embarrassing to talk about the issues involved with AIDS."
The president announced no new funds for Nigeria's AIDS fight but he detailed the $20 million the United States will spend this year to control the spread of AIDS, malaria and polio in Nigeria. He reported that AIDS education would be included as part of the military training that United States troops are giving to Nigerian peacekeepers headed to nearby Sierra Leone, which has been ravaged by civil war.
He told the audience of young people, religious leaders and women at the conference in Abuja that Nigerians, despite the introduction of civilian rule last year, would never be free until they bring infectious diseases under control. An estimated 5.4 percent of Nigeria's 114 million people are infected with the AIDS virus, according to the White House, giving it one of the highest infection rates on the continent.
"I am amazed at the courage of the people of Nigeria in struggling against the oppression that you endured for too long until you got your democracy," Mr. Clinton said. "I urge you now to show that same kind of courage to beat the tyranny of this disease so you can keep your democracy alive for all the children of Nigeria and their future."
United States officials, frustrated by the lack of action by some African governments, have praised President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria for making the fight against AIDS a priority. But Mr. Obasanjo stressed today that Nigeria would need help from the rest of the world to win its struggle against the disease.
"It is not a disease you can say if you eradicate it in Nigeria, it is eradicated for good," Mr. Obasanjo said. "Those from Nigeria who go outside and have sexual relations with those who have H.I.V.-AIDS or have blood transfusions with them will bring it back. We don't see it as a Nigerian disease. We see it as a world disease that is ravaging Africa most."
Throughout Mr. Clinton's two-day visit here, Mr. Obasanjo has repeatedly raised the issue of debt relief, encouraging the wealthy nations of the world to forgive the large sums amassed by previous African rulers.
Mr. Obasanjo, elected 15 months ago as part of Nigeria's tenuous transition to democracy, did not directly address the United States AIDS plan today. But in toasting Mr. Clinton at a state dinner on Saturday night, he made a plea for financial relief from the United States and other wealthy nations.
"We know that we cannot achieve our desire for economic development if we continue to bleed from the gushing wounds of an ever-penetrating debt-repayment lance," he said.
Mr. Clinton, in addressing business leaders today, said past leaders of Nigeria -- a country that has suffered under corrupt dictators for most of its modern history -- had squandered its riches and must be careful to focus any debt relief on improving the lives of its people.
In the village of Ushafa, Mr. Clinton saw how far Nigeria must still progress. The village lacks telephone service and running water and received electricity only several months ago. Mr. Clinton entered a small medical clinic that had been stocked with supplies by the State Department just the day before.
One worker told the president that the clinic had treated 234 cases of malaria this year. There are no H.I.V. cases, villagers said, although nearby villages have cases and urban areas are heavily affected.
The United States assistance to Nigeria includes $2 million in the current budget to produce insecticide-treated bed nets to keep malaria-infected mosquitoes at bay, as well as $9 million to battle polio and $10 million to assist the anti-AIDS fight. The White House has requested a $100 million increase, to $342 million, in international AIDS funds in the 2001 fiscal year budget.
"This is not just Nigeria's fight, or Africa's fight," Mr. Clinton said. "It is America's fight and the world's fight too."
The president's remarks heartened John Ibekwe, who heads an organization in Nigeria for people living with AIDS. "With you as an advocate on our side, governments in Africa will do more than they are doing," Mr. Ibekwe said in introducing the president.
Mr. Clinton, who restricted his travel in Nigeria partly for security reasons, leaves for Tanzania early Monday for an update from former President Nelson Mandela of South Africa on the Burundi peace talks. He began his day at a Baptist church in Abuja, where he heard the Rev. Israel Akanji preach on the parable of the Good Samaritan.
"Robbers have come; bandits have come," Mr. Akanji said of his country's struggles against its own leaders. "We have been left wounded, bleeding and dying. Is there a Good Samaritan passing by?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton walking with doctors yesterday while visiting Ushafa, a village in north-central Nigeria. He wore a traditional Nigerian robe. (Reuters)(pg. A1); President Clinton, in a traditional Nigerian robe, got an enthusiastic greeting yesterday in the village of Ushafa, near Nigeria's capital, while Kyata Shamba, 13, wore an American flag as she prepared to greet him. (Rick Bowner/Associated Press); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Nigeria highlighting location of Abuja: Clinton spoke about AIDS to a women's conference in Abuja. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 114 PHYSICAL THERAPY AND OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY EDUCATION ACT OF 1999 (54%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (99%); AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: ABUJA, NIGERIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA; AFRICA; USHAFA (NIGERIA); NIGERIA (99%); AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ABUJA, NIGERIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NIGERIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AIDS & HIV (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); EXECUTIVES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); WOMEN (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); VIRUSES (73%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); ANTIVIRALS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (62%); TEXTILES (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, CHELSEA BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



673 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: A Republican Blazes a Trail In the Campaign For Lazio's Seat

SERIES: NEW YORK PRIMARY -- Second Congressional District

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: BAY SHORE, N.Y.

 BODY:
It was, she says, divine inspiration that cast her into a race that could make her the first black Republican woman ever to serve in Congress.
"I really think I am on a path that someone higher than me is preparing me for," says Joan B. Johnson, 66, the elected town clerk of Islip, who has mounted a campaign to win the Suffolk County seat that Representative Rick A. Lazio is giving up for his Senate candidacy. 
 There was, of course, some earthly machination as well. Two of Suffolk County's most powerful Republicans, the party leaders of the county organization and the town of Islip, the largest community, threw their support behind Mrs. Johnson, a blunt-spoken former social worker. She may lack the polish of a political pro, party leaders reasoned, but she is a proven vote getter whose moderate stances to the left of Mr. Lazio -- and perhaps her race and sex -- will attract Democrats' votes in the Second Congressional District, where Republicans hold only a slight edge in voter registration.
And now Mrs. Johnson, one of a few black Republican women running in the country but the one political analysts say has the best shot, finds herself in the semi-comfortable position of blazing a trail, maybe two, lined with obstacles. She must win a primary on Sept. 12, and confront the possibility that, as she and her supporters concede, some people may not vote for her, simply because of her race and sex.
"A lot of people really thought they were going to get this nod, mainly because here on Long Island you tend to have a cookie-cutter type profile of what a congressperson should look like," Mrs. Johnson said, alluding to the Island's penchant for sending young, white male lawyers to Washington. "And it didn't look like me. It's never female. And in that respect, that's the historic piece of this. I would be the first Republican woman in either Nassau or Suffolk Counties to ever run for Congress."
Mrs. Johnson, who grew up in Florida when segregation was legal and has lived in Islip for 38 years, said the racial aspect of her potential achievement never occurred to her until a reporter for a political journal raised the issue, shortly after she entered the campaign in June.
"I said, 'Oh, my God.' First time I heard it. Never even thought about it," she said.
Mrs. Johnson, who teaches Bible study on Saturdays and dispenses marriage licenses and other bureaucratic documents during the week, now weathers the gale of a high-stakes Congressional race, one symbolically and tactically important for Republicans. Their five-seat hold on the House is on the line, and they are loath to surrender any seat, much less that of Mr. Lazio.
And so Mrs. Johnson, town clerk since 1991, is surrounded by a staff she hardly knows, with a state party operative as her campaign manager and a Washington consultant, Tony Marsh, as campaign strategist. Her eyes bulge at her fund-raising goal, $1.5 million, 88 times the most she ever raised for a town clerk campaign and a far cry from what she has now, about $130,000.
The open seat has brought out a bevy of contenders to a contest that Congressional Quarterly, a leading political journal, rates a tossup between the eventual Democratic and Republican nominees.
Mrs. Johnson has received the endorsement of the Republican and the Conservative Party organizations, but faces a primary on both lines. Her Republican challenger is Robert T. Walsh, a retired banker from Deer Park who represents a Russian humanitarian organization at the United Nations. Mr. Walsh also plans to run on the Right to Life line, as he did in 1994 when he ran for governor. (Mrs. Johnson favors abortion rights with no restrictions, unlike Mr. Lazio, who opposes both public financing for abortions and late-term procedures.) Richard N. Thompson of West Islip is challenging her on the Conservative line.
Mr. Walsh, calling Mrs. Johnson's positions on abortion and gun control out of step with the district's electorate, said, "I think she is an extraordinarily weak candidate and has little chance to beat the Democrats running." He said his years as a banking executive and as a goodwill ambassador at the United Nations stood above her qualifications "or lack thereof" as town clerk.
Mr. Thompson, a lawyer from West Islip who was a pitcher for the Cleveland Indians and Montreal Expos in the 1980's, said he viewed Mrs. Johnson as too far to the left on a number of issues. "I don't think she was the best candidate chosen by the Republicans," he said. "I didn't think she was a voice for conservative values, so I felt compelled to run."
The opponent the primary winners will face is still undetermined. Democrats are headed for a three-way primary, with the victor almost guaranteed strong backing by the national party in an effort both to embarrass Mr. Lazio by grabbing his seat and to help win back the House. They are seeking to reclaim a seat held by a Democrat, Thomas Downey, for 20 years before Mr. Lazio defeated him in 1992.
But among the biggest question marks looming is how voters will take to Mrs. Johnson's race and sex, in a district that has never sent a woman to Congress and whose population of 580,000 is about 79 percent white, 9 percent black, 9 percent Hispanic and 2 percent Asian.
Republicans have portrayed her candidacy as groundbreaking and emblematic of the diversity and inclusiveness they seek. National party officials gave her a brief but valuable daytime speaking role at the Republican National Convention this month. The National Republican Congressional Committee, which conducted a poll in early June that placed Mrs. Johnson near the top of the potential candidates in name recognition, is expected to send a hefty sum to her campaign this fall.
That said, even some of Mrs. Johnson's supporters openly wonder whether people will choose not to vote for her principally because of her race. "I'd like to say that won't happen, but realistically it might," said State Senator Carl L. Marcellino of Syosset, who said he was hopeful that "people in the district will look beyond that."
Some Republicans privately worry about Mrs. Johnson's age and lack of political or legislative experience and rue the decision of Peter McGowan, the powerful Islip town supervisor, to skip the race even though he topped the list of six or seven contenders for the party's backing. Mrs. Johnson, who was not on the initial list, is most often described as kindly, but lacking the fierce ambition that could make waves in a local party striving for stability after scandals and a succession of leaders.
She scoffs at those who question her experience, saying the administrative tasks of the town clerk's office and service on numerous community organization boards adequately prepare anyone for Congress. She cites the case of Representative Carolyn McCarthy, a Long Island Democrat, who won office in 1996 with no political experience by running on a gun control platform rooted in the death of her husband in the Long Island Rail Road shooting in 1993.
As for strategy, Mrs. Johnson hammers an antitax message but also has firmly hitched her fortune to Mr. Lazio, a popular figure in the district. In remarks at a recent "meet the candidates" picnic, Mrs. Johnson scarcely mentioned herself for all her praise of Mr. Lazio.
Black Republicans have always tilted at political windmills, said David Bositis, senior political analyst for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington-based organization that studies African-American affairs. There is only one black Republican now in Congress, J. C. Watts of Oklahoma, and there have been only five this century, Mr. Bositis said.
"Face it, there is a lot of history between African-Americans and the G.O.P.," said Mr. Bositis, citing as an example the party's advocacy during the 1960's and 70's of "states' rights' and other positions that blacks have seen as racially tinged appeals to white Southerners. "At least in the recent past, most of it is negative. No amount of image making in the short term is going to change that around."
Mrs. Johnson grows impatient with talk about one party being for one race or another, a form of "racial profiling," she says with a laugh. If Democrats are perceived as more likely champions of racial advancement, people need to go further back in history, she says with mounting bitterness, rattling off names of Southern Democrats with reputations for intolerance. "I'll tell you who the people were in power when my people were hanging from ropes in trees. They were Democrats."
Her views are generally liberal. She is for not only abortion rights, but also affirmative action, and -- as the godmother of a 17-year-old murder victim -- gun control, including registration. She supports the death penalty, for the most heinous crimes like serial killings, but she says her positions are not rigid and shifted uncomfortably as she discussed the topic. "These issues don't come easy to me," she says. "All life is precious."
But Mrs. Johnson says she feels philosophically closer to Republicans because of her goals to lower taxes and shrink government.
More than anything, however, Mrs. Johnson senses victory in her web of community connections, from her work at Head Start to children's clubs to the town clerk's office.
"See that robe?" she says, motioning to a black gown hanging in the campaign office here on East Main Street that once was where she got her nails done. "I've married 2,500 couples. That's 5,000 people who personally know me because I've put them together." She added: "I go to the Eagle Scout awards, and I was a member of the Boy Scouts Council, and I was a vice president of the Girl Scouts Council, so I do a lot of things locally. My weekends are always filled with community things, the Fire Department, the whatever, the church events."
Theresa Sanders, president of the Urban League of Long Island, a nonpartisan group, said: "She always has been an unsung hero in our community. What Joan Johnson does represent is we've always had progressive, articulate, dedicated African-Americans in our community, and Joan Johnson is no stranger to us."
 
New York Primary
 
Articles in this series are examining individual primary contests in Congressional and local districts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan B. Johnson, town clerk of Islip, N.Y., is in a high-stakes Congressional race, one symbolically and tactically important for Republicans. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B3)
 
Map of Long Island showing the location of the Second Congressional District: The Second Congressional District has never sent a woman to Congress. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 5 INTERNATIONAL CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1999 (50%); 106 S. 5 DRUG-FREE CENTURY ACT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS; WOMEN; PRIMARIES COUNTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RELIGION (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (75%); MARRIAGE (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, JOAN B; ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; WALSH, ROBERT T; THOMPSON, RICHARD N; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) JOAN B JOHNSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000



674 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 2; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Raise Fresh Issues in Breast-Feeding Debate

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 28

 BODY:
A recent study in India suggests that breast-feeding alone may not provide enough sustenance to babies in the developing nations when their mothers are severely malnourished.
The report adds fuel to a debate about a decade-old campaign by the World Health Organization and other United Nations agencies that advocate an exclusive reliance on breast milk for the first six months of life. 
 The study -- an Indian National Family Health Survey report titled "Are W.H.O. Guidelines on Breast-Feeding Appropriate for India?" -- concludes that babies can and should be given supplementary liquids or soft foods as young as 2 or 3 months to overcome the deficiencies in the milk of a malnourished mother.
The new survey drew immediate criticism from officials from the World Health Organization and Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund. Both groups say that breast-feeding provides the safest, most health-giving nourishment, providing antibodies against diarrheal disease and eliminating risks posed by contaminants often introduced into baby formula or other supplements through the use of dirty water.
Questions about breast-feeding in the developing world have arisen because of AIDS, with studies still assessing the possible transmission from mother to baby of the virus that causes AIDS.
The World Health Organization's guidelines say that breast-feeding should begin immediately after birth and that infants should receive no other food until they are 4 to 6 months old, when supplements may be added to provide additional nutrients. Breast-feeding, in combination with other foods, is recommended until a child is at least 2 years old.
In India, with a population of 1 billion, decades of maternal health programs have failed to dent significantly the high incidence of malnourishment among children, according to the World Bank, which says that more than half the children under 4 in India are severely malnourished and 60 percent of mothers are anemic. Put another way, 40 percent of all the world's malnourished children are Indian. Infant mortality in India is still high, at 79 for every 1,000 births.
In May, the new survey on the role of breast-feeding in nutrition and mortality was published jointly by a state demographer from South India and a specialist in population and health studies from the East-West Center in Honolulu.
The report looked at breast-feeding practices measured against not only infant mortality statistics but also social and economic factors in the lives of the mothers in three groups of high-mortality, medium-mortality and low-mortality Indian states. Breast-feeding is the norm everywhere in India and usually continues beyond infancy, providing a common backdrop for the survey.
While the authors -- Ravilla Anandaiah, demographer for the Tamil Nadu directorate of family welfare, and Minja Kim Choe, a senior fellow at the East-West Center -- did not dispute the value of breast-feeding, they wrote that the purpose of their survey was "to shed light on how infant survival in India can be improved by modifying infant-feeding practices and to evaluate the appropriateness of the W.H.O. guidelines for breast-feeding -- especially the guideline recommending exclusive breast-feeding up to 4 to 6 months."
The authors surveyed mothers of children born in the previous four years, asking them at how many months a baby was regularly given plain water, other milk, other liquids or solids or mushy food.
They found that almost everywhere, babies were being given supplementary liquids or solids at an age lower than international health officials had recommended, and that the food was apparently safe because the presence of supplementary food was not related to higher death rates. Advocates of only breast-feeding say that the risk of contamination, particularly by dirty water, rises when other foods are introduced.
The new survey found that in all mortality groups, both exclusive and nonexclusive breast-feeding seemed to lower mortality rates in the early months. But the benefits of exclusive breast-feeding dropped for older infants, the authors concluded, because "children's nutritional needs are not met completely by mother's milk after the first few months of infancy."
By 3 to 6 months in states with high mortality rates, the survey says, "mortality is higher among those who are breast-fed exclusively." In these high-risk states -- Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh -- "breast-feeding with supplements has the most beneficial effect on child survival." Mothers who breast-fed exclusively were the poorest, most illiterate and likely to be the most malnourished.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Breast-feeding alone may not be enough in countries like India, where some infants may need liquid supplements within their first three months. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: SOUTH INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (73%); HAWAII, USA (66%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (66%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (73%); HAWAII, USA (66%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: NURSING OF INFANTS; RESEARCH PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); BREASTFEEDING (91%); MALNUTRITION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INFANT MORTALITY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (86%); INFANT FORMULA (78%); PARENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); NUTRITION (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AIDS & HIV (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); VIRUSES (67%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



675 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: CABARET REVIEW;
A Woman of Many Faces, Not to Mention Outfits and Wigs

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
When she was a child growing up in South Carolina, Queen Esther recalls in her autobiographical cabaret show, "Queen Esther: Unemployed Superstar," she dreamed of becoming a slinky Las Vegas entertainer like Lola Falana and being a guest star on "The Mike Douglas Show." 
 Evoking that era, she dons a copper-colored wig and an evening gown to croon the bland 1970 ballad "It's Impossible," while parodying the vacant poses struck by lounge singers back then.
Since those days this singer and actress who appeared in the national tour of "Rent" has come far. "Unemployed Superstar" is the tale of her growing up, trying on and discarding pop-culture images from revolutionary black militant to tortured jazz singer and eventually deciding to be herself. Her story is strikingly similar to the one related by Kristen Childs in her recent Off Broadway show, "The Bubbly Black Girl Sheds Her Chameleon Skin."
Through it all Queen Esther exudes an impish charm that recalls the sorely missed comedian and performance artist Danitra Vance. But by the end of the show her musical identity remains undefined. Her nondescript versions of "The Lady Is a Tramp" and "Lush Life" fail to illuminate either the material or her ideas. And when she caps her show with two more vintage lounge songs, "I've Gotta Be Me" and "The Good Life," it isn't clear whether she's making fun of them or embracing them.
The best moments of "Unemployed Superstar," returning on Friday and Sept. 8 and 11 at Joe's Pub at 425 Lafayette Street in the East Village, are its nonmusical monologues in which Queen Esther impersonates embittered neighbors she met when she moved to Harlem. Characters like these could form the basis of an unsettling evening of serious political comedy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laughing at, or with? Queen Esther in her solo show at Joe's Pub, "Unemployed Superstar," about growing up and trying on and discarding pop-culture images. (Photographs by Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; QUEEN ESTHER (PERFORMER) QUEEN ESTHER (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



676 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Questions Raised by a Political Period Piece

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
Marc Blitzstein's musical position paper in defense of labor unions, "The Cradle Will Rock," is a period piece that begs an understanding of its period: the later years of the Depression when unions were exercising fresh muscles and being ferociously opposed by industrialists.
That a class war was imminent and apt to be kindled by Blitzstein's proud agitprop was the evident fear of the federal government, which had financed the show under the auspices of a New Deal agency, the Federal Theater Project, but withdrew its support at the last moment, shuttering the theater on opening night, June 16, 1937. 
 Thus was engendered one of theater history's most legendary show-must-go-on stories: the audience and the cast, led by the director, Orson Welles, and the producer, John Houseman, walked to another theater and performed the show anyway, with Blitzstein at the piano and the actors, forbidden by their unions to appear onstage, defiantly singing and reciting their lines from their seats in the auditorium.
This is all so melodramatic that it would seem to be unfathomable by today's theatergoers -- well, at least until a mayor threatens to shut down an art museum. But that aside, the times, the economy and the workplace obviously look different; our hot buttons are not the same. Art frightens some people now for other reasons; communism looms to almost no one as either threat or panacea. And no matter what you think of Nafta or how outraged by American companies exploiting foreign workers, the issue of labor versus management has evolved to be considerably cloudier than Blitzstein's good-versus-evil presentation.
In "Cradle" you're either fer us or agin us. And at a time when Al Gore is casting himself as a populist, the paradigms have obviously taken on some ambiguity.
Nonetheless, the new Off Broadway production of "Cradle" by the Jean Cocteau Repertory Company at the Bouwerie Lane Theater is steadfast in its championing of the original. The director, David Fuller, has imbued the show with an earnest nostalgia, even recalling the famous opening night with several scenes staged in the aisles of the tiny house, and having actors, on occasion, make their entrances through a side door from the street.
It all results in a production that is high-minded, energetic and amusingly quaint. Blitzstein's play is a story set in Steeltown, U.S.A., that pits a noble union organizer, Larry Foreman, against the powerful Mr. Mister, who owns the steel mill and holds the town's religious and civic leaders in his thrall. It consists of a series of scenes in which everyone who does not adamantly oppose Mr. Mister as corrupt -- the press, the clergy, the artists who fawn on his wife, Mrs. Mister, for her patronage -- are prostitutes, in the show's leading metaphor, except the woman who actually does sell her body because her virtue is sacrificed to need. She does it for food.
This is unsubtle stuff; its power comes from its righteous gall but the best this production musters is a sincere mimicking of a passion that was heartily felt long ago. Part of this has to do, perhaps, with the small theater; Blitzstein's grandiosity is necessarily writ small here. And perhaps it has to do with many in the cast (members of the Cocteau company, including a few interns), not being old enough to remember Ho Chi Minh, not to mention Mussolini.
The performers here understand well enough that Blitzstein intended acrid satire. But with a couple of exceptions (notably two longstanding company members, Elise Stone as Moll, the prostitute, whose performance has a lovely, plaintive quality, and Craig Smith as Mr. Mister, whose potency has just the slightest suggestion of puncturablility), the performances come across as glib. Their largely conventional sense of hyperbole feels on the one hand like guesswork at issue-driven passions that no longer make headlines. On the other hand they're not hyperbolic enough as if a post-modern irony has made the actors fearful of the show's bald display. Most notably, as Foreman, Jason Crowl sings well, but there's more contrived bluster than stage-holding heart about him.
Blitzstein's score, with its echoes of Weill and dissonant variations on popular forms, had a novel punch in its day, something that the Tim Robbins film of last year, "Cradle Will Rock," for all its show-biz romanticizing of the events leading up to the show's famous opening, satisfyingly preserved. Here, played behind the show's thin convictions by an onstage pianist, Charles Berigan, it has been robbed of its acerbic bite -- it doesn't help that not all the singers land consistently on Blitzstein's melodic astringencies -- leaving it feeling rather humorlessly fervent.
The humor, instead, is of another sort; in some furiously rendered interludes, Mr. Berigan takes on the aspect of a player behind a screened silent film, cranking up the tension when little Nell is tied to the railroad track.
In the end, it all feels terribly ardent, even entertainingly so, but with a whimsy that's probably unintended. It leaves the audience chuckling with the memory of how serious everything used to be.
 
THE CRADLE WILL ROCK
 
Book, music and lyrics by Marc Blitzstein; directed by David Fuller; musical direction by Charles Berigan; choreography by Barbara Brandt; sets by Mark Fitzgibbons; lighting by Izzy Einsidler; costumes by Irene V. Hatch. Presented by the Jean Cocteau Repertory, Mr. Fuller, producing artistic director. At the Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, East Village.
 
WITH: Elise Stone (Moll and Ella Hammer), Christopher Black (President Prexy, Junior Mister and Gus), Tim Deak (Editor Daily and Professor Mamie), Angela Madden (Mrs. Mister), Craig Smith (Mr. Mister), Jason Crowl (Larry Foreman) and Jennifer Herzog (Dick, Sister Mister, Sadie and Reporter One).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Herzog, left, and Elise Stone in "The Cradle Will Rock" from the Jean Cocteau Repertory Company. (Gerry Goodstein/"The Cradle Will Rock")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CRADLE WILL ROCK, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: JEAN COCTEAU REPERTORY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JEAN COCTEAU REPERTORY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (92%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; BLITZSTEIN, MARC (1905-1964); FULLER, DAVID AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



677 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1969 words

HEADLINE: That Sinking Feeling, Again

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

DATELINE: VENICE

 BODY:
Science often rests on chance discoveries. So it is that an American archaeologist studying the origins of Venice has stumbled on clues suggesting that a multibillion-dollar plan to build floodgates to save the city from rising waters is doomed.
"Be careful," Dr. Albert J. Ammerman warned as he pulled a tarp from an archaeological dig, freeing swarms of mud wasps. 
 The pit, 10 feet deep and more than 30 feet wide, had been dug next to an ancient basilica. The hole was below sea level, with a pump keeping it from filling with water. At its bottom lay one of the oldest known signs of human habitation in the Venetian archipelago -- a stone walkway dated to around the second century.
This and kindred discoveries show that, over the ages, people living here have had to haul in countless tons of dirt, silt, wood and stone to fortify their swampy isles and keep their homes and cities from disappearing into the sea. And the findings suggest that the floodgates plan -- one of the biggest public works projects of all time -- could produce as many problems as it solves, causing wide ecologic damage.
"You have to see this to understand how the ground builds up," said Dr. Ammerman, a Colgate University archaeologist who has studied the origins of Venice for more than a decade. That the city rests on millions of wooden stilts pounded into marshy ground is well known. But the surprising age and abundance of other kinds of supporting materials is only now coming to light, with large implications for public policy.
The lost world of artifacts and structures is letting Dr. Ammerman and his colleagues in Italy and the United States estimate both past and future rates of subsidence. The news is bad for a city whose famous piazzas and streets already flood with alarming regularity.
For complex reasons, the scientists say, Venice is sinking faster than ever and in the coming century the encroaching waters of the Adriatic Sea could devastate this celebrated city of art and architecture. The situation will only get worse if global warming causes seas to rise.
In fact, they say, surging waters will overwhelm the main way Italy is planning to fight the danger -- 79 mobile floodgates meant to cut off the Venetian lagoon and its islands from the highest of the high tides. The plan, drawn up decades ago and debated since then, is on the verge of approval by the Italian government. It is estimated to cost $2 billion to $4 billion, and has won backing from Italian companies eager for the work.
Dr. Ammerman, 58, an expert about things Venetian, has decided to air his findings widely in hopes of thwarting the project and spurring research on alternative ways of saving Venice, a cultural icon that 10 million people visit each year. It is also his home when he is not at Colgate, in Hamilton, N.Y.
His finds "are raising basic questions about the feasibility" of the mobile floodgates, he wrote last week in the journal Science. Saving the city will take fresh thinking, he added, perhaps through an international competition for new ideas.
"It's a test case for the future," said Charles E. McClennen, a Colgate geologist who aids Dr. Ammerman's inquiries here and who collaborated on the Science article. "We got into this research by accident. But now we see its general importance for cities in many coastal regions."
Dr. Ammerman's work is financed by Colgate, the Delmas Foundation, the Kress Foundation and the National Geographic Society.
That Venetians live a few precarious inches above sea level is evident to any visitor to this city of 117 islands. Its canals teem not only with gondolas and motorboats but fish large and small, as well as algae and seaweed. On hot summer days, the canals at low tide give off a pungent odor said to be based partly on decomposing sea life and partly on the outflows of ancient plumbing.
Every day, the tides here go up and down about three feet. Tides that are more extreme, known as "acqua alta," or high water, tend to occur between October and April and periodically inundate Venice, most alarmingly in 1966 when flooding caused wide damage and economic losses. The tidal surges are driven by heavy rains, winter weather patterns and southerly winds that blow Adriatic waters northward.
On many old buildings, the red bricks of the ground floors are coated by a patina of white -- corrosive sea salt soaked up by the absorbent bricks, which weakens them and causes them crumble.
Low wooden doors are often stained or rotted away at the bottom because of past flooding, and commercial shop doors often have metal guides that allow the quick installation of waterproof gates. Raised walkways are set up in in winter floods. And some tour books recommend high boots.
It was sheer accident that Dr. Ammerman came to delve into the origins of Venice, and that his work opened a new window on the dimensions of the flooding menace.
An environmental archaeologist trained at the University of London, he worked in Italy in the 1970's and 1980's studying sites around Parma, Calabria and Rome, including the Forum.
A specialty of his was extracting core samples and dating materials to better understand the original context of ancient objects and monuments.
In 1989, Dr. Ammerman was living in Venice, happy to have a break from Rome's gritty bustle, when Dr. Maurizia de Min, a senior archaeologist at Venice's Superintendency of Monuments, asked him for assistance. She was helping restore a church, San Lorenzo, and wanted him to probe beneath it.
"We hit stuff three feet down," he recalled. "We hit archaeological things. We moved lower. It was always the same -- layers of living and building materials."
"That was the turning point," Dr. Ammerman said. "We started to realize that there was a whole world down there that no one had ever imagined."
Historians have long known that Venice rose to power in the ninth century, its swampy isolation a bulwark against invaders, its location on the Adriatic a boon for trade. But the scientists managed to illuminate its lost infancy, going back more than 500 years further.
Through the 1990's, working closely with Dr. de Min and the Superintendency of Monuments, Dr. Ammerman investigated six sites in Venice and its lagoon. Each proved a revelation about past habitation and building practices, the evidence always surprisingly deep and speaking volumes about subsidence rates over the ages.
The most extensive dig was on Torcello, an island in the lagoon about a half hour's boat ride from Venice. Some of the first Venetians landed there while fleeing the barbarians.
During a recent visit to Torcello, Dr. Ammerman stepped carefully into the deep pit where the scientists had uncovered the low stone walkway dated to the second century. Pointing to an area higher up, and thus younger, he noted a stone hearth, dated to the sixth century, and, higher still, a road surface made of aligned stones, dated to about the seventh.
Given the ground's softness, he said, "people had to keep building up" or face destruction from encroaching tides and waves.
A major breakthrough in his work was understanding that the depth of such artifacts could yield a way to gauge old sea levels, and thus the rate of ground subsidence over the centuries.
For instance, Dr. Ammerman found that the second-century walkway, probably of Roman origin, had been erected near the edge of the island about 20 inches above what was then the sea level.
Back at his apartment in Venice, he displayed a long, clear plastic tube filled with a deep core sample recently taken from below the walkway area, its streaks of brown and yellow telling of its composition.
Scores of such samples and depth calculations have revealed the arc of accelerating subsidence since the Venetian lagoon formed 6,000 years ago. Dr. Ammerman calculates that, per century, human artifacts sank at a rate of about three inches, then five, then 10, with the fastest decline in the 20th century.
The causes of the speedup are complex, he said. Factors include local industry's pumping of water from beneath the Venice region (which has been stopped), the oxidation of peat that forms as part of the substrate, the compaction of spongy sediments under the growing weight of buildings and slow changes in plate tectonics and the region's geology.
In June 1999, Dr. Ammerman, Dr. McClennen, Dr. de Min and Dr. Rupert Housley of the University of Glasgow published an overview of their speedup findings in Antiquity, a top archaeology journal.
It was this research that led Dr. Ammerman to conclude that Italy's main solution to the flooding problem would not work because it was based on flawed estimates of the subsidence rate.
The floodgates, he reasoned, would have to close 94 to 150 times each year during high tides, destroying the lagoon's delicate ecological balance, basically cutting it off from the sea and its cleansing flows.
The floodgates would be built in lines at the entrances to the Venetian lagoon. Lying flat in housings on the seabed, they would in theory have no effect on shipping or regular tides. When storm surges were forecast, compressed air would be pumped into their hollow inner cavities, forcing out water and causing the hinged gates to tilt upward and rise to the surface to block incoming swells.
Since the worst tides come mostly in winter, Dr. Ammerman and Dr. McClennen wrote last week in Science, gate closure "will end up taking place repeatedly, day after day and week after week."
Defenders of the plan are unmoved, saying Dr. Ammerman is exaggerating the difficulties. Anyway, they say, if the water rises faster than expected, as Dr. Ammerman says it will, the barriers are all the more crucial.
"The gates become even more urgent if the worst scenarios are right," said Dr. Rafael L. Bras, an environmental engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who led an international assessment of the floodgate plan.
But in all likelihood, he said, the gates would have to close far less often than Dr. Ammerman foresees and would do little or no ecological harm.
The Consorzio Venezia Nuova, the bloc of Italian companies eager to build the floodgates, Friday denounced the Colgate researchers as "clearly less concerned with the validity of scientific data than they are with attempting to persuade the Italian government to withdraw the concession granted to Italian construction companies."
But Dr. Ahmet S. Cakmak, an emeritus professor of civil engineering at Princeton, who reviewed Dr. Ammerman's calculations on soil mechanics, strongly defended the archaeologist. "He has done a very careful study," Dr. Cakmak said yesterday in a telephone interview. "I support him completely."
John Keahey, a journalist writing a book about saving Venice, said Dr. Ammerman's arguments were "having a big impact" on Italian politicians. "They could use this as an excuse to delay a decision," Mr. Keahey said. "The government is in a struggle to survive, and they would probably rather use the money to give the citizens a tax break."
Dr. Ammerman said the Consorzio would rather attack him and spend money than face the facts.
"Everybody wants a silver bullet," he said. "But that doesn't exist," at least not yet.
Something may emerge in an international competition, he said. But in the meantime, Venice needs to continue what it has already started: raising sidewalks and canal walls, elevating power supplies and telephone lines and moving people out of the first floors of residences.
"People should do what people have always done here since the beginning, which is to build up the ground," Dr. Ammerman added, stressing the importance of old strategies. "This buys you time to work up a better solution that doesn't create equally bad problems."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Albert J. Ammerman, at a seawater-damaged building, says a floodgate plan to save Venice is doomed. (William J. Broad/The New York Times)(pg. F4)
 
Illustrations: (Steve Duenes/The New York Times; Illustrations by Al Granberg; Photographs by Gianni Tortoli/Photo Researchers San Marco , U.S. Geological Survey Satellite image of Venice )(pg. F1)
 
Chart: "Venice's Watery Burden"
As sea levels rise and flooding gets worse, researchers are examining how Venetians have built up the land in the past as they look for a solution to save the sinking city.
 
Graph: "FLOODING THIS CENTURY" shows exceptionally high tides in Venice from 1923-29 to 1990-99.
 
Graph: "BUILDING UP THE LAND" shows excavation records at five sites around Venice show how ground levels have been built up as sea levels have risen, and archaeological artifacts, pavements, floors or other surfaces found at each site on the map.
 
SEA LEVELS RISING
By determining the date of excavated artifacts, scientists can infer old sea levels and the rate at which sea levels rose though the centuries.
 
4000 B.C. TO A.D. 400
Rate of relative sea level rise (per century): 2.8 inches
 
A.D. 400 TO 1897
Rate of relative sea level rise (per century): 5.1 inches
 
2000 TO 2100 (PROJECTED: INCLUDES GLOBAL WARMING PREDICTIONS)
Rate of relative sea level rise (per century): 39 inches
 
FLOOD GATE PROPOSAL
Mobile flood gates would cut off the three entrances to the lagoon in the event of an extremely high tide. Frequent closings would harm the lagoon, some scientists warn. When the gates are to be raised, they will be pumped full of air, pushing them up to block the tide.
 
(Sources: Antiquity; Dr. Albert J. Ammerman, Colgate University; Consorzio Venezia Nuova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (90%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLGATE UNIVERSITY (82%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (82%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLGATE UNIVERSITY (82%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (82%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENICE (ITALY); ADRIATIC SEA; UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (90%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; FLOODS; LAND SUBSIDENCE ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J; AMMERMAN, ALBERT J (DR) ALBERT J AMMERMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



678 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Aid to Colombia: Unlearned Lessons

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Neighbors Fear Fallout of Aid to Colombians" (front page, Aug. 25): 
 The United States has apparently learned nothing from the horrors of El Salvador and Nicaragua, where vast amounts of military aid only served to intensify conflicts that neither side was going to win. Now, Congress and President Clinton have confirmed that they will make the same error in Colombia by sending $1.3 billion, almost all in military aid.
Haven't the last 20 years shown us that as long as there is a market for drugs in the United States, somebody will find a way to get them there? Cutting down on the demand side in the United States would do much more to curtail drug production than a bloody military campaign. By providing military aid rather than substantial social and economic assistance, the United States is missing an opportunity to address the real roots of insurgency and drug production in Colombia.
 
OSCAR ARIAS
San Jose, Costa Rica, Aug. 25, 2000
 
The writer, the former president of Costa Rica, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1987. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); COSTA RICA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); COSTA RICA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ARIAS, OSCAR BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



679 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
30-Year Issue In Biggest Fall In Six Weeks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The 30-year Treasury bond fell yesterday in its biggest one-day drop in six weeks as stocks rose and as analysts said government debt prices had become expensive after a summer rally.
The bond's yield has dropped about half a percentage point, and 10-year note yields are down nearly a full percentage point since early May, helped lower by signs of slower economic growth. That has fed speculation that six interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve in the last 14 months had been enough to keep inflation from accelerating. 
 "Treasuries are at levels that look extreme," said Douglas Johnston, chief government bond strategist at Lehman Brothers Inc. "The good news has already been priced in, so there is only one way for Treasury prices to go and that is down."
The 30-year bond fell 27/32, to 107 17/32, as the three major stock measures rose, damping demand for Treasuries, said James Caron, a Merrill Lynch fixed-income strategist. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.72 percent from 5.66 percent on Friday.
The 10-year note fell 12/32, to 99 27/32. Its yield rose to 5.77 percent, up from 5.72 percent on Friday.
A 2.6 percent rise in the cost of crude oil also hurt Treasuries on concern that higher energy costs might yet filter through to other parts of the economy. At $32.87, oil has risen 28 percent this year, with almost 20 percent of the gain coming in the month of August alone.
Selling by dealers to hedge against possible losses on an expected heavy load of corporate bond sales next week was yet another drag on prices, traders said.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.448	96.916	High Rate	6.14%	6.10%	Investment Rate	6.32%	6.38%	Low Rate	6.09%	6.05%	Median Rate	6.11%	6.08%	Total applied for	$28,444,901	$22,470,638	Accepted	$11,896,491	$9,545,638	Noncompetitive	$1,252,435	$1,132,726	
 
Both issues are dated Aug. 31. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 30, and the six-month bills mature on March 1, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the average discounted rate at weekly auction for 3-Month Treasury Bills since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (96%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



680 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Wachovia Bank Plans to Cut About 8% of Its Work Force

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Aug. 28

 BODY:
Wachovia, one of the nation's largest banks, plans to cut about 1,800 jobs -- or about 8 percent of its work force -- as part of a sweeping revamping intended to reduce expenses by $100 million a year.
The announcement today comes after similar cutbacks at North Carolina's two other largest banks, Bank of America and First Union, both based in Charlotte. All three companies have been looking for ways to improve efficiency. 
 "The resource realignment announced today is another step in a thoughtful process that will make Wachovia stronger and more competitive," said L. M. Baker Jr., the chairman and chief executive.
The job cuts will be spread throughout the company, which is based in Winston-Salem, and will include all levels of professional staff. To ease the effect on displaced employees, Wachovia will offer them severance packages, Mr. Baker said.
Wachovia, which has 21,300 employees, will take a pretax charge of $85 to $100 million, primarily to cover the severance costs. A substantial portion of the charge will be taken in the third quarter.
Shares of Wachovia were down 25 cents, to $56.75, on the New York Stock Exchange.
In June, First Union said that it would cut at least 3,500 jobs under a similar belt-tightening move that led it to close the Money Store, its home equity loan subsidiary.
Then in late July, Bank of America, said that it would cut as many as 10,000 jobs as it changed focus from growing through mergers to becoming more profitable through use of technology and operating efficiency.
Banks have faced an uphill climb in generating more revenue as interest rates have risen over the last year. The higher rates have made the cost banks pay for their money increase faster than banks have been able to increase their rates for loans or other assets, analysts say.
Wachovia has assets of $70.8 billion, ranking it among the top 20 banks in the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WACHOVIA CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WACHOVIA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



681 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Get the Easy Greenhouse Gases First

BYLINE: By Gregg Easterbrook; Gregg Easterbrook, a senior editor at The New Republic, is the author, most recently, of Beside Still Waters."

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md.

 BODY:
That North Pole ice has turned liquid may be the least of our problems. New studies have found that all Northern Hemisphere sea ice is melting at a rate of about 15 percent per decade and that the oceans as a whole are warming. Moreover, researchers have just identified a rare manufacturing byproduct, SF5 CF3, that represents the most potent greenhouse gas ever detected. The signs of global warming keep accumulating.
It's all so depressing; we must be doomed. Except that in the flood of distressing developments comes a breakthrough. A study led by James Hansen, the director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York, suggests that our basic understanding of greenhouse gases should be overturned -- and that reforms could be more practical and affordable than widely assumed. 
 Until recently, scientists studying global warming focused nearly all their attention on the deleterious effects of carbon dioxide, which is known to trap atmospheric heat. Every year, cars, trucks and power plants release billions of tons of carbon dioxide by burning fossil fuels. Some combination of advanced nuclear energy and clean renewable fuels may eventually change this; but for the next few decades, at least, continued buildup is inevitable. Even the ratification of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which would commit industrialized nations to cut greenhouse gas emissions, could not stop carbon dioxide buildup. If the treaty's rules went into effect (no major country has ratified it), rising carbon emissions from the developing world would outweigh any reductions in the West.
Enter Mr. Hansen's team to suggest that focusing on carbon dioxide is a fundamental error. Carbon dioxide is a concern, the study says, but other factors may be equally significant. Black soot from industrial smoke, for example, may turn out to be a leading warming force. (Basically it makes the atmosphere soak up more of the sun's heat, since black absorbs sunlight.) Compounds like SF5 CF3 , may be doing more damage than expected. And most of all, methane, which has far more heat-trapping power than carbon dioxide, may be a much greater greenhouse malefactor than today's scientific models assume.
Here is the beauty of Mr. Hansen's insight. While fossil fuels are an essential, much of the world's methane emissions have no economic utility; they are the unintended byproduct of natural-gas exploration, poor landfill management and gas-pipeline leaks. These sources could be eliminated with little sacrifice to our lifestyle or economic growth. Likewise, rare chemicals like SF5 CF3 , could be controlled without harm to industry.
Black soot emissions have already nearly disappeared from Western industry without any economic harm. Today such soot comes mainly from the developing world, where choking smoke rises from unregulated industry and from unelectrified homes that use fires for cooking and heating.
While regulating smokestack emissions and expanding access to electricity in developing nations would be an expensive undertaking, it would also be a huge boon. Public health as well as the environment would benefit. The World Health Organization says that more children in the developing world die each year from respiratory diseases caused by smoke and soot inhalation than all those who die each year in the United States and the European Union from all causes at all ages.
This breakthrough study of greenhouse gases comes from a guru of the environmental movement. In 1981, Mr. Hansen authored one of the first papers linking rising levels of carbon dioxide to rising global temperatures. Yet much of the environmental movement has greeted the new study with skepticism; many environmentalists worry that any lessening of fears regarding fossil fuels will hurt efforts to reduce global warming.
Rather than grousing about the Hansen study, however, environmentalists should be extolling it as the greatest news in years. First, it revives hope for the Kyoto agreement -- which, at the insistence of State Department negotiators and Vice President Al Gore, contains a little-noticed clause saying that reductions in other greenhouse gas can be substituted for cuts in carbon dioxide. A Kyoto treaty that is fixated on reducing fossil fuel use may never be ratified, but one that goes after methane and SF5 CF3 , seems eminently practical, politically.
Second, Mr. Hansen's study means that even if the Kyoto agreement is never ratified, affordable, realistic steps against global warming could start right away, without economic harm. A warming world need no longer be our destiny. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE GREENHOUSE GASES (94%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); METHANE (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); BIOFUELS (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); PARTICULATE MATTER (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (61%); LANDFILLS (50%); 

PERSON: EASTERBROOK, GREGG; HANSEN, JAMES JAMES V HANSEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



682 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Personal Spending Rises As Savings Rate Hits a Low

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Personal spending rose in July at twice the pace of incomes as consumers borrowed to make purchases and the savings rate fell to a record low, government figures showed today.
Spending on goods and services rose 0.6 percent last month, the largest increase since a 1.2 percent surge in February, as car and other retail sales increased. In June, spending rose 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department said. Incomes increased 0.3 percent in July after a rise of 0.4 percent the month before. 
 With consumer spending accounting for roughly two-thirds of the nation's output, the increase suggests that consumers will keep the record economic expansion going, even as six interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve since June 1999 appear to be slowing overall growth and helping keep inflation in check.
With unemployment close to a 30-year low, "there is little reason to believe that household confidence won't remain high and that spending won't continue unabated," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
The statistics are the first glimpse of personal consumption for the third quarter. In the previous three months, spending grew at a 2.9 percent annual pace, the slowest in three years. That followed a first quarter in which spending rose at a 7.6 percent rate, the best in 17 years, the Commerce Department said last week.
The personal consumption expenditures price index, a measure of inflation watched closely by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, rose 0.2 percent in July compared with a 0.3 percent gain in June.
As spending exceeded income growth, the savings rate fell to minus 0.2 percent in July -- the lowest since the records started in 1959 -- from 0.1 percent in June.
That means consumers are financing more of their purchases with credit cards or home equity loans. Consumer borrowing rose $12 billion in June after a $14.2 billion May increase, the Fed recently reported. That suggests further slowing in the economy could cause spending to cool along with it.
The savings rate accounts for neither capital gains from investments nor improvement in home values, something which consumers may be counting on to pay for future expenses, like retirement.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "Personal Income," tracks the total personal income, in millions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates since January 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (79%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); HOME PRICES (64%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



683 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Lingering Job Worries Amid a Sea of Plenty;
Trying to Cope With Changing Technology

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho

 BODY:
Gary Taylor was ready to be a free agent. Just as Internet job-search sites and articles in new-economy magazines encourage people to do, Mr. Taylor had decided to quit his job. In this high-desert city of low unemployment and fast growth, Mr. Taylor, a glass installer, thought he could find something much better.
Within six weeks of casting about, Mr. Taylor had an offer from a utility company to work on one of its growing number of temporary projects. And local technology companies had dozens of open jobs. But there seemed to be a problem with every prospect. Either it did not pay enough to support his wife and three children, he said, or it lacked the health-care benefits to cover them. 
 In the end, he stayed in his current line of work, though he found a higher paying job. His wife, meanwhile, went to work part-time as a secretary and insurance sales representative. "There are jobs out there," Mr. Taylor said, "but I found the wages were not high enough for me to switch industries and support a family. At 41 years of age, it's very difficult to step into a new field even in a booming economy."
Mr. Taylor represents the new face of the still-anxious American worker. Economists say few people fret over whether they can find jobs in the 10th year of the nation's longest stretch of uninterrupted economic growth. But many employees say they are concerned about whether they can keep up with technological change and take advantage of opportunities in the sort of new-economy companies that are transforming places like Boise. And many either fear what will happen to their current job or -- like Mr. Taylor -- have looked but did not find another employment opportunity good enough to persuade them to jump.
This new-style job anxiety does not cut as deeply as the pain felt all across what was called the Rust Belt in the 1980's, when waves of blue-collar workers lost jobs as one American industry after another retooled to face heightened foreign competition. And it does not carry the pathos of the early 1990's, when many white-collar employees faced downsizing during and after a recession that led to another round of efficiency-driven cutbacks.
Indeed, the constant turnover in today's job market is exciting for many young, well-educated workers.
But economists say that the lingering uncertainties within the nation's 140-million-strong work force help to explain why wage pressures, while on the upswing, remain more modest than they were in the milder and shorter economic booms of the recent past.
"The evident insecurity felt by workers," Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said recently, echoing similar comments he has made on several occasions, is probably a result of "a fear of job skill obsolescence."
This seems like a strange time for the issue to raise its head. The contradictions of the early years of the 1990's, when consumer spending, corporate profits and share prices all rose rapidly but the median wage was falling, have largely ended. A record percentage of Americans now say they think that jobs are plentiful, and the number of people with the confidence to quit voluntarily has steadily grown since 1996.
But if concerns over the availability of work have receded, worries over the quality of those jobs remain a signature part of the economy for many people. And while Americans acknowledge an abundance of jobs, a surprising number still report that they fear being laid off in the near future. Even in boomtowns like Boise -- with thriving high-technology companies and an unemployment rate of about 3.5 percent compared with the nationwide average of 4 percent -- corporate mergers and constant efforts to increase productivity have left many people uneasy.
All this stands in contrast to the previous record-long expansion in the 1960's. Back then, said Richard Curtin, the director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan, "the only issue with living standards was how fast they would improve."
The current tension between prosperity and insecurity is also playing a role in the presidential campaign, analysts said, as Vice President Al Gore has tried both to claim credit for the economy's strong performance and to soothe traditional Democratic Party constituencies who may not be keeping up with pledges to improve education and health care. George W. Bush, the Republican candidate, faces a similar tension in pushing a broad-based tax cut that is supposed to offer financial relief to the middle class, but that has been attacked as too generous to the wealthy and as an excessive drain on future budget surpluses.
"These times are generally very scary," said Marcia Craig, an executive assistant at Boise Cascade, who had to change jobs last year when her previous employer, Ore-Ida Foods, moved to Pittsburgh. "It seems that no matter what you've done, no matter how long you've done it, there are kids coming out of school that are going to knock your socks off," said Ms. Craig, who is raising two teenage boys.
In fact, a generation gap has emerged at work. Younger employees, particularly those with a strong educational background, often view today's job market as a giant bazaar where their skills are handsomely rewarded.
"My grandmother gets nervous every time I take a new job," said Jill Feeler, 30, who since 1996 has worked for a bank, a hospital and now for Hewlett-Packard, in the marketing department here. "She says, 'What about your pension?' I'm like, 'Pension, shmension. It's 401(k)'s, grandma.' "
Workers like Ms. Feeler, who has both a bachelor's degree and an M.B.A. from Boise State University, say it does not bother them that the bonds between companies and employees have loosened over the last decade. They have a hard time imaging spending 20 years with one employer anyway.
And they are grateful for all the pay raises and job offers many have received. Debra Bell, a recent engineering graduate of Brigham Young University, for instance, moved to Boise this summer with her sister and two friends. All quickly received full-time job offers, Ms. Bell, an engineer at Micron Technology, said, including the two who had not yet graduated from college and were coming to Idaho just for the summer.
For most older workers -- be they carpenters and government employees here who have received scant raises in recent years or bank managers watching their companies merge -- the changes are more unsettling. The message from companies, said Jerry Bresina, an employee of Idaho Power for the last 27 years, is: What you did yesterday is not good enough today.
"That's a tough pill to take," Mr. Bresina said, noting that Idaho Power has sent him to more classes in the last five years than in the previous 20 years altogether.
Mr. Taylor, the glazier, added, "I don't think we're humanly engineered for the stress level." With his wife planning to become a full-time worker this fall, their children can look forward to more "fish-stick and macaroni-and-cheese dinners," he said.
Aggravating the uncertainty, many workers say, are a number of trends that the low unemployment rate does not capture. People are working harder -- per family, three more hours a week than a decade ago, according to the Economic Policy Institute -- complicating other areas of life. And household debt is up while health insurance coverage is down, raising the stakes for people who do leave their jobs.
Boise, Idaho's capital, is a particularly poignant example of the contradictions. An old gold-mining town, Boise has evolved from a city filled with headquarters of manufacturing and food companies to one that boasts Micron, a semiconductor maker, as its largest employer and a Hewlett-Packard office of 4,000 workers.
The city "has transformed itself from a prototypical old-economy area to a new-economy area," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, a consulting firm in West Chester, Pa., which tracks regional statistics.
Help-wanted signs are common, despite an influx of new workers. The local economy, covering a metropolitan area of about 450,000 people, is growing more quickly than the rest of the nation, according to Economy.com. And compared with the rest of Idaho, where agriculture and heavy industry dominate, the city is wealthy and becoming more so.
But there is also churn in Boise. The most telling example may be Ore-Ida, a company that sells potatoes, the region's signature product, to the world and even has Idaho as part of its corporate name. Travelers who step off planes into the small airport here are still greeted by an advertisement for the company. "Welcome to Boise," it says. "A city we've been proud to call home for over a quarter-century!"
In reality, all that is left of Ore-Ida in Idaho -- besides the ad -- are four employees closing up shop in an office just east of downtown. H. J. Heinz, which owns Ore-Ida, has moved it to Pittsburgh over the last two years to combine it with its Weight Watchers frozen-food line to save money. Boise lost some 300 jobs in the process.
It is hardly the only turmoil here. West One Bancorp was bought by U.S. Bancorp in 1995, and First Security is disappearing into Wells Fargo. Hewlett-Packard has shed many of its production jobs but is adding white-collar workers. Albertson's, a fast-growing supermarket company based in Boise, has been trying to integrate its operation with the American Stores Company, which it bought last year.
Across the country, mergers have more than quadrupled in the last decade to about 8,000 a year, according to Mergerstat, leaving jobs in jeopardy in nearly every instance. And corporate relocations have roughly doubled in the last four years, according to Site Selection Magazine in Atlanta.
But to judge from Ore-Ida, losing a job today does not mean what it did a few years ago. Nearly all of the company's former employees seem to have received job offers elsewhere. A surprising number are earning a salary close to their old one, say both the workers and Bae Emilson, a consultant with the outplacement firm Drake Beam Morin that Heinz is paying to help the employees with their job search.
While they say they miss their old colleagues, some even consider Ore-Ida's departure to be a good development. "Almost every single person I know says this is the best thing that has happened to them," Ms. Craig said. Her salary at Boise Cascade is slightly lower than what Ore-Ida was paying her, and her new job as an executive assistant is a notch lower. But she finds the work more creative -- a discovery she suspects she never would have made had she not been laid off.
At the same time, the Ore-Ida alumni agree that few of them will ever feel as secure in their jobs as they once did. That view is common in Boise, not just among those who have had to change jobs but also with those who have only heard about dislocation through friends or the local newspaper.
Ms. Craig said she now keeps her resume updated, especially after Boise Cascade considered eliminating her department only weeks after she arrived. "I have a different attitude," she said.
Miren Lolley, who ran Ore-Ida's information technology department, has decided to use her severance pay to take about a year off after working for the company for 21 years. Then she hopes to become a consultant so she can control her own schedule, leaving time to eat lunch and dinner with her friends and two sons, as she has been able to do since Ore-Ida left.
In the future, Ms. Lolley said, she wants to avoid working long hours for a company without knowing whether her job is secure. "Nobody," she said, "trained us for that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The jobless rate in Boise, Idaho, is around 3.5 percent while the national rate is around 4 percent. But families are working more hours a week than a decade ago. (Associated Press); "These times are generally very scary," said Marcia Craig, an executive assistant at Boise Cascade, who changed jobs last year when her previous employer, Ore-Ida Foods, moved to Pittsburgh. (Troy Maben for The New York Times)
 
Graph tracks the percentage of Americans who say "jobs are plentiful" since 1979.
 
Graph tracks the percentage of unemployed who left jobs voluntarily since 1979.
 
Graph tracks the percentage of Americans who are "frequently concerned about being laid off" since 1979.
(Sources: Conference Baord; Bureau of Labor Statistics; International Survey Research)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ORE-IDA FOODS; HEINZ, H J, FROZEN FOOD CO BOISE CASCADE SALES LTD (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORE-IDA FOODS; HEINZ, H J, FROZEN FOOD CO BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE (IDAHO); IDAHO; UNITED STATES (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); BOISE, ID, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HIRING AND PROMOTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); TRENDS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: CRAIG, MARCIA; TAYLOR, GARY; LEONHARDT, DAVID GENE TAYLOR (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



684 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Labor Group Plans Housing For Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. will undertake an ambitious effort to create thousands of housing units for middle- and low-income workers, its president announced yesterday.
Denis M. Hughes, the labor federation's president, said many union members were having a hard time finding housing they could afford, notwithstanding a decade-long economic boom. He said the state A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents more than two million union members, plans to work with nonprofit developers and community and political leaders to create an independent agency that would build housing. 
 "The time has come to gain affordable, safe housing for our members and their families," Mr. Hughes said.
Mr. Hughes said he hoped to name a group of experts to set up and run the agency. He also suggested that money from union pension funds might be used to finance construction of housing units around the state.
Mr. Hughes announced the housing plan during the federation's convention at the Sheraton New York Hotel in Midtown Manhattan, where he was re-elected as the federation's president.
Mr. Hughes also announced an initiative to pressure the State Legislature for a law requiring all employers to give workers at least one day off every week. Many farm workers in upstate New York complain that they often toil up to four weeks in a row without a day off.
Last year, the state labor federation failed to win passage of such a law.
Yesterday, convention delegates also heard from Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic nominee for the Senate.
Mrs. Clinton said that if the union leaders in the audience worked hard to elect her in November, she would work hard to represent the interests of union members.
Mrs. Clinton tailored her speech to the union audience, which responded enthusiastically. She said she wanted tougher job safety laws, more money for the National Labor Relations Board and laws to make it easier to organize more workers.
Mr. Hughes pledged the labor movement's support to Mrs. Clinton. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); AFL-CIO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HOUSING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); FARM LABOR (53%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HUGHES, DENIS M HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



685 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Chief of MP3.com Testifies in Music Copyright Hearing

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
With his Internet music start-up facing potentially hundreds of millions of dollars in damages for copyright violations, the head of MP3.com told a federal judge in Manhattan yesterday that he believed he was acting legally when he created an online database of thousands of copyrighted record albums.
The testimony from Michael Robertson, MP3.com's chief executive, came at the first day of hearings in a trial pitting his company, a San Diego-based start-up, against the Seagram Company's Universal Music Group, the world's largest record company. The trial began after negotiations over the weekend failed to produce a settlement. 
 The judge in the case has already ruled that MP3.com infringed upon Universal's copyrights, but the size of the damages in the case will depend on whether the court determines the action was "willful."
Universal and four other major record company sued MP3.com in January, but the other companies have since settled. In the original suit, filed in January, the companies asserted that MP3.com violated their copyrights with the creation of the service called My.MP3.com.
The service created an "online locker," permitting users to store their music albums centrally on MP3.com's computers, then get access to them through various digital devices, like computers or portable music players.
To make the service easy to use, MP3.com did not require users to load their own music into the virtual lockers. Rather, a user had merely to insert a copy of the music into the CD-ROM drive of a computer, at which point, MP3.com would verify that the person had possession of a CD, then the company would automatically put a copy of the music into the person's virtual locker.
MP3.com amassed 65,000 albums to create the database from which it drew its music. However, the record companies, in their lawsuit, asserted that the company had violated their copyrights by creating the digital database of albums to which they held the copyrights. In April, Federal District Judge Jed S. Rakoff found in favor of the record companies, ruling that MP3.com had infringed upon the companies' copyrights.
In the ensuing months, MP3.com reached settlements with four of the major record companies, including Sony Music, Time Warner, the EMI Group and Bertelsmann A.G. Details of the settlements were not made public, but analysts estimated that MP3.com paid $20 million to each company. Eric Scheier, an industry analyst with Forrester Research, speculated that Universal had not yet settled for one or both of two reasons: because as the biggest record company it wants a larger settlement; or because it has intentions to start a competing service with My.MP3.com and does not want to license its content to MP3.com, a provision that has been a component of the settlements with the other record companies.
Universal may not want to license music to "MP3.com or more generally to anybody they don't feel they can control or express a lot of authority over about what kind of business models are going to be used," Mr. Scheier said. A spokesman for Universal Music Group declined to comment. Universal is an investor in MusicBank, a company that has said it plans to start a virtual locker business sometime in the fall.
At yesterday's hearing, Mr. Robertson told the court that he believed the My.MP3.com service was respectful of the record companies' copyrights. "Nothing I had looked at suggested this was illegal use or a copyright violation," he said, according to a report by the Dow Jones news service.
The hearing, which is scheduled to continue through Thursday, will provide the basis for Judge Rakoff to assess damages against MP3.com. People close to the trial said that if the judge decided the action was willful, MP3.com could face damage payments of $750 to $150,000 for each album infringement. If the judge finds the conduct not willful, the damages could range from $750 to $30,000. People familiar with the case said that MP3.com's database included roughly 10,000 albums that are the copyrighted works of Universal.
MP3.com in May suspended the My.MP3.com service, which it said had roughly 500,000 participants.
The hearing comes as the music industry continues to fight on other legal fronts, notably in its battle against Napster, a popular service that permits individual users to exchange music files online. It is a practice the music industry asserts amounts to theft. The industry's case against Napster is being handled in federal court in San Francisco. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (71%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP; MP3.COM CBS INTERACTIVE INC (92%); EMI GROUP LTD (84%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (71%); BERTELSMANN AG (62%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP; MP3.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COPYRIGHTS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET COPYRIGHT (93%); INTERNET AUDIO (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERTSON, MICHAEL; RICHTEL, MATT

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



686 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Cashing In on a New Era of Opulence;
School Seeks Home Buyers Who Want to Live Like Vanderbilts

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The Lycee Francais de New York, the prestigious school that attracts Europeans and American Francophiles, is selling all six of its buildings on the Upper East Side.
The school expects to sell the buildings to wealthy people who want to restore them to single-family homes. And the school hopes to make big profit, more than $100 million, on the sale, enough to create an endowment and build a new school. 
 Once considered too costly for private use, town houses are making a comeback as private residences in a new era of opulence that has left investment bankers, Internet entrepreneurs and investors flush with cash from the longest economic boom in history.
Many people are finding it increasingly difficult to afford Manhattan's skyrocketing housing prices, but it appears that there is no limit to what some well-heeled buyers will pay to restore the wood-paneled libraries, grand staircases, marble fireplaces and bedrooms of the fancy old houses, which had been carved into apartments, retail stores, museums and school buildings during the last 70 years. And with names like Vanderbilt, Gould, Pulitzer and McKim, Mead & White embedded in the schools buildings, brokers expect a rash of bidders.
"Many of these properties are going to be bought by private individuals, Wall Street money," said Jed Garfield, a broker at Leslie J. Garfield & Company, which specializes in town house sales. "There's no question that the dollars in private purchasers' pockets today are deeper than those of the institutions. It's an end of an era for some of these institutional buildings."
In the first six months of this year, the average price for a town house on the West Side climbed 34 percent to $2.9 million. During the same period, houses on the Upper East Side sold for $4.4 million, or $814 a square foot, up 19 percent from a year ago, according to the Corcoran Group. In contrast, the average price of a condominium on the Upper East Side is $673 a square foot.
Although it is rare that six houses would come on the market at once, real estate brokers said that the school's portfolio was not expected to dampen prices, because there are so few buildings available.
In June, an investment banker who took early retirement from Goldman Sachs paid $5 million for the town house at 25 East 92nd Street, between Fifth and Madison Avenues. The house had been divided into five condominiums. The buyer plans to knock down the walls and make a home for his family.
Last month, Benny Shabtai, president of Raymond Weil-Seville Watch Corporation, paid $8.2 million for the town house at 870 Park Avenue, between 77th and 78th Streets. The house has a three-story atrium, fireplaces, a library and a spiral staircase leading to five bedrooms.
This year, the architect Emilio Ambasz put a $23 million price tag on his five-story Beaux-Arts house at 8 East 62nd Street, near Fifth Avenue. He bought it eight years ago for $3.2 million.
Elsa Berry, who heads the board at Lycee Francais, said it was hard to part with the school's six illustrious old buildings, which sit in two clusters on the Upper East Side and serve 1,000 students.
But, she said, the buoyant real estate market provided the school with an opportunity to create an endowment and to build a new and more efficient, if less historic, school building at a single location. The school is negotiating to buy a site on either the Upper East Side or the Upper West Side for a 115,000-square-foot school building, nearly double the current space. According to one broker, the school is close to a deal for a site in the East 80's.
"We're trying to improve our operations from a technological standpoint and add new facilities for sports, student lounges and a cafeteria," said Ms. Berry, who attended the Lycee Francais as a girl and now runs the corporate finance department for BNP Paribas, a French investment bank. "The board is working aggressively on a long-term strategic plan."
Many small institutions and private schools like the Lycee Francais in Manhattan are land rich but cash poor. The school's plan allows it to tap into its biggest asset. Richard Speciale, a managing partner at Aequitas, a real estate investment firm, is advising the school on its financial plan. He said that after selling the buildings, the school would make the annual payments on a tax-exempt bond for a new school from tuition payments and interest from the endowment fund.
Lycee Francais was founded in 1935 by Count Charles de Ferry de Fontnouvelle, the French consul general at the time; Forsythe Wicks, a businessman who was president of the Alliance Francaise; and Paul Windels Sr., the city's corporation counsel. The school's alumni include Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art; Michel David-Weil, managing partner of Lazard Freres & Company, and Danielle Steel, the novelist.
Designed to be similar to a French lycee, the school emphasizes a classical education, including Latin and Greek. Instruction is primarily in French, although the school does provide an understanding of American language and culture. Ms. Berry said that 40 percent of the school's students are the children of French diplomats or business executives, and 40 percent are American, with 48 other nationalities accounting for the rest.
Paul J. Massey Jr., a partner at Massey Knakal Realty Services, who is handling the sale of the Lycee Francais buildings, said that he expected at least half of them to be sold to house buyers. "People are astounded that this many buildings would come on the market at once," he said. "There's a pattern that's been building for 10 years of people reclaiming these buildings."
The most valuable building owned by the lycee is the Henry T. Sloane residence at 9 East 72nd Street, which is regarded by architects as one of the finest Beaux-Arts town houses in the city. The landmark five-story structure, which has an intricately carved limestone facade, Ionic columns and French windows, was built in 1896 by Sloane, son of the founder of the W.& J. Sloane furniture store. But he lived there only briefly before a scandalous divorce in 1898.
Joseph Pulitzer, the newspaper publisher, lived there before it was bought in 1901 by James Stillman, president of the National City Bank, then one of the most important commercial banks in the world. Mr. Stillman worked closely with William Rockefeller, a founder of Standard Oil, and Jacob H. Schiff and Edward H. Harriman in reorganizing American railroads.
But starting in the late 1920's, most tycoons abandoned such luxurious town houses for more fashionable estates in the Long Island and Westchester countryside or for duplexes on Park and Fifth Avenues. Too costly to maintain, the buildings were demolished or converted into apartments, stores or museums. In the course of the conversions, many of the original details and fixtures were lost to history, although the lycee's buildings remain in relatively good shape.
"It doesn't matter," Mr. Garfield said. "Most people are gut-renovating everything anyway."
The lycee is also selling the Oliver Gould Jennings mansion, a Beaux-Arts house next door at 7 East 72nd Street, named after the man who built it in 1899 who was a director of Bethlehem Steel and the National Fuel Gas Company.
The third property, at 60 East 93rd Street, was built in 1931 for Virginia Graham Fair Vanderbilt, a racehorse breeder and former wife of William Vanderbilt, the railroad tycoon. Her father was Senator James Fair of Nevada, who made a fortune from the Comstock Lode and the Big Bonanza mine. The limestone building resembles a French hotel during the reign of Louis XV and once housed the Romanian Mission to the United Nations. Each of the voussoirs, or wedge-shaped stones in the arches, has the face of a different woman carved into it.
The fourth site is a neo-Classical-style limestone building with a mansard roof at 3 East 95th Street. It resembles a Parisian town house and was commissioned by Marion B. Carhart, after the death of her husband, Amory S. Carhart, a banking and railroad executive. She died shortly after its completion, in 1917. The school is also selling the adjoining three-story building at 5 East 95th Street and a limestone building at 12 East 73rd Street that was built in 1920 by Henry Allan Jacobs.
"These are beautiful buildings," Ms. Berry said, "but the huge hallways and grand staircases are not suited for a modern school."
In the end, one former student and some brokers lamented, the school may well lose some of the cachet of old New York as it moves to a modern home.
"You get a sense of history going to school in mansions," Mr. Garfield said. "But I'm sure the new building will be more efficient."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lycee Francais plans to sell six buildings on the Upper East Side, including town houses at 7 and 9 East 72nd Street, top left. Students, far left, browsed through supplies at the 72nd Street site, where a classroom, left, awaited the opening of school. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B1); 60 East 93rd Street was built for Virginia Graham Fair Vanderbilt. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Chart: "UP FOR SALE: Properties of the Lycee Francais"
The six buildings owned by the Lycee Francais de New York that are up for sale:
 
Building: Henry T. Sloane residence
Address: 9 East 72nd Street
Size: 25,363 sq. ft.
Asking price: $30,000,000
 
Building: Oliver Gould Jennings mansion
Address: 7 East 72nd Street
Size: 18,256
Asking price: $21,000,000
 
Building: Marion B. and Amory S. Carhart mansion
Address: 3 East 95th Street
Size: 21,805
Asking price: $19,500,000
 
Building: Virginia Graham Fair Vanderbilt mansion
Address: 60 East 93rd Street
Size: 20,205
Asking price: $17,000,000
 
Building: Lycee building
Address: 5 East 95th Street
Size: 12,150
Asking price: $10,300,000
 
Building: Henry Allan Jacobs house
Address: 12 East 73rd Street
Size: 11,315
Asking price: $8,000,000
(Source: Massey Knakal Realty Services, Inc.)(pg. B4)
 
Map of Manhattan shows location of 6 properties listed in chart above. (pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LYCEE FRANCAIS DE NEW YORK GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LYCEE FRANCAIS DE NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER EAST SIDE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); RETAILERS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



687 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: REPUBLICAN LEADER MAKES CONCESSION ON MINIMUM WAGE

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT with LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert today offered significant concessions to Democrats on a plan to raise the federal minimum wage, moving to end months of stalemate on a popular bill that Republicans feared could damage them at the polls.
The House and Senate earlier this year approved an increase in the minimum wage by $1 to $6.15 an hour, with the increase coming in 50-cent increments over two years in the House version and smaller annual amounts over three years in the Senate bill. The conflicting bills then stalled in the conference committee that was supposed to reconcile them, raising fears among some Republicans that they they were handing Democrats a potent campaign issue. 
 In a letter to President Clinton today, Mr. Hastert sought to take that threat off the table. He agreed to the Democrats' demands to spread the $1 increase over two years, but insisted on $76 billion in tax cuts for small business over 10 years to help these companies pay "the costs of this wage increase."
In another concession, Mr. Hastert proposed dropping pension provisions and a repeal of the estate tax that were attached to the minimum wage bill by House Republicans and that Democrats had criticized as a giveaway to wealthy Americans. Both of these provisions, however, have moved through the Congress on separate tracks and now must be dealt with on their own.
"It is very clear that a vast majority of congressional Democrats and Republicans would like to see a balanced approach before we adjourn," Mr. Hastert said.
Mr. Hastert's proposal makes the minimum wage, in effect, the opening issue among Democrats and Republicans in Congress when they return next week from their late-summer recess.
White House officials and Democratic leaders in Congress expressed cautious optimism that both parties would agree in the next month to raise the minimum wage for the first time since 1996. Officials signaled that a compromise could be reached on the Republican insistence on the small-business tax cuts.
"If at long last the Republicans are serious about dropping many of their roadblocks to a $1 increase over two years, then that's good news," Gene Sperling, head of the White House's National Economic Council, said in an interview. "There still remain some obstacles, but the president stands ready to work in good faith with Congress to get a bill he can sign."
Mr. Hastert's letter reflects his desire to turn a political liability into a virtue in time for the fall elections.
The initiative for the minimum wage offer came from Mr. Hastert and reflects how House Republicans feel more politically vulnerable on the issue than their Senate counterparts. Mr. Hastert said that Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, shared his views, but only the speaker signed the letter.
A spokesman for Senator Lott, John Czwartacki, said he had not seen Mr. Hastert's letter but added, "Senator Lott supports moving the minimum wage increase as long as it's tied to small-business tax relief."
In another sign that Mr. Hastert is seeking to secure his legislative gains for the bruising fall elections, the speaker is also paring back on the tax-cut proposals that he will press for, cuts for married couples and retirement savings.
Mr. Hastert's offer comes just days after Governor George W. Bush found himself defending his proposed tax cut, and admitting that he needed to do a better job of promoting it.
Scott McClellan, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said the Texas governor supported a $1-an-hour increase in the minimum wage although he did not know if Mr. Bush supported the specific details in the compromises being discussed by Mr. Hastert and the Democrats.
Congressional Democrats greeted Mr. Hastert's offer cautiously, and seemed tempted to milk even more political mileage out of his political predicament.
"The proposal that the speaker made was in the right direction," said Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the second-ranking House Democrat and a sponsor with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts of the Democrats' original $1-over-two-years bill.
The Republicans "are high on the tax relief side and low on the benefit to minimum-wage workers," Mr. Bonior added, "but it is my view that we can work this out and we can get a bill by sometime next month."
Mr. Bonior noted that the current minimum wage, $5.15 an hour, has lost purchasing power in the more than two years since since he and Mr. Kennedy first asked Congress for the additional $1 increase.
The $5.15 would have to rise by 24 cents to restore its 1998 purchasing power, according to an estimate furnished by Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute. The minimum wage reached its greatest purchasing power in 1968 when it was worth the equivalent of $7.49 in 1999 dollars.
Before Mr. Hastert beat them to the punch, going public with the Republican proposal, the Democrats had been discussing a revision of their original bill, one that would increase the minimum wage by more than $1. The aim was partly to restore the lost purchasing power and partly to answer the Republican insistence on raising the wage over three years instead of over two.
Mr. Hastert's proposal of a $76 billion tax cut for small business drew criticism from Mr. Bonior, who said that it was almost four times greater than the $20 billion in tax relief that the Republicans had sought in 1996, the last time Congress approved a minimum wage increase.
The Republican proposal would also remove from minimum wage coverage some workers now covered by the law.
"After three years of foot-dragging, Republicans appear ready to sign on to a wage increase for the lowest paid workers," Senator Kennedy said. "But their proposal is loaded with poison pills and oversized tax breaks for the wealthy."
Some House Republicans, however, criticized Mr. Hastert for compromising at all. "I've never been in favor of bargaining on the minimum wage," said Representative John Shadegg, an Arizona Republican who voted against the wage increase in March. "The package does not give businesses anywhere near the relief they're going to need."
In his weekly radio address on July 29, just before the Republican National Convention, Mr. Clinton appealed to Republicans to break the wage impasse.
"If Republican leaders really want to make their compassion count, they ought to join me in getting back to business and raising the minimum wage," Mr. Clinton said.
An increase in the minimum wage, to $6.15 an hour, would affect 10.1 million workers who now earn between $5.15 an hour and $6.14, and millions more who earn up to $6.70 an hour and would enjoy raises to maintain their margin over the new minimum wage, economists say.
Two-thirds of the 10.1 million directly affected workers are over age 20, often a family's principal earners, while one-third are teenagers. When Congress voted in 1996 to raise the minimum in two annual steps, to $5.15 an hour on Sept. 1, 1997, from $4.25, there was much concern that millions of low wage workers would lose their jobs because they lacked enough skills to justify higher pay.
But the 1996 increases came just as the economy began to boom, and the unemployment rate, instead of rising, fell steadily. Now, the concern over job loss is muted, the argument being that the strong economy is raising the pay of low-skilled workers anyway.
"The modest proposal people are talking about -- $1 over two years -- is pretty close to what would happen anyway in the marketplace," said Kevin Murphy, a labor economist at the University of Chicago, who had argued in 1996 that the proposed increase in the minimum wage, to $5.15 an hour, would cost jobs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 325 FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 1999 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE; TAXATION; WILLS AND ESTATES; SMALL BUSINESS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS MINIMUM WAGE (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAX LAW (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ESTATE TAX (74%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); WILLS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER) TRENT LOTT (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



688 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
U.S. Believes Submarine Was Sunk by Bad Torpdeo
Acoustical tapes made by the American submarine Memphis in the Barents Sea and by other vessels are the source of the American theory that a faulty torpedo caused the explosion that sank the Russian submarine Kursk, American officials said. They said the evidence did not support Russian suggestions that a collision with another sub, a ship or some other object had occurred. A1
 
High-Altitude Moscow Fire
Firefighters worked for nearly 26 hours to put out a blaze that engulfed the 1,772-foot Ostankino television tower, Europe's tallest structure and Moscow's communications hub. Two people were known to have died and a third was missing. A10 

Retrial for New Yorker in Peru
A military tribunal has rescinded the life sentence of Lori Berenson, 30, a New York woman accused of terrorism and treason, and granted her a new trial in civilian courts. But human rights organizations cautioned that the decision did not mean she would get a fair trial. In 1996, Ms. Berenson was tried in secret before a tribunal of military judges wearing ski masks to conceal their identities. Her lawyers were not permitted to cross-examine witnesses. A1
 
U.S. Chides Cuba Over Visas
The State Department accused Cuba of causing widespread suffering by refusing to let Cubans leave the island even if they held United States visas. Separately, officials said, the United States has told Ricardo Alarcon, the president of the Cuban National Assembly, that he cannot attend a meeting of international lawmakers at the United Nations. A8
 
Mexico Anti-Abortion Bill
The governor of Guanajuato has sent back to the state congress for further study a bill that would have made the state the only one to extend the ban on abortions to cases of rape. The governor's aides said the action amounted to a veto. Abortion rights groups hailed the move as a rebuff to conservative politicians and church leaders seeking to chip away at already limited rights to abortion. A3
 
Burundi Negotiations Snagged
Negotiations to end a seven-year civil war became bogged down when some Tutsi minority parties refused to sign a deal with the Hutu majority, dashing President Clinton's hopes of witnessing the signing of a major peace deal and cease-fire. A8
 
Warrant Dismissed in Turkey
A state security court in Istanbul dismissed an arrest warrant for Fetullah Gulen, an Islamic leader accused by prosecutors of trying to overthrow the secular government. A4
 
New Effort on Kosovo Violence
Britain's Royal Marines spearheaded a campaign against ethnic violence in Kosovo after a series of killings of Serbs underlined the failure of NATO-led forces to stem ethnic violence in the province. The new commander of peacekeeping troops in the central region of Kosovo announced that fixed checkpoints would be replaced by patrols to seek out troublemakers. A8
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A14-20
 
House Speaker Yields On Raising Minimum Wage
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert offered key concessions to Democrats on raising the federal minimum wage to $6.15 an hour, moving to end a stalemate on an issue that Republicans feared could hurt them at the polls. A1
 
Support for Scouts Cools
Corporate and governmental support for the Boy Scouts has slipped in the two months since the Supreme Court ruled that the Boy Scouts have a constitutional right to exclude gays. A common concern is that by contributing to or allowing a group that bans gays to use facilities, a government or business may be violating local antidiscrimination statutes or corporate rules. A1
 
Whitewater Inquiry Timetable
Robert W. Ray, the independent counsel, said he expected to issue a statement of his findings and conclusions about the Whitewater investigation a few weeks before New York voters go to the polls to choose between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio, her Republican opponent for the United States Senate. He also said he would wait until shortly after President Clinton left office to announce whether he would seek an indictment of Mr. Clinton in connection with his affair with a White House intern. A1
 
Gore Names Drug Companies
Vice President Al Gore escalated his attacks on the pharmaceutical industry, calling for greater competition and singling out Schering-Plough, which makes the allergy medication Claritin, and American Home Products, the parent of Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, which makes Lodine, an arthritis medicine. A19
 
Religion and Politics
The Anti-Defamation League asked Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman to avoid "overt expressions" of religious belief on the campaign trail because, in a political context, they are "contrary to the American ideal." A19
 
Bush Assails Gore on Schools
Gov. George W. Bush said the Clinton administration had complacently presided over "a national tragedy" of public school decline. He also said would unveil a proposal next week to have the government subsidize prescription drug purchases by the low-income elderly. A19
 
Bush Balks on Debate Plans
The Bush campaign has raised objections over format, one site and network coverage of three presidential debates proposed by an independent commission that has set up such debates since 1988. A20
 
EDUCATION
 
Higher Test Scores for Blacks
Black public school students who switched to private schools on scholarships similar to vouchers performed significantly higher on standardized math and reading tests than similar students who remained in public schools, a study found. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Judge Allots $8 Million In Settlement of Attica Suit
A federal judge divided up an $8 million settlement to compensate more than 500 families for abuse inflicted on inmates by the state police during the 1971 Attica prison uprising that left 43 people dead. A1
 
Lazio Makes Tax Returns Public
Aides to Representative Rick A. Lazio provided limited access to 10 years of the congressman's federal and state returns, in an effort to end speculation about his finances and pressure from the Democrats. B1
 
Man Stole Houses, Officials Say
Brooklyn prosecutors said a Long Island man, Kevin Walker, 35, forged deeds that he used to get $900,000 in mortgage loans and to sell some of the properties to unwitting buyers for a total of more than $700,000. B1
 
School for Sale
The Lycee Francais de New York, the prestigious school that attracts Europeans and American Francophiles, is selling its six buildings on the Upper East Side to create an endowment and build a new school. B1
 
Arts Center for Woodstock
Governor Pataki said the state would contribute $15 million toward a $40 million performing arts and music center on the site of the first Woodstock festival in Bethel, N.Y. B1
 
Board Scolds Safir for Trip
The city's Conflict of Interest Board publicly rebuked former Police Commissioner Howard Safir for accepting a free trip to the Academy Awards last year from the chief executive of Revlon. B2
 
FASHION B8
 
ARTS E1-8
 
OBITUARIES A21
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Study Questions Heart Drug
The second-most popular kind of drug used to lower high blood pressure, calcium channel blockers, has been shown to be less effective than other drugs in preventing heart attacks and heart failure. A17
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Concern for Venezuela Tires
Bridgestone/Firestone asked its dealers in Venezuela to return to the factory any unsold 15- and 16-inch light truck tires made there. But the tiremaker rebuffed Ford's request for a recall of identical tires already in use on vehicles in Venezuela, Colombia and Ecuador. C1
 
New Bailout Deal Sought
Rizal Ramli, Indonesia's new economic czar, said the I.M.F. had become overly involved in the nuts and bolts of the country's economy in the course of its $43 billion bailout. He said the agreement with the I.M.F. should be renegotiated. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-7
 
Doping Tests for Olympics
The International Olympic Committee's executive board approved plans for testing for the banned synthetic hormone EPO at the Summer Games in Sydney, Australia. D1
 
U.S. Open Tennis
Martina Hingis, Venus Williams, Monica Seles, Jennifer Capriati and Pete Sampras all won their matches on a soggy opening day. D1
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Prayers at football games; endorsements for the Bronx; a C.I.A. cover-up on Chile; transgender rights.
 
Columns: Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WITNESSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); ABORTION (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARRESTS (76%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); FIRES (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); TREASON (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); CIVIL WAR (73%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); VETO (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); SENTENCING (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); JUDGES (68%); RELIGION (66%); ARREST WARRANTS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



689 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: WORLD TRADE;
W.T.O. RULES AGAINST U.S.

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Olson 

 BODY:
A World Trade Organization panel has upheld an earlier ruling requiring the United States to change an 84-year-old law that penalizes foreign companies for dumping low-priced goods on its markets. Two years ago, the European Union and Japan challenged the 1916 Anti-Dumping Act. A three-judge panel rebuffed United States government arguments that the law was rarely used and had never led to such penalties. The United States has until Oct. 1 to respond to the ruling.
 Elizabeth Olson 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE BANK (91%); WORLD TRADE & MARKETING LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE BUN KEE LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE SYSTEMS PLC (91%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE IN LONDON LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE MOSCOW JOINT STOCK CO (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); JUDGES (53%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



690 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Bridgestone Asks Venezuelan Dealers to Return Some Tires

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. announced this evening that it had asked its dealers in Venezuela to return unsold 15- and 16-inch light truck tires made there, but the company rebuffed the Ford Motor Company's request for a recall of identical tires already in use in Venezuela, Colombia and Ecuador.
In May, Ford recalled its Ford Explorer and F-series pickup trucks equipped with the tires in all three countries, and the automaker said today that it had urged Bridgestone to recall other manufacturers' sport utility vehicles that use the same tires. Ford also scheduled a news conference on Tuesday in Caracas, Venezuela, to explain why the automaker thought that tire-related crashes of Ford Explorer sport utility vehicles in Venezuela had solely been a result of defective tires and not because of any excessive tendency of Explorers to roll over. 
 Jon Harmon, a Ford spokesman, said that Ford had cut open Firestone tires returned during the recall in Venezuela and found that many lacked a protective layer of nylon or were unable to withstand high-speed driving.
Bridgestone said that problems with its tires were limited to a mislabeling of their sidewalls and insisted that the tires met Ford specifications. According to Ford, some of the mislabeled tires said that they had the nylon layer when they did not, while some tires were missing speed ratings entirely. None of the tires made in Venezuela were shipped to the United States, Ford and Bridgestone said.
The tire maker said that a broader recall was unnecessary and that it was a coincidence that the mislabeled 15-inch tires in Venezuela were the same size as the tires being recalled in the United States because the treads occasionally come off during high-speed driving.
Toyota, which used some of the tires on Toyota Land Cruisers sold in Venezuela, said that it had not received any reports of problems and did not think a broader recall was necessary.
Jorge Dominguez, a senior investigator at the Institute for Consumer Protection and Education in Venezuela, said that the agency was convinced that Ford was partly responsible for a problem that had caused more than 60 deaths in Venezuela. "We have documentary evidence," he said. "The responsibility is shared."
Among the agency's piles of evidence, he said, were communications between the two companies as well as stickers that Ford put on its vehicles showing a lower recommended tire pressure than Firestone favored.
"If the tire manufacturer said the tire should be inflated to 32 pounds pressure, they put on their stickers that it should be 26 to 28 pounds," Mr. Dominguez said. "We even have photos of the crashed vehicles showing these stickers in place."
Ford and Firestone have only recently differed in public in the United States over the recommended tire pressure. Ford has long favored 26 pounds a square inch. Firestone, after 10 years of acquiescing to this number, abruptly announced at the beginning of its recall in the United States on Aug. 9 that the pressure should be 30 pounds a square inch.
Tires inflated to a fairly low pressure can overheat and come apart at high speeds. Virtually all of the deaths in the United States have occurred when sport utility vehicles, mostly Explorers, have rolled over when their tires failed.
Tire makers tend to prefer higher pressures because it reduces the risk of failure for the tires, which are covered by the tire makers' warranties. But higher-pressure tires increase the risk that sport utility vehicles will roll over during other driving situations without tire failure.
A Ford memorandum distributed by plaintiffs' lawyers in the United States showed that Ford rejected higher-pressure tires on a prototype of the Explorer because they tended to cause rollovers. Ford ended up choosing a different, lower-pressure tire and a different suspension.
Ford says that rollovers are the main cause of crash deaths for occupants of all brands of midsize sport utility vehicles. Explorer occupants have a lower death rate in rollovers and over all than do occupants of other midsize sport utility models, according to Ford safety officials.
In TV commercials that began showing tonight, Jacques Nasser, Ford's chief executive, emphasized that Ford had one of the best safety records, according to government data for the last 10 years.
George Pipas, a Ford market analyst, said today that Ford's sales in the United States in August would be roughly equal to last year's levels and only slightly below the company's early projections, a shortfall that he said might reflect response to the tire recall but also a somewhat slower economy and a highly competetive market.
Mr. Harmon said that Ford had not found protective nylon layers in 71 percent of the 15-inch tires from Venezuela that it cut open, nor in 55 percent of the 16-inch tires. Automakers commonly specify that tire makers include nylon for vehicles to be sold in South America because of the poor roads and because drivers frequently go extremely fast in the absence of enforced speed limits, Mr. Harmon said. The tires also failed before reaching 112 miles an hour on a dynanometer, a speed they were supposed to be able to withstand, particularly because the Explorer's engine has a computer that limits speed to 99 miles an hour, he added.
Ford has been criticized by plaintiffs' lawyers for not having Firestone include the nylon layers on Explorer tires for the United States market. Because of the good roads in the United States, manufacturers rarely use the layers except for very high-speed models like the Chevrolet Corvette sports car.
Bridgestone hinted in a letter today to the Venezuelan consumer agency that Ford might not have asked for nylon layers until recently. The letter said that Ford had specified in 1999 that the nylon be included and that nylon had been included since then. The tires in question have been produced since 1996, and the Bridgestone letter did not say whether the earlier tires had the nylon, nor were officials willing to elaborate.
Mr. Harmon said that Ford had always asked for the nylon. "Firestone specified a nylon ply to meet Ford's performance specifications from the beginning of Ford's Explorer sales in Venezuela," he said.
The Firestone tires in Venezuela, as in the United States, bear no external signs that the entire tread may come off an inner layer of rubber. Yet Ford engineers who cut apart the tires from Venezuela found that they were 100 to 1,000 times as likely to show early signs of tread separation as even the recalled Firestone tires in the United States, said a person who had seen the results.
Four investigators for the House Commerce Committee visited Bridgestone's United States headquarters in Nashville today seeking evidence on what the company knew about its American tires and when.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS326212 TIRE RETREADING (95%); SIC7534 TIRE RETREADING & REPAIR SHOPS (95%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (96%); BRIDGESTONE AMERICAS HOLDING INC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA; COLOMBIA; ECUADOR; VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; AUTOMOBILES; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); TIRES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TIRE MFG (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (68%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH DAVID FORD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



691 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Arts Center, Aided by Albany, Is to Rise on Woodstock Festival Site

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday that the state would help finance plans for a new performing arts and music center on the site of the original Woodstock festival in Bethel, N.Y.
Mr. Pataki was to appear today with the developer, Alan Gerry, at the festival site to unveil a proposal for the $40 million center, to which the state would contribute $15 million. It would be the first permanent structure built on the gently sloping hillside that once served as Max Yasgur's alfalfa field and, more famously, as the amphitheater for the August 1969 festival, a defining moment for many Americans. 
 Mr. Gerry, 71, who built his television antenna business into one of the largest cable television operations in the country, bought the original concert site's 37 acres on the Yasgur farm in 1997, and has since spoken of creating a tourist attraction and shrine to the Sixties counterculture there.
He said the arts center would stage a variety of theater, dance and music performances, from classical to rock, in a 4,000-seat indoor theater that could be partly opened to accommodate an additional 15,000 spectators sitting on the back lawn. He said that ground would be broken next spring and that the center would open in the summer of 2003.
"We feel it's one of the few things that Sullivan County has to offer that has brand recognition and is known worldwide," said Mr. Gerry, a lifelong resident of the county who has created a multimillion-dollar foundation to promote economic and cultural development there. "It's a natural franchise and no one can take it away from us."
The new arts center, which has not yet been named, is intended to attract thousands of tourists and help revive the Catskills, a struggling area whose fortunes have declined along with its grand resort hotels. In recent years, county officials and residents have tried to draw weekend visitors and other tourists by supporting proposals for at least two Indian-run casinos and building a $4 million corporate office park for high-tech and start-up companies.
In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Pataki said he hoped the Woodstock center would evolve into a cultural institution like the Saratoga Performing Arts Center or Tanglewood in the Berkshire Mountains of Massachusetts. The $15 million in state money, which will come from discretionary funds controlled by Mr. Pataki and the Legislature, will be used for the construction of the theater and for road and land improvements. The state will not have any ownership of the new project, but invested the money to spur the sagging economy of the area, the governor said.
"I think it will be a great facility for the Catskills," Mr. Pataki said. "They have always been one of the tourism centers for New York and they have lost that over the years."
Mr. Pataki said that as a 23-year-old law student, he had to stay home to tend his parents' farm while his friends went to the original Woodstock festival. Since then, he said, he has wanted to attend a concert there.
"This kind of makes up for that," he said. "I wasn't at Woodstock but I loved the music and it's going to be great to go up there. I love the Stones, but the fact is, the Band is my all-time favorite."
The Band, which gained fame as a backup band for Bob Dylan, was one of the many groups that played at the Woodstock festival. Levon Helm, the drummer and singer for the Band, who also lives nearby, will join Mr. Pataki at the site today for the announcement of the center.
Mr. Gerry bought the 37 acres for roughly $1 million in 1997, and later acquired more than 1,300 surrounding acres for an undisclosed price. Mr. Gerry, who did not attend the original Woodstock festival, said the idea of preserving the site came from his daughter, Robyn, who makes a pilgrimage there every summer.
Mr. Gerry staged two festivals at the site in 1998 and 1999 by building a temporary metal stage and importing lights and sewage lines. More than 60,000 people went to the first concert, which included performers like Joni Mitchell and Pete Townshend, and 35,000 more attended the following year to see Britney Spears and other stars. They paid $19 to $65 for tickets, but Mr. Gerry said the concerts lost money because of the expense involved for setup.
Many Sullivan county officials and residents praised the planned Woodstock center yesterday. Harvey Smith, the acting county manager, said it would bring a needed influx of customers for nearby hotels, restaurants, and stores, and also contribute to an active arts community that already stages classical music concerts, operas and plays for the county's 70,000 residents as well as summer visitors.
In addition, Mr. Smith said, the county is used to coping with large crowds because of its past as a resort area. "As someone said to me, "Happiness is a traffic jam," Mr. Smith said. "I think there's enough infrastructure here for what's planned and I'm sure there will be enhancements. We are absolutely looking forward to this kind of economic activity. It's clean, and very positive."
But beyond the hoped-for economic benefits, the Woodstock center seeks to transform what was once a makeshift concert ground into a place where people can bring their families, relive their memories, or simply find out what the fuss was all about. Even today, many people still walk through the meadows to a monument that commemorates the 1969 Woodstock festival.
"They come from all over the world," Mr. Gerry said. "This site is on so many people's calendars that it's become a historic site."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Architect's drawing of a 4,000-seat theater that could open to seat 15,000 more on the lawn, on the Woodstock festival site. (Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 37 No Official Title Given (57%); 106 S. 70 PREVENTION AND DETERRENCE OF INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT ACT OF 1999 (PREDICT) (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; BETHEL (NY); CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; MUSIC; WOODSTOCK MUSIC FESTIVALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TOURISM (88%); GOVERNORS (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); STARTUPS (72%); COUNTIES (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); RESORTS (70%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BRANDING (50%); 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GERRY, ALAN ALAN GERRY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



692 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, Visiting Tanzania, Calls for Peace in Burundi

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: ARUSHA, Tanzania, Aug. 28

 BODY:
President Clinton had hoped to witness the signing of a major peace deal and cease-fire among the warring factions in Burundi, but negotiations to end the country's seven-year civil war bogged down today when some Tutsi minority parties refused to sign an accord with the Hutu majority.
Former South African President Nelson Mandela, who is brokering the peace talks, delivered a blistering attack on the Tutsi parties for backing out of an agreement and turning their backs on "the slaughter of innocent people inside Burundi." Mr. Mandela had invited Mr. Clinton and leaders from about a dozen African nations to the resort town of Arusha for the signing by Hutu rebels and the Tutsi-dominated government. 
 But when it became clear that a major agreement would not be reached by today's deadline, Mr. Clinton instead used the occasion to plead for peace among the Tutsi and Hutu.
"If you don't do it, what is the price?" the president asked. "If you don't do it, what is the chance that the progress you have made will unravel? If you come back in 5 to 10 years, will the issues change? The gulf between you will not narrow, but the gulf between Burundi and the rest of the world will grow greater if you let this moment slip away."
Mr. Clinton winds up a four-day trip to Africa early Tuesday morning after a meeting in Cairo with the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. Mr. Clinton, eager for lasting foreign policy achievements in the final five months of his presidency, is struggling to build support among Arabs for a breakthrough deal between the Israelis and Palestinians.
The peace accord for Burundi that Mr. Mandela has been promoting during the last two years calls for an eventual return of power to the Hutu majority -- who make up nearly 85 percent of the population -- but with guaranteed protections for the Tutsi. Today's agreement, signed by only some of the parties, fell considerably short of even an end to hostilities.
Mr. Mandela criticized the Burundi president, Pierre Buyoya, in particular, for denying that he is holding political prisoners, who Mr. Mandela said are being "treated worse than animals" in Burundi jails.
Complicating the talks is the sheer number of parties involved -- 19 in all. They include 10 Tutsi political parties, 7 Hutu parties, the Tutsi-dominated army and the Burundi government. Two significant Hutu rebel groups are boycotting the talks.
"No one can force peace," Mr. Clinton told the Burundians."You must choose it."
The civil war in Burundi, which has claimed 200,000 lives and forced more than a million people from their homes, dates to 1993, when Tutsi paratroopers assassinated the first president from the Hutu majority, Melchior Ndadaye. Ethnic violence between the Tutsi and Hutu has flared in Burundi since it won independence from Belgium in 1962.
On the first trip by a United States president to Tanzania, Mr. Clinton told a welcoming party at the airport that "we still share your sorrow" over the 1998 terrorist bombing of the American Embassy in Dar es Salaam.
"I believe the terrorists went after Tanzania, Kenya and the United States precisely because we are dedicated to tolerance, understanding and cooperation across frontiers and lines of division," he said. "They took a lot of our loved ones, but they failed utterly to deter us from advancing our common principles."
Tens of thousands of people gathered along the highway waving green tree branches and flags at Mr. Clinton's passing motorcade.
Mr. Clinton signed an agreement with President Benjamin W. Mkapa of Tanzania that will give airlines in each country access to airports in the other, an "open skies agreement" that officials hope will increase passenger travel and commerce between the two nations.
In brief remarks, Mr. Clinton said that Tanzania should be thankful it has avoided many of the crises that have focused the world's attention on other parts of Africa.
"Because you have avoided headlines about repression, famine and war, and instead focused on the steady progress of democracy and development, being generous to your neighbors, and being a cause of peace and cooperation across the region, too many people in our country do not know enough about your country," Mr. Clinton said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Mandela, South Africa's former president, met with President Clinton in Arusha, Tanzania, yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BURUNDI (95%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURUNDI; TANZANIA; BURUNDI (95%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (54%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TANZANIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PEACE PROCESS (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ASSASSINATION (79%); POLITICS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); BOYCOTTS (65%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MANDELA, NELSON R; MKAPA, BENJAMIN W (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HOSNI MUBARAK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



693 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Finger Lakes Winery Gets Federal Grant

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
An organic winery on the east shore of Seneca Lake in upstate New York will look for nonchemical ways to control one of the most damaging pests in Finger Lakes vineyards.
Under a research grant from the United States Department of Agriculture, the Silver Thread Winery in Lodi, N.Y., will work against the grape leafhopper, which feeds on grape leaves and interferes with ripening and photosynthesis. 
 The owner of Silver Thread, Richard Figiel, said leafhoppers are typically controlled by chemical sprays. However, over time, the leafhopper can develop a resistance and actually increase in population. The chemical sprays also can kill off good bugs that could prey on the leafhoppers.
The project at Silver Thread will use a battery of organic techniques, including botanical sprays, agricultural soaps and releasing lacewings, beneficial insects that make meals of leafhoppers. By carefully timing use of these techniques to the leafhoppers' life cycle, Mr. Figiel hopes the pests can be controlled effectively and economically without using chemical sprays.
Silver Thread received one of 63 grants given throughout the Northeast. The department's Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education program was established in the 1980's to encourage farmers to experiment with agricultural practices that minimize the impact on the ecosystem.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; SILVER THREAD WINERY SILVER THREAD WINERY (91%); FINGER LAKES WINERY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; SILVER THREAD WINERY US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FINGER LAKES (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WINES; RESEARCH; GRAPE LEAFHOPPER (INSECT); INSECTS GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); WINERIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAKES (90%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); CROP RESEARCH (77%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (77%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: RICHARD FIGIEL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



694 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Major Market Gauges Gain, Flirting With Record Highs

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Major stock market gauges crept close to record levels yesterday.
Led by American Express and General Motors, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.21 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,252.84. The gain put the blue-chip index less than 30 points from its April 11 high of 11,287.08. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also neared record levels, climbing 7.64 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,514.09. Gains in EMC, General Electric and Oracle pulled the index higher. Its peak of 1,527.46 was set on March 24.
The Nasdaq composite index rose for the 10th time in the last 12 sessions, gaining 27.91 points, or 0.7 percent, to 4,070.59. The advance put the Nasdaq ahead for the year.
So far this year, the Nasdaq is up 0.03 percent; the S.& P. 500 is up 3.1 percent; and the Dow is down 2.1 percent.
With many traders on vacation, volume was light. On the New York Stock Exchange, some 733.6 million shares changed hands.
"You love to see an up market, but with the volume as poor as it is, it is difficult to tell what it means," said Ned Collins, head trader at Daiwa Securities America.
With activity at a fairly low ebb, Mr. Collins and other traders said there were no real problems with the introduction of decimalization on 13 listed stocks. But they said a bigger challenge could well come at the end of next month, when a much larger group of stocks is scheduled to be quoted in pennies instead of fractions.
"It's hard to draw any earth-shattering conclusions," said Michael Clark, head of global stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "There is a reason they decided to introduce this in late summer, when the volumes are low."
Among Dow stocks, American Express rose $3.38, to $59.94 a share. I.B.M. gained $1.63, to $130.63, after an analyst from Credit Suisse First Boston said the stock could reach $150 a share over the next 12 months. G.M. gained $3.06, to $74.50.
Intel, Microsoft and Cisco Systems, were the most actively traded issues yesterday.
Intel gained 94 cents, to $73.88; Microsoft rose 69 cents, to $71.31; and Cisco Systems closed at $66.06, up 56 cents.
Yahoo was a big decliner among technology stocks.
The stock plunged $12.19, to $122.06, after an analyst at Lehman Brothers said problems for Yahoo, the largest Internet search company, continued to worsen because of sluggish advertising revenue growth.
But it was a very good day for brokerage firms and financial services stocks.
Merrill Lynch rose $3.09, to $140.47; Lehman Brothers jumped $3.44, to $137.25; Goldman Sachs closed at $122, up $2.63; and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette gained $4.69, to $65.81.
"Leadership has clearly shifted to sectors that are interest rate sensitive," said Jim Paulson, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. "I think we are going to new highs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the daily performance of the stock market misstated the record high for the Dow Jones industrial average. It was 11,722.98 points in January, not 11,287.08 in April.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES COMPOSITE AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N NED COLLINS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000



695 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2243 words

HEADLINE: An Escape to Eden On Vancouver Island

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: SOOKE, British Columbia

 BODY:
SINCLAIR AND FREDERIQUE PHILIP make an unlikely pair. She comes from Cannes, on the lush Cote d'Azur; he grew up on the spare Canadian plains. He likes fish; she likes meat. He is reserved, ironic and intellectual, an international economist by trade; she has an earth-motherly warmth.
Yet, together they took a white clapboard house, built in 1928 on a lonely promontory on timber-clad Vancouver Island, facing the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the Olympic Mountains of Washington State beyond it, and in 21 years turned the place into an enticing and idiosyncratic retreat for epicures. 
 Today, Sooke Harbour House is one of Canada's half-dozen best restaurants, and it has a kitchen garden unlike any other in North America -- more than two acres of herbs, vegetables and edible flowers, many of them rarities, gradually devouring the lawns around the house, tumbling down to the sea, scaling hillsides in every direction, a living tapestry of leaf, shrub and color.
Tuberous begonias with blossoms the size of dinner plates fill baskets and window boxes, and a few petals are plucked each day to flavor the mignonette sauce served with freshly opened local oysters. A climbing fig twines around a dining alcove and provides fruit in the fall. Aromatic lemon verbena and jaunty nasturtiums grow in profusion close to the house, adding a sweet scent and flashes of bright color to the many pleasures of Sooke. Herbal teas are made from verbena, and nasturtium blossoms enliven salads.
Bergamot and borage flowers, two Philip favorites, will not soon supplant salt and pepper, but they and other products of the garden contribute not only subtle flavors but also an element of surprise to the menu, helping to accomplish the mission of serving only seasonal, organic food produced or harvested in British Columbia. People come here, Mr. Philip told me, "for the Canadian experience," whether they come from Canada, the American Northwest or farther afield.
So you will find no caviar and no mangoes at Sooke Harbour House, because none are produced in the province. But I'll wager you won't miss them -- not with line-caught sockeye salmon, trap-caught black cod and Dungeness crab fished out of the waters of Sooke Inlet; not with roast leg of suckling kid raised by a local farmer and lobster mushrooms and chanterelles foraged in the rain forest; not with West Coast mussels, plus marine exotica like gooseneck barnacles and limpets, all of them gathered by hand from rock-strewn beaches nearby.
"No matter where I go," said Edward Tuson, the 36-year-old head chef, "Nepal and India, Malaysia, Vancouver, I end up coming back here. I have total freedom, as long as I play by Sinclair's rules and keep it local. I invent something, fuss with it, change the menu every day. There's this fabulous garden, there's a network of farmers, and I have a fisherman who wakes me at 8, 8:30, every morning, calling to tell me what's best in the day's catch."
Close to 100 people eat here each night, in two big, alabaster-white dining rooms, one with a huge fireplace, both with big windows framing the vista of sea and sky. The rooms are decorated with the work of local artists, commissioned by Mrs. Philip (and with whimsical gifts from grateful diners: people send miniature hats -- straw for summer, wool for winter -- for the duck decoys on the mantlepiece).
Candles burn in the chandeliers. The window in one door is shaped like a crab. Like the whole place, the dining rooms are casual, unpretentious, very much in harmony with the rugged surroundings, but totally professional.
Self-taught the key players may be, but this is no amateur hour.
MR. AND MRS. PHILIP met in 1967 at a party in Nice given by a friend of hers. He had just arrived from Canada, to work on his French before heading to Africa. He never got there. They lived in Aix-en-Provence for a while, then at Grenoble, where he studied economics, and then in Toronto. On a business trip, he came upon Sooke Harbour House and decided to buy it.
For 16 years, the Philips lived in the basement with their children and worked upstairs. Making the place go took a kind of manic concentration and energy, and three years ago, just when they had almost paid off the mortgage, but not quite, they took out a new, bigger one to expand the inn to 28 bedrooms. He is now 53, she 52, and the staff, all recruited locally, has grown from three to 80.
"Sinclair," Mrs. Philip said, "does his research on anything the same way as he did the research for his Ph.D. at Grenoble, so when he decided to start the garden, he read everything in print on herbs and edible flowers."
Many of the choicest things Mr. Philip grows were brought here, in the form of seed or seedlings from commercial nurseries. That is the case with the tiny, seductively perfumed woodland strawberries the French call fraises des bois, as well as the Mabel Grey geraniums from South Africa, whose leaves have a lemon-lime scent -- a little like Sprite.
But he has learned a lot from the Northwest Indian tribes that have lived on Vancouver Island since time immemorial and from people who study them, like Nancy Turner, an ethnobotanist at the University of British Columbia. They taught him about cooking with the tender young needles of the fir tree and about many of the sea creatures that live on the beaches and in the tidal pools. One of the inn's most talented foragers is Carol Planes, an Indian, who regularly clambers down slippery rocks to gather shellfish.
"These people have been eating this stuff forever," Mr. Philip said. "You listen to them, and you learn."
Early clients blanched at things they were offered to eat. Mr. Philip remembers people asking, "How can you eat those bitter greens?" Mrs. Philip was often asked to taste a dish first, in a customer's presence, to demonstrate that it was actually edible.
You still see perplexed looks on people's faces when they sit down to their first meal and read a menu entry like this one: "Gooseneck barnacle terrine with grand fir and calendula petal emulsion, bull kelp pickle and sea cucumber." But they soon learn that weird as it may sound, it tastes like the very essence of the sea. It tastes like Japan. It tastes very good.
With it and the other inventive dishes on the menu come wines from a 91-page list -- wines from France and Australia and Italy, Germany and California and Oregon, including runs of older vintages of Stag's Leap Cask 23 and Silver Oak cabernet sauvignons; Grange shiraz from South Australia and choice, scarce Leonettis from Washington. On top of that, there are intriguing wines from Vancouver Island itself, as well as the Okanagan Valley, British Columbia's premier viticultural area.
But the magic of Sooke Harbour House lies in more than its table and its cellar. The setting is remarkable, with fog and mist swirling in from the sea, sometimes lying like a duvet on the harbor. Clearing and clouding over several times a day, the sky first reveals and then obscures the mountains, like some cosmic theatrical curtain rising and falling. And all the while, sea lions and orca whales frolic offshore while ospreys and loons circle overhead.
The rooms, each different, each decorated with Indian and other local art, are the spacious balcony seats for this spectacle. Most have fireplaces and refrigerators; each gets its ration of two big sugar cookies every day.
It is the kind of place that defies a person to get or stay uptight. I went planning to catch up on some reading and writing, but I failed.
One of the Philip daughters, Nishka, 19, gave me a running commentary one morning when I tagged along behind her as she gathered flower petals.
"This," she said, pointing to some chivelike stems topped with purple flowers, "is called 'society' garlic, because it's not supposed to get on your breath or anything. But I have my doubts, eh? These orange flowers you see everywhere are pot marigolds, or calendulas. They bloom all year, throughout the calendar, which is where they get their name. The breakfast people put them in cheese biscuits, to make the biscuits taste twice as cheesy. Long ago, they were used to color Cheddar."
Who would guess where flavors lurk in the garden? Day lily flowers go into sorbet, carnation petals are added to salads, and sweet woodruff, an herb with a perky white flower, long used by Central Europeans in wine punches, is used at Sooke in ice cream.
No culinary use has been found yet for the passionflower vine that grows along the eaves on one side of the house. It is a pet of Nishka's, not only because of its pretty, complex purple-blue flowers, but also because it spreads so exuberantly. "You can hear it growing," she assured me with a grin.
A little farther along, Nishka stopped at two groups of plants, side by side, which looked identical to me. To her, too, as it turned out. A book I found later in the house identified one as Korean mint (Agastache rugosa), which smells like root beer, and the other, a cousin, as anise hyssop (Agastache foeniculum), which has a slight licorice flavor. That night, my wife, Betsey, and I had a sauce subtly flavored with anise hyssop, among other things, on a piece of black cod. Another night, a small packet of black cod arrived in a crab and corn broth, flavored with shingeku, or chrysanthemum leaves.
In both dishes, it was the fresh, sweet taste and the firm, slightly springy texture of the fish that hit you at first bite. Only slowly did the herbal flavors assert themselves, adding an unanticipated contrast.
A gray, gawky cardoon plant grew into a tree near a cluster of borage plants -- "borage for the bees," Nishka said, "they love it." So do Englishmen, I told her; they put whole stalks of the stuff into the Pimms' Cup they like to drink at Wimbledon or after a cricket match. Across the way, she pointed to a hedge of hops, grown not for beer but for the delicate young spring shoots, which the Belgians (and also the Philips) cook like asparagus.
In a shady spot at the foot of the hedge some fernlike sweet cicely was doing nicely. Some of it was destined for a mild sabayon, also flavored with ginger and white peaches, which Mr. Tuson served us on superbly briny sea urchin roe he had taken from the shell a mere five minutes before we ate it.
Byron Cook, head gardener for 13 years, grows all sorts of salad crops, including shiso, the hauntingly flavored Japanese leaf, and arugula and red romaine and Red Sails lettuce. Most of them are planted in raised beds, so the soil can more easily be renewed with compost, as successive crops are harvested.
Mr. Cook's is more or less a year-round operation. It seldom snows at Sooke, which lies in hardiness Zone 8, the same as Charleston, S.C., a beneficiary of benign Pacific breezes and currents. A few of the tenderer plants, like verbena, are lifted from the soil and kept inside for the brief winter, and cuttings are taken of others to start fresh plants when spring arrives.
But all of the lettuces, the pansies, the English daisies and the hardier herbs (like an 11-foot rosemary bush outside one of the guest rooms) keep right on chugging, year-round.
Not everything flourishes at Sooke. It took Mr. Cook a half-dozen tries to establish Mexican marigolds, which have a flavor similar to tarragon, and even in this cosseted corner of the Pacific, dill gets scraggly and sun-hungry basil doesn't grow very tall. Reassuring, I guess, for us brown-thumbs.
 
SWEET LAVENDER, MAPLE SYRUP AND CARROT ICE MILK
Adapted from Sooke Harbour House
Time: 1 hour 40 minutes, plus freezing time
 
For the carrot puree:
2 pounds organic carrots, trimmed and peeled
1 tablespoon fresh organic rosemary or 2 tablespoons dried
1 cup unfiltered organic apple juice
2 tablespoons brown sugar
 
For the ice milk:
2 cups 2 percent milk
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh or dried organic lavender flowers or a 2-inch cinnamon stick
8 large egg yolks
 1/2 cup maple syrup
 1/4 cup granulated sugar
 1/4 cup brown sugar
1 ounce brandy, Cognac, rye or rum.
1. To prepare carrot puree, combine carrots, rosemary, apple juice and brown sugar in a medium nonreactive saucepan. Place over high heat until simmering, then cover, and reduce heat to medium-low. Cook until carrots are soft, 35 to 40 minutes. Remove from heat, and set aside to cool.
2. In a food processor, puree the carrots with any remaining juice. Process until the puree is very smooth, about 4 minutes.
3. To prepare ice milk, combine carrot puree, milk and lavender in a medium saucepan. Place mixture over medium heat until it just reaches a simmer. Remove from heat, and keep warm.
4. In a medium nonreactive bowl, combine egg yolks, maple syrup, granulated sugar and brown sugar. Heat mixture over a double boiler, whisking until it is thick and light in color, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat, and place a strainer over mixture. Pour in carrot puree, stirring and pressing with a rubber spatula until puree passes through into egg mixture.
5. Return double boiler to heat. Whisk until mixture is steaming and thick enough to coat the back of a spoon, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat, and whisk occasionally as it cools. (If mixture begins to curdle, pour into a blender and process until smooth.)
6. When mixture has cooled, stir in brandy. Freeze in an ice-cream maker, according to manufacturer's instructions.
Yield: 1 1/2 quarts (about 6 servings).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SALAD BOUND -- Nishka Philip in the garden at Sooke Harbour House. (Bayne Stanley for The New York Times)(pg. F1); FOR EPICURES -- Edward Tuson, above, the chef at Sooke Harbour House. Right, his seafood and tomato plate. (Photographs by Bayne Stanley for The New York Times)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (73%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOOKE HARBOUR HOUSE (CANADIAN RESTAURANT) COTE D'AZUR HOLDING (58%); SOOKE HARBOUR HOUSE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOOKE HARBOUR HOUSE (CANADIAN RESTAURANT) SOOKE HARBOUR HOUSE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (73%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; RECIPES RESTAURANTS (90%); FISHES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); BEACHES (75%); GARDENING (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); MOUNTAINS (70%); RAIN FORESTS (64%); HERB FARMING (54%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR FREDERIQUE PHILIP (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



696 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Women Welcomed Back to Career Path

BYLINE: By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
When Gwen Hahn, a stay-at-home mother, decided this summer that it was time to re-enter the work force, she braced herself for rejection.
"I worried that employers might not take me seriously," said Ms. Hahn, who had quit her job as a catering manager for a Phoenix hotel six years ago to spend more time with her three children. 
 Instead, Ms. Hahn received a job offer even before she had a chance to send out her resume. Her boss-to-be, Nancy Nachman, president of a firm in Scottsdale, Ariz., that plans meetings for companies, was a guest at a party she held and was immediately taken with her people skills.
"As soon as I saw Gwen, I knew that she was a natural for the job," Ms. Nachman said. Not long after, she offered Ms. Hahn a position as a planner with the company, the Meetings Concierge, starting in early September, and Ms. Hahn accepted.
Not so long ago, housewives with resume gaps spanning several years faced tough slogging in the job market. No more. In today's full-employment economy, employers are actively wooing women who held jobs once upon a time and finding in them a rich new source of talent.
"There's no question that employers are taking a second look at women who are re-entering the work force." said Marcia Brumit Kropf, vice president for research and information services for Catalyst, a New York research group that studies women's issues. "Today's job market is so tight that employers are opening their mind to nontraditional candidates. If a woman has talent and a good track record, a gap in her resume is no longer as relevant."
And it does not seem to matter if the gap is more a chasm. Katherine Goldman quit her job as creative director for an advertising agency in Princeton, N.J., after her first child was born more than 14 years ago.
"I always kept my eyes and ears open," said Ms. Goldman, who spent the next 11 years doing freelance work for ad agencies while caring for her two children, who are now teenagers. When Ms. Goldman decided last year to go back to work full time, she called a contact at Jack Morton Worldwide, a branding communications firm.
"As a returning mother, I thought I might have to explain myself," she said. "Instead, after I told him that I'd like to work for him, he said, 'Wow, that's great, you're hired.' "
Cynthia Kuker, Ms. Goldman's boss, says the hot economy has forced her company's executives to soften their old hiring requirements. "We're a niche market without a large employee pool, so we're bringing in applicants who on paper might not look like the ideal candidate, but who might have just the skills we're looking for," she said.
And, as was the case with Ms. Hahn, those skills went beyond workplace credentials and centered on personality. The company was attracted by her maturity and confidence as well as her broad background in writing and advertising, Ms. Kuker said. "She was bringing something totally different to the table that somebody who had just gotten out of school, or maybe had one job, wouldn't have," she said.
So eager are some employers to tap into the stay-at-home-mom pool that many are courting them with flexible-work arrangements, day care and other perks.
"For the first time, I'm seeing a few law firms offer four-day workweeks to working mothers," said Jillian Winoker, director of associate placements for Corrao Miller Rush & Wiesenthal, a New York employment firm. "You would never have seen that in the legal profession five years ago."
It is not just law firms. In 1998, Ernst & Young, the big accounting firm, created a host of flexible work arrangements, from compressed work schedules and telecommuting to job sharing. "Women returning to the work force are typically highly skilled, and we have to be creative in attracting them," said Deborah Holmes, national director of the firm's office of retention.
One woman who was attracted was Sharon Kurtz, now a manager of internal audit services for the firm. Ms. Kurtz had previously worked for Ernst & Young until her second child was born in 1995.
She decided to apply for a second job there in March 1999, after taking a break to spend time with her children.
"When I left, the climate for working mothers was totally different," said Ms. Kurtz, who now works a three-day week. "I would leave after a nine-hour day, and a co-worker would say, 'Oh, half-day today?' "
Now, Ms. Kurtz said, so many employees have flexible arrangements that nobody questions that she works three days a week.
Another reason women are finding it easier to re-enter the work force is that they are becoming more adept at keeping their foot in the door while they are gone. Although they are often busy raising children, some women make a point of updating their skills, taking classes and networking with peers.
Consider Cindy Bateman, a mother of two from Seattle. Soon after Ms. Bateman left her position as a vice president at the Pacific National Bank in Newport Beach, Calif., in December 1998, to spend more time with her children, she enrolled in an M.B.A. program at the University of Washington. She also accepted a position as a public affairs officer for an association for women who work in the financial industry. She plans to resume working in another year, when her younger child starts school and she has earned her master's degree.
Though by then she will have been out of the work force for about three years, she is confident she will find work as a senior bank manager. "I'm already getting calls from prospective employers," Ms. Bateman said. "I've gotten so much positive feedback that I hadn't really considered that there was any difference between me and a job candidate who hadn't taken time off."
The journey back to the office is not all smooth sailing, of course. Ms. Hahn, for example, worries about whether her computer skills are up to speed. "It's kind of intimidating," she said. "In my old job, I had a support staff to do this kind of stuff."
Then there is the inevitable culture shock. Ms. Goldman, who is in her early 40's, said reporting to people who are younger than she is could be tough.
But her biggest struggle, she said, has been making her family accustomed to the fact that she is working again and to share household chores like making dinner and doing the laundry. "We're having to renegotiate roles," she said. 'My working is something we're all still getting used to."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gwen Hahn was hired soon after deciding to re-enter the work force. She quit work six years ago to care for her daughter, Taylor, and sons Alex, standing, and Rick. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: JACK MORTON WORLDWIDE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WOMEN EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CATERING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA GWEN HAHN (90%); SHARON KURTZ (66%); KATHERINE GOLDMAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



697 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE POUND WEAKENS. The dollar reached a six-year high against the British pound on speculation that interest rates in Britain may be near a peak. In New York, the pound settled at $1.4560, down from $1.4704 on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the British pound to the dollar, since March 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



698 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Begins to Take Role on the World Stage

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BRASILIA

 BODY:
When Henry A. Kissinger visited here as secretary of state in the mid-1970's, his Brazilian counterpart, Antonio Azeredo da Silveira, made a point of escorting him on a tour of Itamaraty Palace, the ultramodern glass and marble headquarters of the Brazilian Foreign Ministry.
Afterward, Mr. Silveira asked his American guest for his impressions. 
 Grinning with amusement, Mr. Silveira later recalled in an interview Mr. Kissinger's reply: "It's a magnificent building, Antonio. Now all you need is a foreign policy to go with it."
Nearly a quarter of a century later, the joke may finally be on the United States. Today an increasingly confident and assertive Brazil is emerging as both an American partner and rival in Latin America, steering its own course on political and economic matters and, in the words of Anthony S. Harrington, the United States ambassador here, "stepping out onto the world stage in a way that it never has before."
At the World Trade Organization talks in Seattle last fall, for instance, it was Brazil that led the bloc of developing nations in criticizing Washington's position. And on Aug. 31 and Sept. 1, Brazil is sponsoring a first meeting of South American presidents here that is being seen as both a coming-out party and an effort to forge a unified regional front in negotiations with the United States about a hemispheric free-trade zone.
"It is clearly the judgment that the continent is now ready for Brazil to assume a broader, more dynamic leadership role in regional affairs," Riordan Roett, director of the Western Hemisphere Program at Johns Hopkins University, said in referring to Brazilian leaders in an essay published this month by the Web site InfoBrazil.com. "And it is now understood in South America that the regional card to play is one that is led from Brasilia."
As the largest country in Latin America but separated from its Spanish-speaking neighbors by its Portuguese language, Brazil has traditionally conducted a foreign policy that is pragmatic but that only recently began to emphasize relations within the region. By habit, said Helio Jaguaribe of the Institute for Political and Social Studies in Rio de Janeiro, "Brazil seeks cooperation," recognizing that "whether or not you like the United States, you have to live with it."
For that reason the United States has welcomed the summit meeting, even though one of its goals is to blunt Washington's strategy in trade talks of favoring bilateral agreements in which it has the upper hand.
"A South America assembled into a single bloc would add up to more than the sum of its parts and therefore be in a position to insist on more balanced negotiations with the North American trading bloc," said Gilberto Dupas of the Institute of Advanced Studies at the University of Sao Paulo.
If regional integration is to take place, the State Department would clearly prefer to see Brazil lead it rather than Venezuela's firebrand president, Hugo Chavez, whose calls for South American unity contain authoritarian and markedly anti-American elements. Indeed, given its sheer size and the relative maturity and health of its democracy compared with some of its more troubled neighbors, Brazil may be best positioned to lead such a effort.
"I think President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is looked upon as somewhat of an uncle by some of the other leaders in South America," Ambassador Harrington said in an interview. "His orientation and goal is to steer onto the path of democracy a few countries that may be a little more challenged there."
The United States has recognized the benefits of Brazil's playing such a role since the early 1980's, when Brazilian diplomacy guided a leftist government in Suriname away from a flirtation with Cuba. More recently, Brazil helped negotiate the end to a potentially explosive border dispute between Ecuador and Peru, and has used its influence to head off potential military coups in Paraguay.
President Clinton praised Brazil and Argentina during a visit to nuclear-armed India and Pakistan this spring as examples of nations that have successfully negotiated an end to dangerous nuclear programs and even become allies. Bitter military rivals for most of their history, Brazil and Argentina have in the last decade become partners in the Mercosul trade bloc and are now talking about adopting a common currency.
The United States and Brazil have disagreed recently, however, over the suspect presidential election in Peru that resulted in a third term for Alberto K. Fujimori. The United States was pushing behind the scenes for sanctions, and American officials have complained privately that Brazil was undermining their efforts to nudge the Organization of American States into a tough collective stance.
"Washington should have seen that one coming," said David Fleischer, a professor of political science at the National University of Brasilia. "If you want to bring the Andean nations into Mercosul, as Brazil apparently does, you are not going to want to slap them in the face."
But it is the crisis in Colombia, with which Brazil shares a 1,000-mile border, that seems to have the most potential to become a source of disagreement with Washington. The Clinton administration's plan to supply $1.3 billion in military and economic aid to President Andres Pastrana of Colombia has been widely criticized in the Brazilian press and Congress, and official support for the American-backed effort appears lukewarm, at best.
"Brazil certainly has concerns there could be a spillover onto our side, whether of coca cultivation and trafficking or of combat between the Colombian Army and guerrillas," Brazil's foreign minister, Luiz Felipe Lampreia, said in an interview here. The American aid plan to Colombia, he added, represents "a stepping up of the level of conflict" that "could generate this effect."
At a joint news conference with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright during her South American tour this month, Mr. Lampreia's remarks were even stronger. "We do not have the same degree of commitment," he said of the plan in Colombia, with Dr. Albright by his side. "We have no intention of participating in any common or concerted international action."
Another point of potential tension is the hemispheric free-trade talks, which are supposed to reach an agreement by 2005. Brazil and the United States are the co-chairmen, but after six years of negotiations, it is clear that the two nations have very different views, with some officials in Washington describing Brazil's position as "obstructionist."
Brazil, in turn, complains of protectionist barriers and subsidies in the United States that discriminate against Brazilian products ranging from steel and textiles to sugar and orange juice.
Speaking of access to the American market, Mr. Lampreia said, "What is essential for us is a free-trade agreement completely devoid of tariff and nontariff barriers so that we can have unobstructed access."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazilian diplomats after a meeting in the Itamaraty Palace, the Foreign Ministry headquarters in Brasilia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



699 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
From Industry to Pastry: A Business Park Evolves

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
The old Atlas Terminals industrial park, on Cooper Avenue in Queens, has long had a knack for reinventing itself. But the park's latest transformation efforts are unlike anything its late founder, Henry Hemmerdinger, might have imagined.
Atlas Terminals sprouted from a warehouse that Mr. Hemmerdinger bought in 1922. The 25-acre park reached its heyday in the early 1950's, when it was home to brand names like the General Electric Company and New York Telephone. 
 The 40- and 50-year tenants are long gone at Atlas, as are the railroad cars that once carried some 60 loads a day across eight miles of track. Manufacturing firms still take up about a third of the park's one million square feet of commercial space. But for years, Atlas, in the mostly residential Glendale area, has pursued a number of market niches that have given it a diverse, if mostly local, mix of tenants.
Those tenants, housed in 42 buildings, include warehouses for college textbooks, plastic bags, carpeting and lighting, as well as companies that make art frames, telephone calling cards, and even European pastries.
Atlas has had some notable victories lately. For one, the park is 92 percent occupied, up from just 75 percent during the recession of the early 1990's. Moreover, it has been able to replace the many knitting firms that left in recent years with medical firms like Mason Medical Products, a manufacturer of mattresses, slings and medical foam cushions. At 130,000 square feet, Mason is the industrial park's largest tenant.
Over the last 18 months, Atlas has also been able to woo roughly a half-dozen small businesses that used to be in Manhattan, says George Rozansky, the park's manager.
Yet despite such successes, Atlas Terminals's survival skills are still being tested.
For example, even with relatively modest rents that start at just $5.75 a square foot per year for industrial space, the turnover rate at Atlas remains "fairly high," said H. Dale Hemmerdinger, the grandson of Atlas's founder and the president of the Manhattan-based Atco Properties and Management. He said industrial tenants in New York are continuing to leave for areas where costs are lower, like New Jersey.
Mr. Rozansky said he is negotiating with several Long Island City companies about a possible move. However, one obstacle has been the lack of a nearby subway stop at Atlas; the closest station, at Metropolitan Avenue on the M line, is less than two miles away, or about a three-minute trip by bus.
Mr. Rozansky and the executives at Atco are trying to woo textile firms that are being squeezed out of Manhattan's garment district. So far, they have attracted two small shops. They also want to begin marketing their complex as a home for Internet companies and "telecommunications hotels," which house telecommunications and data equipment.
On this front, they hope to get sizable help from a broadband fiber-optic network being installed at the park by Verizon Communications. The electronics for the network are already in place in a building next to a 50,000-gallon water tower. The tower itself has been wired for cellular service and will soon be able to handle wireless Internet service.
Retailers represent another surprising change at Atlas these days. The park now has four such tenants, three of which came aboard during the last two years. This fall, the park's two newest retailers -- a coffee bar and an 8,200-square-foot Chinese restaurant -- are expected to open for business on Cooper Avenue, not far from another Atlas tenant, a thriving pet supply store. According to Mr. Rozansky, Atlas is signing up retail tenants at about $15 a square foot; he said retail space in Glendale commonly goes for $15 to $20 a square foot.
To accommodate the Chinese restaurant, Atlas Terminals embarked on its largest renovation project in a decade. It involved overhauling a century-old, drive-in trucking building that needed a new facade, openings for storefront windows and doors, and an 18-space parking lot. The structure also needed a new concrete floor, to replace sections that were still made of dirt.
Mr. Hemmerdinger said his firm remains a long-term investor at Atlas Terminals, a commitment that requires continual modernizations. Renovations have included replacing roughly a quarter of the park's crumbling brick facade, installing two new boiler systems, and replacing roughly 150 windows a year.
A relative newcomer to the park is Werner Rees, a tenant who runs a baking goods distributorship, as well as a wholesale and retail bakery called Bavarian Alps Konditorei Pastries.
In January 1999, Mr. Rees moved his business from a 5,000-square-foot site in Richmond Hill to a 10,000-foot space at Atlas. As part of the move, he invested $400,000 in an ultramodern bakery that now provides pastries to 14 airlines.
"I looked at other properties," Mr. Rees said, "but the rent here was reasonable, and I like the service. Also, it's centrally located. I'm only 10 minutes from the airport."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Retail tenants like K-9 Caterers, a pet supply store, are part of the changing landscape at Atlas Terminals, managed by George Rozansky. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (72%); GEC (LSE) (72%); GE (SWX) (72%); GE (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ATLAS TERMINALS (NYC) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (72%); ATCO PROPERTIES & MANAGEMENT INC (52%); ATLAS TERMINALS (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLAS TERMINALS (NYC) ATLAS TERMINALS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); BAKED GOODS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); TEXTILE MFG (74%); TRAINS (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (70%); KNIT FABRIC MILLS (69%); MATTRESS MFG (69%); TEXTILES (67%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); RETAILERS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA GEORGE ROZANSKY (68%); H DALE HEMMERDINGER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



700 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Are Mixed as Fears of Rate Increases Re-emerge

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday, with banks and airlines mainly lower while selected technology issues made modest gains, as unexpectedly strong housing sales renewed fears the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates again.
The latest government data showed sales of new homes hit the highest level in seven years in July. That helped to increase shares in home builders, like Kaufman & Broad, but fostered negative attitudes toward banks and some retailers amid concern that the central bank's campaign of interest rate increases may not be over. 
 "The fundamental picture today was a ripple from the home sales numbers," said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Primark Decision Economics. He said the July home sales data looked extremely strong and "that might have started to raise suspicions that the Fed could be thinking of tightening if that kind of number is confirmed by other indicators going forward."
Higher interest rates tend to reduce growth in consumer spending and curb demand for bank loans.
Blue chips pulled back some of their earlier losses as shares of brokerage firms climbed in reaction to a surge in the stock of the Wall Street house Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, which soared $16.44, to $82.25. There were reports that Credit Suisse First Boston, the investment banking arm of Switzerland's No. 2 bank, is negotiating to buy Donaldson.
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average fell 37.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,215.10. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 4.25 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,509.84. The technology-laced Nasdaq composite index finished up 11.58 points, or 0.28 percent, to 4,082.17.
On Monday, stocks roared ahead on what analysts said was hope that interest rates had peaked after six increases since June 1999.
Among the banks and financial services companies to slide were Chase Manhattan, which lost 81 cents, to $51.88, and American Express, off $1.44, to $58.44.
Among technology heavyweights to gain were I.B.M., up $2.25, to $132.88, and Cisco Systems, which added 50 cents, to $66.56.
Among the investment banks and brokerage firms to benefit from the rumors surrounding Donaldson, Lufkin was J. P. Morgan & Company, which rose $3.88, to $149, and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. up $3.34, to $140.59. Lehman has long been considered a prime takeover candidate as it remains independent.
The Dow was also pressured by Johnson & Johnson, off $1.75, to $93, on negative news about the anticlotting drug ReoPro, which it developed with its Centocor unit.
Shares of Eli Lilly & Company, which distributes ReoPro worldwide, except in Japan, were down 50 cents, to $74.
Transportation and airline stocks fell amid pressure from high crude oil prices, which represent additional costs for these companies. The UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, slipped $1.56, to $49.94.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Drop
(By Bloomberg News)
Treasury bond prices fell as investors said government debt ha become expensive and as more than $20 billion of planned corporate bond sales from British Telecommunications and others next month sapped demand.
"Prices are high," with 10-year notes returning 7 percent and 30-year bonds gaining almost 9 percent just since early May, said Peter Cordrey, who oversees $125 billion at Prudential Asset Management in Newark.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to a price of 99 19/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.80 percent from 5.77 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 13/32, to 107 4/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.74 percent from 5.72 percent on Monday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of one-year bills:

 
(000 omitted in dollar figures
 
Price: 94.055
High Rate: 5.88%
Coupon Yield: 6.24%
Low Rate: 5.80%
Median Rate 5.85%
Total applied for: $26,458,287
Accepted: $13,032,887
Noncompetitive $469,593
 
The one-year bills mature Aug. 30, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); UAL (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (61%); LLY (SWX) (60%); LLY (NYSE) (60%); KOF (PAR) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (60%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%); ELI LILLY & CO (60%); KAUFMAN & BROAD SA (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); ANTICOAGULANTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



701 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Pace of New-Home Sales Hit a 7-Year High in July

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Americans bought new homes in July at the fastest pace in seven years while consumer confidence remained near record highs, according to reports released yesterday.
Sales of new single-family homes surged 14.7 percent in July, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 944,000, from 823,000 in June, the Commerce Department said. That was far above analysts' expectations for a rate of 833,000. 
 The consumer confidence index dipped slightly, to 141.1, in August from an upwardly revised 143.0 in July, but the level remained close to the record of 144.7, set in January and May, according to the Conference Board, a private business and economic research group.
Moreover, consumers' plans over the next six months to buy big-ticket items like homes, cars, vacations and refrigerators strengthened. This suggested no let-up ahead in robust demand, the Conference Board said.
With the consumer untrammeled by six interest rate increases since June 1999, analysts said the latest economic data suggested the Federal Reserve might need to push interest rates higher by early next year.
"Consumers are not about to close their wallets," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo & Company. "This implies that Fed chairman Alan Greenspan's job is not finished by any means."
One factor tempering the 14.7 percent jump in July home sales -- the biggest gain since a 16.4 percent surge in April 1993 -- was that June was even weaker than initially reported. June sales were revised down to a 7.1 percent drop from the previously reported 3.7 percent decline.
Averaging the two months showed the housing market has come off its peaks, analysts said. But they cautioned that a recent drop in 30-year mortgage rates below 8 percent might set off a fresh round of buying.
Skyrocketing demand pushed the supply of available single-family homes down to 3.8 months' worth at the current sales pace, down from 4.6 months' worth in June. The July figure was the lowest since December 1998.
The short supply appeared to be creating price pressures. Median prices of new single-family homes rose 3.8 percent in July, to $166,100, up from $157,900 a year ago.
Still, economists said they were not putting too much emphasis on economic reports that can be volatile. They still forecast growth slowing this summer from its heady 5.3 percent rate in the second quarter to 3.5 percent to 4 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "New-Home Sales," tracks the annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted since February 1999.
(Source: Commerce Department)
 
Graph "Prices of New Homes," tracks the median price for new homes in thousands of dollars, since February 1999.
(Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; HOUSING; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) NEW HOME SALES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); STATISTICS (77%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



702 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: Experts Doubt New York Plan To Fingerprint for Medicaid

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
When electronic fingerprinting was introduced five years ago, it caught the imagination of politicians who saw it as the ultimate high-tech weapon to fight welfare fraud.
New York was among the first states to try the new technology, and as it proclaimed success against welfare cheats, other states followed. Now New York is extending its requirement for the electronic fingerprinting of welfare recipients to people applying for Medicaid. 
 Yet there is little evidence that so-called finger imaging -- intended to deter would-be double-dippers using fake identity papers -- has had any significant impact in preventing fraud. In fact, a study by the state three years ago found that other welfare changes had made finger imaging largely superfluous from the outset. But the state has refused to make that $658,000 study public, and now calls it outdated and flawed.
"We think the finger imaging program is an effective method of fraud deterrence," said Robert Doar, executive deputy commissioner for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, "and along with a whole other range of things related to welfare reform, has contributed to making the welfare program in New York significantly more credible."
But last week, Paul J. Sticha, an expert who recently reviewed such programs nationally for the federal government, said the study was highly relevant. In an experiment using control groups, finger imaging made no difference in the dropout or approval rates of welfare recipients, regardless of whether they were told in advance that their fingerprints would be checked.
Had the report been made public, Mr. Sticha said, other states that adopted such programs might have reconsidered.
The New York expansion of finger imaging into Medicaid comes as the biometric identification industry -- which uses computers to recognize personal physical characteristics -- is lobbying hard around the country to bridge the gap between public acceptance of such systems to curb welfare fraud, and public resistance to more general applications, like requiring fingerprint images for cashing a check, getting a driver's license or filling a prescription.
Besides New York, seven states -- California, Connecticut, New Jersey, Texas, Arizona, Massachusetts and Illinois -- use such systems for some or all welfare recipients, and eight more are considering them.
But most of those states have rejected finger imaging for Medicaid patients, since their own health officials say it would do little to curb Medicaid fraud, which is committed mainly by doctors. The officials also say it could work against the bipartisan goal of encouraging enrollment by the uninsured.
"Those of us who are concerned about fraud and abuse in the Medicaid program recognize that the major problems are not in beneficiary enrollment, but rather, durable medical equipment that isn't delivered, or home health services that don't show up," said Timothy M. Westmoreland, chief Medicaid official for the federal government. "I would be concerned about any policy that had the effect of steering eligible people away from Medicaid."
A federal official said the Health Care Financing Administration would investigate whether a finger imaging requirement was legal for Medicaid, adding, "Some verification is appropriate, and other activities that suggest verification are intimidation of eligible people."
New York is now expanding its $40 million contract with a French defense contractor to require the finger imaging of about 440,000 adults who qualify for Medicaid. (Most of the 2.7 million Medicaid patients in New York would be exempted.)
John Signor, a spokesman for the state's Department of Health, said the move would save money by "precluding people from accessing health benefits in different locations under multiple identities," and might be especially useful against illegal prescription drug sales.
The program will use the finger imaging equipment and computer system already being used to screen food stamp and cash recipients at welfare offices, and the state will pay extra fees to cover fingerprints from Medicaid applicants. State records show that officials are seeking approval to pay $9.9 million more to a Tacoma, Wash., subsidiary of the French contractor, Sagem Morpho Inc., and to extend its contract another year to June 2, 2002.
Mr. Doar credited finger imaging with the dropping of more than 38,223 people from public aid since it began in 1995 at a savings of $297 million, most of it in the first two years.
But a different picture is conveyed in the state's report, "Automated Finger Imaging System Comprehensive Evaluation," which was submitted in 1997 by the research consultants Macro International and Maximus Inc., and accepted in 1998.
Mr. Sticha, who reviewed a copy of the 120-page final report obtained by The New York Times, said the most scientifically compelling part was the controlled experiment that tracked groups of recipients told to report for recertification at welfare centers in the Bronx and two upstate counties, Monroe and Niagara.
"The experiment found no difference between the treatment and control groups, or the differences seem to be just as likely to be in one direction as the other," Mr. Sticha said. "The picture from the experiment is zero."
Other parts of the study that examined overall caseload trends were more difficult to interpret, he added. Researchers tried to give the state the benefit of the doubt, Mr. Sticha said, in calculating $40 million in annual savings from an estimate that the caseload was 3.7 percent lower than had been predicted, even though that figure fell within the 5 percent margin of error.
The study found it statistically impossible to calculate how many people stayed away because of finger imaging, rather than because of all the other reasons caseloads were already declining sharply, including a rebounding economy, tough work requirements, anti-fraud home inspections and shortened eligibility.
In a 1999 report for the Agriculture Department on biometric systems nationwide, Mr. Sticha estimated that finger imaging resulted in a 1.3 percent decline in the welfare rolls due to both reduced fraud and the deterrence of eligible people for reasons like embarrassment or fear. But he now says that had he seen the New York study, "I would have revised that estimate downward."
In interviews, officials in New Jersey, Texas and Connecticut stressed the role of finger imaging as a kind of burglar alarm that restores public confidence in the welfare system's integrity. But they have quietly scaled back claims of huge savings trumpeted in early accounts about pilot projects that cut thousands of people off welfare after they failed to show up for finger imaging.
It later turned out many recipients had not received the notices, did not understand them or could not come in before officials cut them off from legitimate benefits they needed, said Michael Mahoney, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Human Services. After weeks or months, many were able to reopen their cases.
In New York City, for example, of 11,021 people on home relief who were cut off in 1995 in the first finger-imaging call-up, only 4,242 were still off the rolls by August 1996.
Moreover, officials and researchers agree, no program can distinguish between those who shun finger imaging for fear of being caught in fraud, and those who stay away because of libertarian beliefs or privacy concerns.
Since 1995, at least 15 state legislatures have quashed biometric measures affecting nonwelfare citizens, and a few, including Michigan and Virginia, have passed laws banning or restricting their use.
Citing privacy concerns, New Jersey lawmakers rejected a proposal by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman last year to issue "smart cards" that would store medical, credit and driving records on a single ID card. The state is nevertheless expanding finger imaging to welfare applicants statewide, from a four-year pilot project in and around Newark.
The pilot program, which officials say has never been evaluated, was started after interstate comparisons of Social Security numbers and names yielded 1,500 matches with New York welfare recipients. But long after the headlines faded, it turned out that all but 60 of those matches were mistakes or for people who had legitimately moved.
Last year the Arizona Legislature ordered state administrators to find a way to extend finger imaging to Medicaid, and to include equipment to check fingerprints at pharmacies. But the administrators protested.
"It didn't make much sense to us," said Jerry Hancock, director of the finger imaging program for Arizona.
A Medicaid patient cannot get more health care by posing as two people, he noted. He said health and social services officials had told legislators that the program was unlikely to be economical, and the harm to those cut off even temporarily from timely care could be expensive.
But biometrics expansion seems to have a life of its own, Mr. Hancock said. "All these large companies are out there at every legislature in the United States and they're pushing and pushing and pushing for their programs," he said.
New York's use of finger imaging for Medicaid patients, authorized by its 1997 welfare law, will not affect groups whose care accounts for three-quarters of the Medicaid budget: nursing home residents, home health care recipients, people in institutions and people who apply for Medicaid in a hospital or clinic rather than a social service office.
Mr. Signor said he was unable to give an estimate of the fraud to be deterred, or to explain how officials had estimated that savings would be $8 million the first year.
The Legislature in New York had required an independent evaluation in 1995 when finger imaging was set up as a test project in 12 counties. But when every jurisdiction in the state clamored to sign up, finger imaging was required statewide.
Since the study was already under way, state officials allowed it to continue. Researchers analyzing caseload trends in New York City and the 12 original counties found that before finger imaging started, the rolls were already dropping sharply.
The study concludes: "If a state or locality already has an aggressive anti-fraud program, finger-imaging may have relatively little impact, especially if multiple case fraud is not a major problem compared to other types of welfare fraud."
The study was shelved. But a 1998 audit of welfare fraud programs by H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, found that savings claimed by New York City were overstated, and asked what had happened to the evaluation. The Pataki administration would not release it, saying there was no legislative mandate to do so.
David J. Heins, director of the New Jersey Division of Family Development, says overstated claims of savings have put pressure on other states to follow suit. Under the state's welfare-to-work rules, however, it is hard for a recipient to remain on the rolls at all, let alone under multiple identities, he said.
But at this point, even if the program were only to break even, he and other administrators say they need finger imaging. "We're trying to instill something here," he said: "a public confidence."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; FINGERPRINTING; WELFARE (US); RESEARCH; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DOCTORS; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES FINGERPRINTING (92%); WELFARE FRAUD (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); BIOMETRICS (78%); MEDICARE FRAUD (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); IDENTITY SECURITY (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA PAUL J STICHA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



703 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: City to Sell 13 Lots in Harlem for Housing, at $1 Apiece

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
In their latest effort to rid the city of big tracts of land in Harlem, officials are selling 13 large vacant lots for $1 apiece and expect to receive about 50 applications today from developers offering plans for new housing.
The sales are the second round under a city plan to divest itself of properties in Harlem it acquired over the years because of abandonment by landlords, tax foreclosures and arson. In April, the city sold eight vacant lots to six developers for $1 each. All told, city officials said they expect to see the 21 sites developed with about 2,500 units of middle-income and market rate housing over the next two years. This round includes the largest remaining parcels of vacant land in the city's inventory. 
 "What we've done is taken most of the really conspicuously blighted property and put in on an accelerated timetable for development," said James F. Lima, assistant commissioner for the Division of New Construction of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. "There is a tremendous amount of vacant land that was cleared by urban renewal and has remained vacant for years."
The $1 price tag is intended to encourage nonprofit developers to apply for the lots, according to the Housing Department. Although $145 million in public and private subsidies were available to developers who were awarded the last round of lots, no such subsidies are attached to the new group of sites.
The city acquired many of the properties in the late 1960's and early 1970's, and by 1975, the majority of Harlem's property -- about 65 percent -- had fallen into the city's hands. Some properties, including many along a swath of Frederick Douglass Boulevard in central Harlem, have remained there ever since, costing the city hundreds of thousands of dollars each year in maintenance costs alone.
The plan to require developers to submit specific housing plans for the property was formed by the Manhattan borough president, C. Virginia Fields, and the Housing Department. They were responding to concerns from community leaders that too much property was being auctioned to the highest bidder without any specific plans in mind, and that the buyers would merely hold the land until they could resell it for a higher price.
"Without a plan for the land, it will be at best accidental that the vision of the community is fulfilled," said Councilman Bill Perkins, who represents central Harlem. "What usually happens is they auction off the lot, but the same rat-infested, garbage-infested conditions continue after the sale, because it goes to speculators and profiteers who hold on to the lot until they can get a better deal."
Three months ago, Mr. Perkins blocked an auction of 24 plots of land in his district to thwart speculators. Denise Collins, a spokeswoman for city's Department of Citywide Administrative Services, said the Harlem lots were considered surplus because when they were offered to other city agencies, none were interested in making use of them.
"All we're asking is that the city remove it from the city's portfolio and sell it to whoever can make use of it," Ms. Collins said.
Ms. Fields wants at least six of those lots to be earmarked for new housing, and they could potentially become part of a future round of $1 sales. "The city is in a position to drive the development of housing, by developing a plan, as opposed to putting it on the auction block for the highest bidder," she said. "The highest bidder does not necessarily know what's best for a community."
But her housing plan has drawn criticism from some neighborhood groups who fear the property could end up in the hands of developers from outside Harlem, who they say may not have the neighborhood's best interests in mind.
In April, when the city sold the first group of eight vacant lots for $1, only one of the six developers chosen was based in Harlem. Among those whose proposals were rejected were the Abyssinian Development Corporation, a nonprofit developer affiliated with the Abyssinian Baptist Church of Harlem, and Hope Community, a nonprofit developer responsible for hundreds of new units of housing in East Harlem.
Among the companies chosen were the Richman Group of New York, the Glenwood Management Corporation, which has erected several buildings on the Upper East Side, and Citywide Builders, a consortium of minority-owned development firms in New York.
Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the housing agency, said the city selected those developers based on the merit of their proposals but was working with local nonprofit community developers on other sites in Harlem. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING PROPERTY VACANCIES (92%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); FORECLOSURE (71%); ARSON (56%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



704 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Mental State Is Considered in Dual Killing

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., Aug. 29

 BODY:
The doctor charged last weekend with smothering her elderly parents in Chatham Township, N.J., was being treated for manic-depression about this time last year, court records show. And today, lawyers for the Harvard-educated urologist, Dr. I. Kathleen Hagen, said that they were developing a defense based on her mental condition.
Gaunt, stooped and looking exhausted, Dr. Hagen shuffled into a Morris County courtroom in shackles and manacles today for her first appearance in the case. Her lead lawyer, Gerard Hanlon, said she had only a general understanding of the charges. She was held in $2.5 million bail by Judge N. Peter Conforti, pending a psychiatric evaluation. 
 "We've all been around," Mr. Hanlon said after a brief hearing. "I think we can all recognize a disturbed and distraught woman when we see one."
Dr. Hagen, 54, seemed barely to notice the proceedings, but toward the end of her brief appearance, when Mr. Hanlon patted her lightly on her back, she raised her downcast yes for a moment, leaning slightly and briefly toward his shoulder.
Saturday, the Morris County prosecutor, John B. Dangler, charged Dr. Hagen with asphyxiating her mother, Idella Hagen, 92, and father, James Hagen, 86, as they lay in their beds in their dilapidated home in Chatham. The police said Dr. Hagen had lived in the house with the bodies for several days until she called Saturday to report the deaths.
Mr. Hanlon told reporters today that Dr. Hagen was aware that her parents were dead, but that she had been withdrawn and unresponsive during his two interviews with her, and he had managed to get little information. He said the defense would raise her mental condition as an issue, but was not more specific.
"Obviously there is a state-of-mind issue here that is huge," he said. "Something is wrong."
From court records and conversations with people who know Dr. Hagen, a picture emerged today of a brilliant, driven woman who pushed herself to stand out in a field dominated by men when she graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1973. But in middle age she found herself twice divorced, alone and unemployed, her own health precarious as she struggled to care for elderly parents with little help but their dwindling savings.
"She said she was going to have to start supporting her parents," her first husband, Peter A. Cook, said from his home in New Hampshire, recalling an out-of-the-blue phone call she made to him this summer, after years of silence between them.
"She made some allusions to her parents' retirement money, about it being finite, and that unless she sold the house, she was going to be in trouble," he said.
The house, Mr. Cook said, was an inn on St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands that Dr. Hagen bought and restored with William Tyrrell, her second husband, whom she married in 1984, five years after an amicable divorce from Mr. Cook. She put herself on part-time status at the University of New Jersey College of Medicine, where she was teaching and practicing.
She made frequent trips to the inn, where Mr. Tyrrell remained, until 1992, when the venture failed and the couple moved to Rumson, N.J. There, Mr. Tyrrell became a business executive, and Dr. Hagen gave up teaching and practicing medicine.
Mr. Tyrrell moved out of their house in 1995, after losing a leg in a motorcycle accident, and two years later Dr. Hagen sued for divorce in Monmouth County Court on grounds of abandonment. According to court records, they were divorced in 1997, and Mr. Tyrrell agreed to pay her $65,000 a year until the end of 1999, or until she remarried or got a job paying more than $80,000 a year. Dr. Hagen moved into her parents' home in July.
In September 1996, a year after her husband had moved out, Dr. Hagen scuffled with officers trying to keep her from entering a go-go bar in Easton, N.J. She had called the bar several times to say she intended to perform a birthday dance on the bar for Mr. Tyrrell. She later filed a federal suit accusing the Easton police of violating her civil rights.
In court documents related to the suit, her physician, Dr. Michael D. Walsh of Long Branch, submitted a medical history saying that she suffered from a thyroid condition and from bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depression, and was taking lithium. A message on Dr. Walsh's office phone today said he would be away until next week.
The symptoms of manic-depression are cyclical, and it is not known if Dr. Hagen was still being treated for it. Her lawyer, Mr. Hanlon, said today that he believed she had been taking medication until recently, but he did not know what kind, or for what ailment.
Mr. Hanlon said Dr. Hagen told him that she had not slept for more than a few minutes at a time since she moved in with her parents, and that she had lost 20 pounds. In court today she appeared aged beyond her years, a shock of brightly bleached hair showing above dark roots.
After graduating from Harvard Medical School, Dr. Hagen spent six years as a resident at Massachusetts General Hospital, where she was the first woman to specialize in urology. She taught surgery at Harvard Medical School for six years before moving to the New Jersey state medical school, where she became the first woman to head the urology department.
Her first husband, Mr. Cook, said that from the start, Dr. Hagen had shown a pioneer's determination to succeed in an atmosphere that was not always friendly.
"She was under intense scrutiny from the higher-ups in the bastions of Boston's medical community," he said. "There's an old boy's club if ever there was one."
He added, "She was the one they watched."
Dr. Hagen lacked a strong network of friends, Mr. Cook said, and she complained to him years ago that her work at New Jersey's medical school was less and less fulfilling, since it increasingly consisted of administrative chores.
"I think she finally got off the treadmill," Mr. Cook said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. I. Kathleen Hagen, charged with asphyxiating her parents, at a bail hearing. Court records show she suffered from manic-depression. (Pool Photo)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATHAM TOWNSHIP (NJ); UNITED STATES (58%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (50%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); AGING (73%); MEN (71%); 

PERSON: HAGEN, I KATHLEEN (DR); PETERSON, IVER; HAGEN, JAMES; HAGEN, IDELLA F I KATHLEEN HAGEN (95%); GERARD HANLON (79%); WILLIAM TYRRELL (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



705 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Unsolicited Offer Is Made For London Stock Exchange
OM Gruppen, the owner of the Stockholm stock exchange, began a $1.2 billion hostile bid for the much larger London Stock Exchange, touching off the first ever takeover fight for an exchange. The London exchange then postponed its Sept. 14 shareholder vote on its planned merger with the Frankfurt exchange. 
 The Frankfurt exchange indicated it was willing to consider changing the terms of its agreement with the London exchange into "a friendly takeover" instead of a merger. And the London exchange could also draw interest from the Euronext alliance of the Paris, Belgian and Dutch exchanges. Page C4.
 
Companies to Set Up a Linux Lab
In a validation of the growing popularity of Linux, Intel, I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard and several other companies plan to announce today that they will jointly create and finance a laboratory for developing and testing advances in the operating system. C5.
 
Consolidation Seen in Wine Industry
The Foster's Brewing Group's $1.14 billion acquisition of Beringer Wine is likely to prompt a wave of consolidation among California's premium wineries. Analysts and industry executives said the deal effectively puts every significant independent wine maker in play, like Kendall-Jackson and Robert Mondavi. Shares of Beringer rose $10.25, to $55.31. C2.
 
Speedy Deal Lifts AT&T Shares
Shares of AT&T rose on the news that the company had incorporated Excite@Home into its operations more quickly than expected, suggesting a speedier move into high-speed Internet services. Investors bid AT&T's stock up $1.13, to $32. But Standard & Poor's said that it had put the company's debt on review for a possible downgrade. C5.
 
Dow and S.& P. Slip; Nasdaq Rises
Stocks ended mixed, with banks and airlines mainly lower while some technology issues made modest gains. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 37.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,215.10. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 4.25 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,509.84. The Nasdaq composite index finished up 11.58 points, or 0.3 percent, to 4,082.17. C8.
 
Home Sales Surged 14.7% in July
Sales of new single-family homes surged 14.7 percent in July, well above expectations, and the consumer confidence index dipped slightly but remained close to the record. C2.
 
The Power of Contrary Thinking
Poppy King says her mother brought her up to think differently -- a quality that has proved to be both a blessing and a liability in her life. But it was certainly a blessing when it led her to start up Poppy Industries, an Australian cosmetics and lingerie company. Her biggest passion is flea markets, vintage stores and bric-a-brac. The Boss. C7.
 
Investors to Raise Stake in Hyundai
A group of Western investors, including Wilbur L. Ross, a specialist in corporate rescues, and the American International Group plan to increase their investment in three financial affiliates of the Hyundai Group to gain a firmer hold on Hyundai Securities, South Korea's largest brokerage firm. C4.
 
Travel Agents Find Way to Adapt
Although hundreds of small travel agencies have gone out of business as airlines sharply reduced commissions, smart travel-management companies, which charge fees for services rendered rather than depending on commissions, are prospering by offering specialized services, especially for corporate travel. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,215.10 down 37.74
Nasdaq composite -- 4,082.17 up 11.58
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.74% up 0.02
The euro -- $0.8925 down 0.0072
The dollar -- 106.03 yen down 0.45
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Leading Indicators
July figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: -0.1%
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Beringer Wine Estates Holdings shares since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (70%); NETHERLANDS (57%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); FOSTER'S GROUP LTD (69%); INTEL CORP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); LINUX LAB IN (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINUX LAB IN (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (70%); NETHERLANDS (57%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); TAKEOVERS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); WINERIES (72%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); NEW HOME SALES (69%); LINGERIE (67%); COSMETICS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (60%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERT MONDAVI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



706 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: A City Revived, but With Buildings Falling Right and Left

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 29

 BODY:
Things had been looking up in this long-suffering city. Downtown was thriving again, the new mayor was still savoring his honeymoon and this month's Republican National Convention left Philadelphians with a feel-good, ego-boosting bounce.
But the euphoria has come crashing down with a spate of building collapses that have helped to remind people here that there is a crumbling wasteland of neglected neighborhoods just beyond the glittering city center. 
 A soggy summer, decades of deferred maintenance and Philadelphia's swampy past have conspired against the city's 30,000 vacant and decaying row houses, most of them north of the office buildings and hotels that have sprouted downtown.
Since last Thursday, 25 buildings have come down, either partially or fully, and city officials estimate that another 3,100 are in imminent danger of falling. So far no one has been seriously hurt, though two men were slightly injured by the collapse of a wooden awning. Until last week, the city averaged about 20 collapses a year.
"When is it going to stop?" Robert Solvibile, the commissioner in charge of abandoned buildings, asked with exasperation. "This is unbelievable."
Calling the rash of collapses a crisis, housing officials commandeered a police helicopter this morning and began an aerial survey of the city's most dilapidated neighborhoods. Mr. Solvibile said airborne inspectors had spotted more than a dozen buildings on the verge of tumbling down.
In an effort to triple its cadre of 20 inspectors by the end of the week, the city is teaching housing authority employees how to spot a dangerously decaying row house. Officials say they plan to double the number of emergency demolitions to about 60 a week.
"We see a problem, and we're determined to make sure it's solved before it becomes a tragedy," said Barbara Grant, a spokeswoman for Mayor John F. Street, who has been in office since January.
Despite the recent blush of prosperity, much of Philadelphia, with a population of 1.4 million, remains untouched by the good times. The city is still saddled with tracts of abandoned houses, the legacy of a hemorrhaging of 500,000 residents that began in the 1950's. During years of mismanagement and municipal bankruptcy, the rows of elegantly detailed brick houses, many now vacant, began to fall into disrepair.
Even occupied houses began to crumble as their owners grew older and poorer. Mark Alan Hughes, a professor of public policy at the University of Pennsylvania, said recent studies indicated that more than half of all home owners in the city were over 60 years old.
"You have elderly widows who haven't been up to the third floor in years," Mr. Hughes said. "Then a little leak in the roof and a rainy summer can lead to a disaster."
Philadelphia's swampy terrain has also contributed to the sagging foundations and listing facades. Although William Penn built his colonial outpost on solid ground, the 19th-century builders who threw up thousands of brick-faced row houses for the growing middle class were not as thoughtful. Many of the most troubled neighborhoods were built on the soot and debris that developers used to fill in the marshes that once stretched alongside the Schuylkill and Delaware River.
Even wealthy home owners are bedeviled by the unstable ground, said Mr. Hughes, who had to shore up the walls of his 1866 home with reinforcing rods.
"If you have the resources, you can deal with it," he said. "If you don't, it can be catastrophic."
In recent years, other aging cities have tackled the problem of abandoned housing with more success. Chicago, Baltimore and New York have aggressive programs to quickly identity and demolish buildings at risk of falling down. Ilyse Fink, a spokeswoman for the Department of Buildings in New York, said there were only a handful of collapsed buildings incidents last year, most of them involving new construction. "We just don't have as many empty buildings as we used to," Ms. Fink said.
As part of his mayoral campaign last year, Mayor Street made urban renewal a central theme and he has promised a $250-million neighborhood rehabilitation program that will be paid for with bonds.
Many of those who live in the city's more bedraggled neighborhoods say they have already seen some improvements. Soon after his election, the mayor began a program that removed more than 30,000 abandoned cars from local streets. Even before the recent spell of collapses, a fast-track demolition process allowed contractors to dismantle houses as soon as they were condemned by inspectors.
Despite the improvements, it was hard to find anyone in North Philadelphia with rosy predictions of rebirth. After years of living with drugs, poverty and violent crime, many residents said they now had a new fear: dying beneath a pile bricks.
Standing in front of a vacant lot on 29th Street, Charles Bark, 14, recalled how the house there had quietly fallen in on itself a few days earlier.
"The cloud of dust was so thick, I couldn't see anything," he said, shaking his head. He looked down the block and gestured to dozens of other forlorn houses, their facades peeling off, others with roofs supporting small groves of trees.
"We hang out in front of these abandoned buildings," he said. "Any one of those could go. Our house could fall. The house next door could fall. We just don't know anymore."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Downtown Philadelphia is bustling, but not far away are neighborhoods of dilapidated buildings. Charles Bark, 14, looked at the remains of a collapsed building yesterday in his North Philadelphia neighborhood. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); TRENDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HELICOPTERS (51%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW MARK ALAN HUGHES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



707 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Says Key to Drug Fight Is for U.S. to Tame Demand Here

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Aug. 29

 BODY:
President Andres Pastrana said today that Colombia cannot put a dent in international drug trafficking until the United States and other countries do much more to control their citizens' appetite for drugs.
"Colombia can put a stop to drugs here at some point, but if the demand continues, somebody else somewhere else in the world is going to produce them," Mr. Pastrana said in an interview at a restored monastery overlooking the cannon-studded colonial walls that once protected this port from English and French pirates. "We are already getting intelligence reports of possible plantings in Africa." 
 "What we are talking about is the most lucrative business in the world," he added, "unless the recent spike in oil prices has made it the second-most-lucrative business in the world."
To be sure, reducing the South American drug trade has proven a difficult and complex matter, and drug-producing nations have long made the same contentions. But Mr. Pastrana's wary words seemed to strike a dissonant note, coming on the eve of President Clinton's arrival here Wednesday, when the leaders are to open a $7.5 billion plan to address the spreading trafficking problem in Colombia.
The joint plan aims to cut coca plantings here by 50 percent in five years through a combination of military pressure, plant eradication and social reforms.
Mr. Clinton's visit will be the first by a United States president in 11 years, and it had been seen here as a triumph for Mr. Pastrana's presidency, now at the midpoint of his four-year term.
The plan includes $1.3 billion in aid to train and outfit a Colombian anti-drug brigade to support police efforts in eradicating coca and in halting processing and shipment of coca and cocaine in two southern provinces that are largely controlled by Colombia's largest guerrilla group.
Regional leaders have expressed fears that the plan will widen the guerrilla war and spill refugees and coca plants across the Brazilian, Ecuadoran and Peruvian borders. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Pastrana will attempt to counter those concerns with clear public commitments for more alternative agricultural development and with relief for coca growers who lose their illegal livelihoods.
Mr. Clinton tried today to ease local concerns about American intervention in a videotaped message to Colombians. "Please do not misunderstand our purpose," he said. "We have no military objective. Let me be clear about the role of the United States. First, it is not for us to propose a plan. We are supporting the Colombian plan."
As a former television journalist and the son of a former president, Mr. Pastrana has a casual charisma. But rising unemployment and stalled peace talks with Marxist rebel groups that control large areas where the drug industry is spreading have made him an unpopular president. It is not easy to be optimistic in a country where the government has lost control of half of its territory, two million people have been displaced and parents of means buy bullet-proof vests for their children.
He said he was confident that the guerrillas could be persuaded to negotiate a peace and even to encourage volunteer eradication of coca crops by peasant farmers.
He also said the United States should play a more active role in the peace efforts, to encourage the guerrillas to join the fight against drugs. State Department officials met with leaders of the country's largest guerrilla group two years ago in Costa Rica, but all contacts were broken after rebels killed three Americans last year and refused to turn over any suspects.
Mr. Pastrana said the United States could go a long way toward helping him revive a lagging economy by granting Colombia trade preferences. He suggested that Colombia could join the United States, Mexico and Canada in the North American Free Trade Agreement or that his country and the United States could enter into the special trade relationship. American officials have said that the possibility of such steps will be up to the next president and Congress.
Mr. Pastrana was also sanguine that his armed forces are working to sever their relations with marauding right-wing paramilitary bands, which have frequently massacred peasants, adding, "I am not only committed to human rights because President Clinton is committed to human rights."
Mr. Pastrana was dressed casually in a short-sleeve shirt and khaki pants, as if he were just another tourist trying to keep cool under the sweltering Caribbean sun. But in an interview that was otherwise characterized by hearty laughs and easy conversation, it was on the subject of the international drug trade that Mr. Pastrana expressed the most caution.
"There are short-term, medium-term and long-term things we can do, but I think we need more of a commitment from the world community," he said. "Maybe if we had more money, we could make more progress."
The 50 percent reduction in coca cultivation that Mr. Pastrana hopes to achieve would return Colombia to the levels of 1997. Coca production has exploded here, despite a large increase in American aid, as Peruvian and Bolivian eradication efforts made great strides. When Colombian traffickers could no longer rely on Peruvian and Bolivian sources, they began large plantings here, and the crop strains have become more potent.
The increase in Colombian plantings, in turn, has added hundreds of millions of dollars of protection money to guerrilla coffers, American and Colombian officials say, expanding rebel ranks and refueling the 40-year-old guerrilla war.
In recent months guerrillas have attacked small police detachments around the country, forcing the police to abandon scores of towns and villages.
Mr. Pastrana said the United States had come a long way from viewing the drug traffic as merely "a police problem" and to understanding it as a social disease that requires a multipronged effort to resolve. He saved his toughest words for Europe (without naming any countries).
"The perception I have of Europe," he said, "is that the Europeans like to think this problem doesn't touch them. But every day the new trafficking routes are targeting Europe. A big market is developing there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Andres Pastrana of Colombia at an interview yesterday. (Associated Press); A Colombian police sniper took up a position in Cartagena yesterday as part of the security preparations for a visit by President Clinton today. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); COCAINE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (70%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); REFUGEES (64%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: PASTRANA, ANDRES (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



708 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Lieberman's Revival of the Religious Left

BYLINE: By Eleanor Brown; Eleanor Brown, a lawyer, is a fellow at the New America Foundation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
When we hear the term "religious activists" on the evening news, we think automatically of Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson and a parade of conservative Christian evangelicals. But now Joe Lieberman, a Jewish, mostly liberal Democrat running for vice president, is talking about God, and as he does so, reviving a potent tradition of a different kind of religious activism, one that that had lain dormant since an assassin's bullet struck down Martin Luther King in 1968. When Mr. Lieberman called for a "new spiritual awakening" in America in a sermon Sunday at a black church, he nourished the hope of those more than ready for a rebirth of a nationally prominent religious left.
Mr. Lieberman's presence on the ticket has driven a wedge between the words "religious" and "right," a pairing that many had come to see as automatic. 
 His words echo Dr. King's in haunting ways. It is "midnight within the moral order," Dr. King once wrote. "At midnight colors lose their distinctiveness and become a sullen shade of gray." He added, "Midnight is the hour when men desperately seek to obey the Eleventh Commandment, 'Thou shalt not get caught.' "
Mr. Lieberman condemns a "values vacuum," which he describes as "an amorphous area where moral certainty fears to tread" and where there are "fewer and fewer bright lines and more and more blurs of gray." For some, he says, "the Ten Commandments have become little more than another 'do and don't' list."
Similar words about moral relativism might be said by the religious right, of course, but to far different political ends. If Mr. Lieberman succeeds at reuniting morality and political liberalism, he will have revived one of the most powerful movements in American history -- a potent force in the abolition of slavery, labor reforms and the civil rights movement.
In the last few decades, the debate about religion in public life has been unable to move beyond a divisive standoff between religious conservatives and liberal secularists who are overwhelmingly hostile to public displays of religiosity. These secularists have embraced an understanding of the Constitution as mandating a wall of separation between church and state. In the interest of fostering social cooperation and undermining religious bigotry, liberals insist that we shed those aspects of our identities that are non-negotiable -- including our religious identities -- before entering the public sphere.
Liberals have misidentified the source of the problem. What is problematic is not vibrant religious activism in the public square, but the consistent association of religious devotion with a particular set of dogmatic political opinions. And conservatives have exacerbated the misconception with their strong-arm tactics and unwillingness to entertain debate on their political views.
Sadly, public religiosity is now automatically associated with a core set of political positions. The intensity of the fundamentalist Christian conservative opposition to abortion may be understandable, relating as it does to the central religious idea of the sanctity of life. However, the Christian conservatives have taken on other controversial political positions with no clear connection to religious belief. What, for example, does Christianity have to do with supply-side economics?
This is why Mr. Lieberman is so important. By severing the connection between religious devotion and political conservatism, he has injected a new force into the wider political debate. Although much has been made of his moral rhetoric, he receives high ratings from liberal groups and on many issues holds views diametrically opposed to those of the religious right. Mr. Lieberman demonstrates that people of religious faith can, and do, disagree on important political issues that imply deeply held moral beliefs. More important, he represents a willingness -- rarely seen among liberals at the national level -- to ground his political positions in specific religious commitments. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HISTORY (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); SLAVERY (62%); 

PERSON: BROWN, ELEANOR; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68) JOE LIEBERMAN (92%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



709 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic and Asian Populations Expand

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
An influx of Asians and Hispanics eager to fill new construction and service-industry jobs in Las Vegas helped make Nevada the fastest-growing state in the 1990's, new government figures show.
Census Bureau estimates being released on Wednesday show that increases in Asians and Hispanics, the nation's two fastest-growing minority groups, are also helping population gains outside Nevada. 
 From July 1, 1990, to July 1, 1999, the nation's Asian and Pacific Islander population grew 43 percent, to 10.8 million, and the Hispanic population grew 38.8 percent, to 31.3 million, the Census estimates show. These are the last such estimates to be released before detailed Census 2000 results come out next year.
California, Texas and New York, the three most populous states, continue to have the highest minority population, but Nevada, Georgia and North Carolina experienced the biggest percentage increases, said Larry Sink, a Census analyst.
Nationally, the country's white population increased 7.3 percent between 1990 and 1999, to 224.6 million. Blacks remained the country's largest minority group, experiencing a 13.8 percent increase during the same period, to 34.8 million, while the American Indian and Alaska Native population increased 15.5 percent, to 2.3 million.
"The white, black and American Indian populations for the most part just don't show that dramatic of a change," Mr. Sink said. Over all, the Hispanic and Asian growth is "largely being fueled by immigration."
Nevada's 50 percent population growth led all states during the 1990's. Its Asian population rose 123.7 percent, to 88,208, the largest such increase in the nation, while its Hispanic population rose 144.6 percent, to 304,364. Hispanics can be of any race.
New hotel and casino construction in Clark County opened up more jobs during the decade, said Steven Kwon, a Las Vegas architect and founder of the area's Asian Chamber of Commerce.
In Clark County alone, the Hispanic population rose 164.3 percent, to 219,075, while the Asian population rose 139.3 percent, to 64,636.
California had the biggest Hispanic population with 10.4 million. More than 2.7 million Hispanics moved into the state between 1990 and 1999, a 35.8 percent increase.
Arkansas, meanwhile, had the biggest percentage growth among Hispanics, increasing 170.3 percent, to 53,729 in the 1990's.
Millie Johnson moved to Springdale, Ark., 13 years ago and is office manager at the Northwest Arkansas Multicultural Center there. Jobs available at the area's chicken and poultry plants drew in the new population, but the Hispanic influx still caught a lot of the area's longtime residents by surprise, she said.
"There has definitely been a dramatic difference," she said.
On the county level, Mr. Sink at Census said some of the most significant increases in Hispanic growth occurred in the Atlanta area, including Gwinnett County, Ga., (up 215.6 percent in the 1990's, to 26,731) and Cobb County, Ga. (up 158.9 percent, to 24,350).
Los Angeles County, meanwhile, had the biggest Hispanic population by county: 4.1 million, up 23.6 percent.
As for Asian population by state, California had the biggest, 4 million, up 36.8 percent in the 1990's. New York was second with just over 1 million, up 44.5 percent.
By county, Los Angeles County also topped all the others in Asian population with 1.2 million, up 26.1 percent in the decade. Honolulu County was next with 562,403, up 5.3 percent.
Besides Clark County, Nev., Mr. Sink said other significant county-level increases in Asian population occurred in Fort Bend, Tex. (up 127.6 percent, to 33,048), as well as the two Georgia counties again: Gwinnett (up 180.7 percent, to 28,793) and Cobb (up 135.7 percent, to 18,758).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; CALIFORNIA; TEXAS; NEW YORK STATE; NORTH CAROLINA; LAS VEGAS (NEV); GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEVADA, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETIES; CENSUS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; BLACKS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS CENSUS (93%); POPULATION GROWTH (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CASINOS (78%); POULTRY (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); TRENDS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); REFUGEES (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); POULTRY PROCESSING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LARRY SINK (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



710 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by B. Drummond Ayres Jr.

 BODY:

THE INTEREST GROUPS
 
HOLLYWOOD BACKLASH -- Joe Eszterhas, the Hollywood screenwriter whose credits include "Basic Instinct" and "Showgirls," is urging industry colleagues, many of them Democrats, not to contribute to the Democratic Party until Vice President Al Gore and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut explain their position on "freedom of creative expression." In a full-page ad in Tuesday's Daily Variety, the widely read trade paper, Mr. Eszterhas took issue with comments by Mr. Lieberman about excessive sex and violence in movies and television shows. He accused Mr. Lieberman of making "not so veiled threats" about withholding license renewals, instituting federal prosecutions and legislating censorship if writers and studios do not censor themselves. Mr. Lieberman's spokeswoman, Kiki McLean, replied, "When there are products that are not necessarily good for our kids and our families, he's not going to be shy to challenge the industry. He's somebody who believes strongly in the First Amendment and has always had an open dialogue about what we can do voluntarily to help our families do better." (NYT) 

LABOR TO PUT GORE ONLINE -- The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has created a Web site where Vice President Al Gore will hold a live Webcast on Labor Day for union members. The Web site will allow union members to send e-mail messages to political candidates, including the vice president, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and members of Congress. The Web site -- www.workingfamilies.com -- will also feature a speech by John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, and video messages from what labor leaders call "The Texas Truth Squad," a group of workers from Texas who are traveling the country to accuse Governor Bush of doing little on issues that unions care about. On the site, users will also be able to register to vote and can examine the voting record of candidates for Federal office. The site will be up from Aug. 30 to Sept. 6.
 Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
THE REFORM PARTY
 
BUCHANAN OUT OF ACTION -- The Reform Party presidential hopeful Patrick J. Buchanan has canceled all public appearances until after Labor Day, after undergoing a second gall bladder operation because doctors found another stone. "He feels a lot better and is coming along fine," said Brian Doherty, his campaign spokesman. "But after two operations and losing 15 pounds or so from not being able to eat much, he needs to rest another week." Mr. Buchanan first underwent a gall stone operation on Aug. 17. After being released from the hospital on Aug. 19, he was recovering at his Northern Virginia home when he had a sharp abdominal pain. Doctors removed a second stone on Aug. 23 and he was released three days later. He plans to remain at home until Sept. 5. (NYT)
 
THE DEMOCRATS
 
LIEBERMAN ON GORE -- Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut has a new, pointed pitch about his Democratic running mate. He says Vice President Al Gore is the best leader for the information age. Speaking to several thousand communications workers in Anaheim, Calif., yesterday, Mr. Lieberman warned that the United States cannot afford to have a president in the 21st century who does not understand the new economy and technology. Then, in a not-so-veiled dig at whether Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has the depth and preparedness to lead in a high-tech age, he invoked a couple of not-so-swift television cartoon characters, saying, "We as a nation can't afford to make Barney Rubble investments in a George Jetson world." Mr. Lieberman said that Mr. Gore not only understands the new economy and technology but wants to speed its advances by investing in training people and by making college tuition tax-deductible. Richard Perez-Pena (NYT) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); FILM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); US LABOR DAY (70%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); WEBCASTS (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); AL GORE (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



711 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
The Wooed at Last Size Up Their White House Suitors

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Here is how it happened for Joyce Doty: She started the summer already sold on Gov. George W. Bush. Then the conventions rolled around. Suddenly, Vice President Al Gore was looking handsome, sounding smart and intriguing her with the idea that "maybe he wasn't too corrupted by Clinton after all."
Mr. Bush's convention performance, and subsequent stump speeches, have given her pause. 
 "I started deciding that he doesn't have the charisma," said Mrs. Doty, who is in her 50's. "He didn't do a good job of bringing the issues to the front. I would say he is in danger of losing my vote, if not overwhelmingly so."
Dozens of people interviewed in six neighborhoods here -- ranging from the exclusive suburb of Fox Chapel to the quiet working-class corner of Carnegie to the largely Jewish Squirrel Hill -- said they, too, had been experiencing epiphanic moments about their presidential candidates in recent days, often in ways that have caused them to rethink the way they intend to vote.
For some people, the shifts have sprung from large single events -- a convention speech, a tax proposal, a choice of running mate. But for many others, their change in thinking has emerged from the smallest but most resonant of details, like a well-placed bottle of wine in a televised home video of Mr. Gore with his family that made Josh Kamody suddenly decide that Mr. Gore was "fun, someone I felt I would like as my dad."
Or the discovery that Mr. Bush's running mate did not favor the Head Start program, which sent Gregg Rosen's vote packing.
Rebecca Hepka, 23, was more or less indifferent to the race until she heard one of Mr. Gore's people use the term "living wage," which sent her into paroxysms of rage and made her decide to vote for Mr. Bush. "I don't like that term, no way," said Ms. Hepka, who sells medical insurance. "I don't want to give away all my taxes to have other people set up for life."
Interest in the campaign appears to have heated up here considerably since the political conventions, and knowledge of the issues as well as opinions about the candidates are suddenly in abundance. Many people interviewed agreed that the candidates, who not long ago were largely unknown and almost cartoon-like to them, have revealed far more about themselves in recent days. In most cases, these shifts have favored Mr. Gore, whose legendary stiffness has been softened in many voters' eyes by a sheen of sincerity and a distancing in his relationship with Bill Clinton. Recent national polls place the candidates in a dead heat, in part resulting from a postconvention bounce that pulled Mr. Gore closer to, and in some cases beyond, his rival.
Here, Mr. Gore was gaining some favor with people who said they had not planned to vote at all, like Linda Kelso, a store clerk who said that a recent visit to Pittsburgh by Mr. Gore's daughter softened her. "It seemed sincere, like they were really for the people," Ms. Kelso said.
In some cases, both men have benefited from exposure.
"I was negative on both earlier this summer," said Ann Hazlett, 71, a retired social worker who lives in Fox Chapel. "I was negative on Bush the person and Gore the party. But I liked Bush better later in the summer when he began to be more substantial and not such a smarty. And while I didn't think Gore's speech was outstanding, I felt there was sincerity there and I thought he did a good job of distancing himself from Clinton, who I no longer think will be telling him what to do. Really, I've warmed on them both."
Of course, 50 people do not represent America; they do not even represent Pittsburgh. But what was striking was the vast majority who insisted that they rarely voted strictly along party lines, and who claimed to be swayed so strongly in recent days. Many said they were early supporters of John McCain or Bill Bradley, and have started to weigh the relative merits of what they are left with.
"I am party-indifferent," said Mr. Rosen, 47, a lawyer. "My feelings started to evolve when Bush called the Greek people Grecians, and my opinion of Gore had been neutral. I would say now it is neutral to positive, largely because Bush doesn't have any policy positions. He speaks in conceptual terms."
Although fewer in number, some people interviewed said that recent days had brought them to Mr. Bush. "I was for Bush and now I am more so," said Heather Hurley, who works with Ms. Hepka selling insurance downtown. "I thought Gore looked better than ever but I don't care, because Bush's tax plan is more fair. And I like what he said last week about a strong military."
Pittsburgh has voted largely Democratic in recent decades, though its suburbs are sprinkled with Republican strongholds and it has a history of some political insurgency. The city and its suburbs are split between the 14th and 18th Congressional Districts, where Mr. Clinton took well over 50 percent of the vote in both 1992 and 1996.
Since the decline of the steel industry, the city has struggled, with some notable success, to establish a more varied economic base. The city's downtown -- heavy on old-fashioned stores like Candy Rama, where clerks wear pink smocks and much of the merchandise is under a dollar -- has undergone its share of revitalization plans, and the latest one in the offing calls for gutting most of the historic storefronts.
Not exactly known for things like international culture or cuisine (when asked for a hamburger, medium, one waitress replied, "They only come in one size, Hon"), the city has still doggedly pursued economic improvement and diversity and tried hard to retain its population, especially young people, who have tended to flee in recent decades. A recent building spree includes ballparks and a convention center.
Melissa Kelley, 41, and her husband, Carl Brotsker, 50, represent emerging prosperity. The two leaned toward Mr. Bradley in the primaries, and have spent the summer looking for cues from speeches, the stock market and those who watch it, and the convention on how to proceed.
Their paths have diverged at points. "I was going to announce to Melissa that by pain of death I would be voting for Bush," said Mr. Brotsker, who lives on the city's North Side. His reason was fairly simple. "As my economic situation has improved, I've been more intrigued by the Republican economic platform."
But then he started hearing whispers among those who handle his investments and market prognosticators that swayed him. With some embarrassment, he confessed that a comment of support for Mr. Gore voiced by the money manager Jim Cramer in an online chat swayed him greatly. "The markets have seemed to indicate that the Bush tax cut might be inflationary," he said.
Ms. Kelley has had her own epiphanies. "What I knew of Gore did not impress me initially," said Ms. Kelley, a lawyer. "But he has been better at articulating his policies. It has been a long time since I have heard a candidate say women will retain choice regarding abortion, and that was impressive."
And then there is Joseph I. Lieberman. "Making a choice can be a defining thing, an active thing," Ms. Kelley said. "Gore's choice of Lieberman gave me an indication of other types of actions he might take. So I remain cynical, but I am happier than I had been."
In fact, several people indicated that the candidate's choice of running mate was hugely influential. "I didn't like either of them until Gore chose Lieberman," said Carmen Hatcher, a systems technician. "I don't believe Gore is a strong leader, but Lieberman will guide him," Ms. Hatcher said.
Ms. Hazlett said: "I don't like Dick Cheney, which I hate to think would influence me so much. And I can't say that Lieberman would make me vote for Gore, but I have to tell you I am surprised by how many of my friends talk about that."
Some voters have stuck hard to one issue. "I believe that Gore has a better understanding about education and has shown that in recent speeches," said John Bornyas, an education administrator. "And I have gotten negative on Bush in the week since he could not get his numbers straight. But I need to see them both in the debates. And the truth is, there is always the Green Party."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Kelso, a store clerk in Pittsburgh, says that until Vice President Al Gore's daughter visited the city, she had not planned to vote.; John Bornyas says he believes that Al Gore has a better understanding of education issues, but he would like to see the candidates in a debate.; Joyce Doty of Fox Chapel, Pa., is wavering on her once strong support of Gov. George W. Bush because, she says, he lacks charisma. (Photographs by Matt Freed for The New York Times)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FOX CHAPEL TRAVEL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); LIVING WAGE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TAX LAW (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CHENEY, DICK; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); STEINHAUER, JENNIFER GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



712 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE EDUCATION POLICIES;
Bush and Gore Stake Claims To Federal Role in Education

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
His campaign has kept careful count. When Gov. George W. Bush goes to Springfield High School in Holland, Ohio, outside Toledo on Thursday, he will be making his 100th visit to a school since he began running for president 14 months ago.
It is predictable what he will say, because he says it at almost every stop almost every day, rain or shine, no matter the audience, even when he has only 5 or 10 minutes to speak. 
 It goes like this: "This nation of ours must challenge what I like to call the soft bigotry of low expectations. Every child can learn. It starts with raising people's sights and raising expectations and refusing to yield, refusing to accept a curriculum that won't work."
Five years after the Republican Congress shut down the government in part because of the money President Clinton wanted to spend on education, four years after Bob Dole embraced a Republican platform that advocated abolishing the Department of Education, Mr. Bush has made an expanded federal role in education a central campaign issue.
Vice President Al Gore, for his part, has responded to the challenge on an issue that has been especially strong for Democrats ever since President Lyndon B. Johnson got the first law on federal aid to public schools enacted 35 years ago over the opposition of most Republicans.
"I think it's time to make revolutionary improvements in our public schools the No. 1 priority in the nation," Mr. Gore declared in a speech last week in Chicago to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners.
While both candidates are emphasizing education, their approaches are quite different.
Mr. Bush focuses on making schools more accountable for their students' performance, and talks about the importance of local control. The modest additional spending he proposes would go primarily toward a program to help disadvantaged children learn to read.
Mr. Gore, by contrast, would increase federal spending on education by 50 percent, $115 billion over the next decade. He would have the federal government contribute money to raise teachers' salaries -- an area Washington has always shunned -- and large amounts would be spent on preschool programs and school construction.
Each candidate has abandoned party dogma to move to the center.
Before the Republican convention last month, Mr. Bush intervened with the party's platform committee to knock out language that called for closing the Department of Education. Instead, Mr. Bush would expand the department's authority by giving it jurisdiction over Head Start, the preschool program for poor children that is now in the Department of Health and Human Services.
Mr. Bush has also expressed a more limited advocacy of vouchers than the conservatives of his party have. Many Republicans in Congress would like to give all parents vouchers to help pay their children's tuition at private schools. Mr. Bush would allow vouchers only if a school failed for three years to make the improvements needed to meet state standards, after repeated warnings.
"Under Bush, education has come of age for Republicans," said Denis Doyle, a political scientist and a founder of Schoolnet.com, a company that provides Internet services for school districts. "On education, Mr. Bush looks more like Mr. Gore than he looks like Mr. Dole."
Mr. Gore emphasizes stiffer standards for teachers, a position not likely to be met enthusiastically by the teachers' unions, which are important Democratic constituents. More than 300 delegates at the Democratic convention were members of the National Education Association or the American Federation of Teachers.
Mr. Gore would require all new teachers to pass qualification tests. He would ensure that all secondary school teachers have college majors or minors in the subjects they teach and that all primary school teachers are trained in teaching reading. Teachers would have to pass rigorous evaluations to keep their licenses. And communities would be encouraged to develop procedures for discharging poor teachers and assigning teachers to particular schools based on expertise rather than just seniority.
Mary Elizabeth Teasley, director of government relations for the National Education Association, said her union was "in perfect alignment with the vice president."
But her union's members might not feel that way. For example, when Mr. Gore spoke last spring to the Michigan Education Association, he was vigorously applauded when he described his plans for recruiting teachers and increasing salaries. But his remarks about making teachers more accountable were met with icy silence.
Polls show that Mr. Bush's strategy has helped close a gap between Republicans and Democrats on education. In 1988, when Mr. Bush's father was running for president, 55 percent of those questioned in a New York Times/CBS News poll said Democrats were more likely to improve education; 23 percent said Republicans were. In answer to the same question last month, the Democrats' lead narrowed, with 45 percent of respondents favoring Democrats' chances of improving education and 33 percent the Republicans'.
Both candidates offer a ream of specific policy proposals. Mr. Bush would spend $1 billion a year for five years to train teachers to diagnose and correct reading problems. Just last week, he offered modest proposals to build and repair schools on and near military bases and to give grants to historically black and Hispanic colleges.
He would penalize states with a loss of 5 percent of their federal aid if they did not give standardized reading and math tests to students in the third through the eighth grades and publish the results.
Mr. Gore would spend $50 billion over 10 years to provide public preschools for all 4-year-olds and many 3-year-olds. He would offer interest-free bonds for school construction and modernization, provide money for raising teacher pay, award signing bonuses to recruits and give tax credits to offset the cost of college for students from families with incomes below about $100,000 a year.
Oddly, given Mr. Gore's assertions in recent weeks about the specificity of his policy proposals, his campaign was unable this week to provide a breakdown of exactly how the $115 billion extra he intends to spend on education over the next 10 years would be allocated.
In any event, the precise policy proposals of the candidates are less important than the principles they espouse. That is because Congress develops education programs and is likely to devote approximately the same amount of resources to education regardless of who is president.
But Washington's influence on public education could depend on who is elected. Mr. Gore would have the government much more involved in local education matters. Mr. Bush would mostly keep his hands off except for holding schools responsible for the progress of their students.
The emphasis on education in this year's campaign, far greater than in any recent presidential race, is odd for two reasons.
First, the federal government is a relatively minor player in education compared with the state and local governments. The $23.5 billion Washington is spending this year on public schools is only 7 percent of the schools' $340 billion in total spending.
Second, there is no evidence that the public is paying significantly more attention to education this year than in the past. Polls have shown all year that 5 percent to 10 percent of the voters say education is the most important problem facing the government. About the same percentage of voters rank health care, Social Security, Medicare or taxes first.
Politicians often think of education as a women's issue, and both candidates are making special appeals to women. But Frank Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, said surveys showed that women were no more concerned in a political sense about education than men were.
"Education is one of those issues that fills a vacuum," Mr. Newport said, something for the voters and the candidates to talk about in a year when no overriding issue like the economy or international tensions is dominating the debate.
The issue is also appealing to the candidates because a politician's position on education, unlike, say, on health care or taxes or trade policy, is unlikely to generate strong opposition from commercial interests with deep pockets.
Mainly what seems to have happened this year is that Mr. Bush felt comfortable with education as an issue, having dealt extensively and, by most accounts, successfully with the matter as governor of Texas, and he began promoting his positions early in the campaign.
Mr. Gore has long talked about improving education. But members of his staff acknowledged that the unusual emphasis Mr. Bush placed on the issue was probably what led the vice president to proclaim that it was now the nation's top priority.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush at an education forum yesterday in Portland, Me. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "Debating Education"
Long a strong issue for Democrats, education is also a central focus of the Bush campaign.
 
Proposals
SPENDING
 
GEORGE W. BUSH -- $13.5 billion over 5 years, $5 billion of which would be used to help disadvantaged pupils in kindergarten through the second grade learn to read.
 
AL GORE -- $115 billion over 10 years, $50 billion of which would be used to make preschool available to all 4-year-olds and many 3-year-olds by 2004.
 
TESTING
 
GEORGE W. BUSH -- States would lose federal aid if they did not give standardized tests in reading and math to all students in grades three through eight and publish the results.
 
AL GORE -- Schools would be encouraged to give voluntary national reading and math tests to fourth and eighth graders.
 
TEACHERS
 
GEORGE W. BUSH -- States would set their own requirements for certifying teacher qualifications.
 
AL GORE -- Communities could receive federal funds to give teachers raises and hiring bonuses of up to $10,000.
 
POOR SCHOOLS AND VOUCHERS
 
GEORGE W. BUSH -- Poor schools would be given three years to meet standards. If they did not do so, parents would be given $1,500-a-year vouchers for private schools.
 
AL GORE -- Schools failing to meet certain standards would be closed and reopened under new leadership. No federal money could be used in private schools.
 
What the Poll Shows
Which party is more likely to improve education?
 
REPUBLICANS -- 33%
DEMOCRATS -- 45%
 
From a New York Times/CBS News poll of 743 registered voters, conducted July 20-23. Margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (59%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (73%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (67%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (67%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (59%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (73%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; VOUCHERS; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL); READING AND WRITING SKILLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (66%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (96%); AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



713 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Labor Peace at Schools

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Thanks to unprecedented state education aid packages and modest municipal property tax increases, labor peace between school districts and teachers' union locals is at a nine-year high, the New York State United Teachers group said yesterday.
New York State United Teachers said members of 122 of its teacher locals will begin the 2000-01 school year without contracts, the lowest number in at least nine years. 
 The good economic times have helped foster cooperation between union locals and school boards, said Thomas Hobart, president of New York State United Teachers, a union federation.
"When the state provides a larger share of public education costs, it makes it easier for school districts to hold property taxes in check and still offer teachers and other school employees fair contracts and competitive wage increases," said Mr. Hobart, whose federation represents 440,000 employees and includes the United Federation of Teachers in New York.
State aid to education for the current fiscal year will be about $13 billion, a record.
David Ernst, a spokesman for the New York School Boards Association, said his group agreed that the good economy and the size of recent state aid increases for education had made for general peace in teacher-school board relations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: HOBART, AUSTRALIA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (94%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (94%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (94%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (94%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); HOBART, AUSTRALIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LABOR SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); 

PERSON: THOMAS HOBART (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000



714 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1923 words

HEADLINE: TURF;
Be-Bop-a-Lula, Wildwood's My Baby

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

DATELINE: WILDWOOD, N.J.

 BODY:
EVEN the name is perfect right out of the 50's and 60's, when teenagers were watching "The Wild One" and "How to Stuff a Wild Bikini" at the drive-in, humming doo-wop ballads and spending their summer vacations at this Jersey Shore town, where practically every motel has a plastic palm tree overhanging its car court and every third motel owner is a character deserving of his own sitcom.
In Wildwood's heyday, its boardwalk amusement park buzzed. Its neon streets thronged with tourists. Its 301 motels, with names like the Caribbean, the Pink Champagne, Ebb Tide and Costa del Sole, never brought in their No Vacancy signs during the summer season. Wildwood was hot then, and neighboring Cape May, with its dowdy Victorian summer houses, was dead. 
 But the good times rolled by, and the turquoise and pink metal motel doors, opening to concrete rooms overlooking parking lots, lost their appeal. Families stayed away, drug dealers roamed the boardwalk, absentee landlords neglected their properties and the architecture began to look dated. As older motel owners died or moved to Florida, the paint began to flake and the neon to flicker.
"I had an aunt who loved to go down to the beach and watch the motels put on their neon lights," said Anne Hufnal, 67, who with her husband, Albert, 69, owns a red brick bungalow on a side street here. "Then they kind of faded -- the lights went out."
But the neon is coming back, and with it ambitious plans for Wildwood and its sister towns, Wildwood Crest, West Wildwood and North Wildwood, all suspended in time on a barrier island about three hours by car from Times Square. In the Wildwoods, what was once dismissed as working class is now lauded as "midcentury modern."
In 1999, nearly three decades after Robert Venturi, Denise Scott Brown and Steven Izenour wrote their homage to the 1950's, "Learning From Las Vegas," Mr. Izenour joined a group of architects and design students as they unveiled a jazzy blueprint for a town revival here, complete with offbeat motel makeovers and campy new buildings. They called it "Learning From the Wildwoods." Now that it has had time to sink in, the unofficial doo-wop preservation master plan is prompting a new respect among townspeople for "trophy" motels like the Kelly green and daffodil-yellow Caribbean and bringing momentum to redesign dozens of other vintage motels and small businesses.
Doo-wop preservation, as defined here, aims to keep the pizazz of the 50's and 60's without freeze-drying it.
Thomas Hine, an architecture critic formerly with The Philadelphia Inquirer and the author of "Populuxe," a look at popular culture from 1954 to 1964, said that the Wildwoods epitomized the cheap construction and throwaway ethic of that time. "You knew something better was going to come along," he explained. "The belief in progress was so strong you didn't have to save anything."
Now, he and others are turning Wildwood into Exhibit A in a national debate over the value of 50's and 60's architecture. "For most preservationists, the period after World War II is a dead spot," said William C. Bolger of the National Park Service, which will hold a conference Oct. 11 to 13 in Philadelphia on "Preserving the Recent Past." "As the interest in fast food joints and the doo-wop stuff grows, I hear colleagues say they're getting out, that it's time to retire. But for people like me it gets the blood moving again."
Until recently, even the people who lived and worked here thought preservation was something suitable only for precious 18th-century villages and turn-of-the century mansions. "Just a few years ago, when they saw the success of Cape May, they were saying: 'Hey, we have a few 19th-century buildings. Why don't we do our town over as a Victorian resort?' " Mr. Hine said.
Mayor Duane Sloan of Wildwood recalls the debate: "We came to the realization that we have our own unique character. We're not Cape May. We're not Ocean City. We're very Americana. We're not upper crust, and we don't want to be."
Many of those who vacation here are middle-class working people, said the mayor, 34, who was born and raised here. "Wildwood is a fun kind of place," he said. "We don't have any pretensions whatsoever."
Wildwood is a time capsule just cracked open. The motels are still motels, Mr. Hine explained, and they are still owned by individuals.
"Wildwood is one of the last places where the chain motels haven't taken over, one of the last Mom and Pop places," said Richard Stokes, a Philadelphia architect involved in Wildwood's renewal. "That's why it will never turn into a kind of theme park. We're hoping it will be recreated the same way it was created, by the moms and pops -- hopefully keeping its quirkiness."
Mr. Stokes is helping Jack Morey, whose family owns four of Wildwood's five giant amusement piers, to "reinvent" the Starlux, a motel Mr. Morey bought recently. A down-at-the-heels brick box a few blocks from the ocean, the Starlux just got a wavy metal fence with Swiss cheese cutouts and a round glass tower for the reception desk. The small rooms have been redone with blond wood furniture and Lava lamps. Already, the motel is booked most weekends despite the $139 rate, almost twice what a night costs at the Bel-Air, an unrenovated gem nearer the water.
Mr. Morey's family settled in Wildwood in the 1920's. In 1986, the Moreys built Seapointe Village, a 500-unit condominium at the south end of the beach. Jack Morey is also president of the Doo-Wop Preservation League, founded by Wildwood devotees in 1997. His family also financed a substantial chunk of the 104-page, visually frenetic master plan, written with help from design students at Yale, the University of Pennsylvania and Kent State.
Mr. Morey says he likes the approach of architects like Mr. Izenour, who want to capture Wildwood's exuberant spirit. "Guys like Steve, the only thing he wants to preserve is the spirit of zaniness," Mr. Morey said.
What counts as zany? One student proposed beachfront changing rooms in the form of pastel soft ice cream cones with cherries on top. Another suggested marking intersections with "giant inflatable kitsch beach creatures." Another student called for an allee of plastic palms, which Mr. Izenour hailed as "very simple but immensely powerful," and "Wildwood's equivalent of the great Hypostyle Hall at Karnak."
Despite its loud colors and Disneyesque touches, the plan has been well received, even among the most conservative motel owners, because the town is desperate for a fresh approach. Though a quarter of a million visitors descend on the Wildwoods every year, they come mainly in July and August -- and this July was a bad one, Mayor Sloan said. A 10-month-a-year infusion like the one in Cape May, a 10-minute drive away, is viewed as the only sure way to revive vacant storefronts and raise property values, which lag far behind those in nearby Avalon and Stone Harbor, rival beach communities where houses routinely sell for $400,000. (Wildwood's average is closer to $165,000.) While a few motel owners view doo-wop preservation as a gimmick, even they say that Wildwood is, in the end, different from a lot of other beach resorts.
Because Wildwood has not changed -- really not changed. Incorporated in 1895, the town started skidding so quickly at the start of the 1970's that it remains virtually untouched. The motels have much the same look they did in the 1950's, 60's and 70's. You almost expect to see Sandra Dee, the star of "Gidget," in a halter top, short shorts and strap sandals driving down Ocean Avenue and waving to her fans from a canary yellow '57 Chevy convertible.
In fact, some say the revival began with old cars: each spring and autumn for eight years, the New Jersey Hot Rod Association has sponsored a car show along the two-and-half-mile boardwalk, creating a parade of pink and purple hot rods, muscle cars and Beach Boys convertibles.
But to Wildwood's principal boosters, vintage wheels can carry the town only so far. "The older folks tend to be more nostalgia based," Mr. Morey said. "But if we focus on the old music and the old cars, you'll lose the younger people."
Wildwood really caught on as a place to study in 1995, when Daniel Vieyra, an architecture professor at Kent State, picked it as the location for a convention of the Society for Commercial Archaeology, a group devoted to the study of America's commercial roadside architecture.
"It was simply the best collection of post-World War II resort architecture in the country," Mr. Vieyra said. "It's all there: the critical mass, not one or two icons made cute."
Wildwood is also the only such collection in the country. (A boardwalk fire on Tuesday, which destroyed a two-story building, did not damage any doo-wop icons.) While one might have expected whole enclaves of 50's buildings in California, "the West Coast is very fragmented and, anyway, has been gentrified beyond recognition," he said.
Mr. Vieyra asked Mr. Izenour to speak at the 1995 convention. Captivated, Mr. Izenour brought students from his classes at Yale and later from Penn. In July, Mr. Vieyra asked eight Kent State students to draft projects and work with motel owners to preserve the best of what they had while jazzing up some of the more mundane properties.
The drive to keep the exuberance alive explains why no one is yet proposing plans for a historic district. "There's a certain spontaneity here," Mr. Vieyra said. "The question is whether you can use traditional preservation regulation without killing it, without freezing the place in time. Then you are a historian, not a designer, and that's an easy trap."
While most of Mr. Vieyra's students have been working on specific plans with motel and shop owners, the only doo-wop project that has been completed is Maureen's, a restaurant designed in the summer of 1999 by Michael Hill, a Kent State student, who took an existing brick box and decorated it with white mesh screen, brightly colored circles and martini glasses. Scheduled for construction in 2001 are a Wawa convenience store and a McDonald's.
Still on the drawing boards are sketches of a 50's housewife who would hail tourists from the blue-and-white checked roof of an early 60's motel called the Cara Mara, and a replacement facade for a local Christmas shop, redoing it as a huge green package wrapped in bright red ribbon and layered with boomerang-shaped ornaments.
"Wildwood is such a small town, the new design effort has so overwhelmed us," Mayor Sloan said of the academic attention focused on the town all summer. "Wildwood was without direction for a long time, and this movement is the type of thing that gives a town direction."
Although Wildwood has been selected by the state for a new $70 million convention center, the mayor, Mr. Morey and others lament that they had no influence on the design: despite their lobbying, it is rising as a plain box, undoo-wopped. Both men are hoping to secure a $2.1 million federal grant to fix up the town's main shopping street, which is paved with bricks and lined with empty stores. "There's no other way to put it," the mayor said. "The downtown area has failed."
Asked how far the town has really come from its nadir in the mid-90's, Mr. Morey said, "Maybe 10 percent." He paused. "Maybe 20 percent. So many people left Wildwood. The young people moved away. But we want them back. Maybe someday they'll say, 'I miss Wildwood,' and then they'll come back." He paused again. "Maybe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs by Steven Izenour)(pg. F1); BEHIND THE BOARDWALK -- When hard times hit in the 70's, Wildwood began to fray in places, including the back of the Ocean Avenue amusement zone. Town boosters say that even so, a spunky cheer lies beneath the surface, ready to fuel a comeback. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(Steven Izenour); DO-WOP'S IN -- The Starlux face-lift, top, with wavy metal fence and glass tower. In the works is a Wawa store. ('Vette not included.)(Cybermill Studio/Lynch Martinez Architects)(Richard Stokes Architect); PALM SPRINGS EAST -- Jack Morey, left, is giving his faded Starlux motel a 50's-contemporary fusion look. Anne and Albert Hufnal, above, are weekenders who recently decided to stay year round. (Above and left, Laura Pedrick for the New York Times); SURF'S UP -- Wildwood has a soft spot for beach blankets, muscle cars and vintage motels. In hopes of luring tourists and revving up the local economy, the town is spiffing up its 50's look. (Steven Izenour)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILDWOOD (NJ); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); ETHICS (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



715 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 11; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Cyberhomes for Strangers in Strange Lands

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE KENNEALLY 

 BODY:
In the 1800's, when the Irish left for America, relatives bid them goodbye with a wake, a celebration normally held for the dead.
The likelihood that the emigrants would come back was thought to be about the same as their chance of returning from the dead; in those days there were no quick trips back for Christmas, no phone cards and no digital video of the grandchildren. 
 Such journeys now take hours instead of weeks, and telecommunications have reduced the distance between home and away. Most recently, the Internet has bridged the gap, so that expatriates can be more connected to home than ever before. Whether the new American residents are from Australia, France, India or almost anywhere else in the world, there is a Web site that ties them to families and alleviates the strange grief of unavailable junk food. (What? No Tim Tams?)
Kate Juliff of Australia, an information technology manager who has lived in New York for seven years, started Australians Abroad (www.australiansabroad.com) in 1996 with Richard Rankin, to "raise issues of relevance to expatriates, as well as provide stories of interest, resources and a cybermeeting place for Australians living overseas." The site has 600 regular users with 1,000 drop-ins a day from 50 countries.
Australians Abroad features a message board, a chat room, a resources list with links to travel, immigration and international shipping sites, as well as columns written by Australians, including, "Letter from New York" and "Musings from Melbourne." The anecdotal columns, in which Australian slang is common, address issues facing many expatriates -- managing finances in Australia from overseas, obtaining credit in a foreign country, finding insurance.
In one "Letter from New York," Ms. Juliff wrote about the difficult experience of a parent's illness and eventual death while she was living overseas. Australians Abroad also has a search engine and database for Australian-related sites.
Two sites, www.farsinet.com and www.iaol.com, also try to provide a cyberhome-away-from-home. FarsiNet, for the international Iranian and Persian community, gives weather forecasts for 50 cities in Iran, relevant news articles from The Associated Press and articles and resources on Iranian and Persian business, poetry, art, food, history and events (mostly in the United States). It has a chat forum for "Foreign husbands of Iranian women," and an online translator converts any English word into Farsi script.
The Indians Abroad Online offers users a residential or business dial-up service, free e-mail messaging, home pages, horoscopes, greeting cards ("Happy Love at First Sight Day"), audio music files, a chat room and encyclopedic information on Indian dining, fashion, immigration, science and technology, and "Bollywood" (the Indian film industry). The Matrimonials section allows users to find a mate by specifying traits like age, immigration status, religion or caste.
Some sites bring expatriates together based on country of residence rather than country of origin.
Al Nevarez was working in Japan, first for the Ford Motor Company and then Visteon Corporation, when he started jotting down notes about his favorite restaurants in his Palm Pilot. As Mr. Nevarez watched other Americans doing the same, he decided to develop a P.D.A. and Web tool to bring "peace of mind to expatriates in an environment where there is little English."
Now, Mr. Nevarez said, 300 users download the site (www.japaninyourpalm.com) to their P.D.A.'s everyday, and in July, there were 130,000 hits. He also offers an i-mode mobile Internet cell version of the site.
JapanInYourPalm.com features restaurant reviews and resources organized into topics like sports, nightlife, health, family and church, as well as train schedules and restaurant menus in English.
"Living overseas brings a unique appreciation for the power of the Internet," said Mr. Nevarez, who returned to the United States in July but, with contributions from friends still in Japan, updates the site daily.
Other location specific sites include www.expatsingapore.com, which claims 20,000 users a month and more than one million users overall, and , a site for foreigners (www.expatvillage.com) in Buenos Aires that went online in mid-April. The sites carry weather information, features on culture, travel, dining, immigration and advertisements. Advertisements in Expatvillage.com offer everything from "Focused Psychotherapy in Spanish, English or French" to "European home appliances repair."
Another site (www .expataccess.com) is based on both nationality and location with a focus on people who are moving abroad. Having a baby in France, Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands or Britain is just one of the many detailed topics. The site also has sections for American or British residents who are moving to continental Europe, offering tips like how to import a car. Similar in scope is www .peoplegoingglobal .com, which covers every continent and is dense with country-specific governmental and economic information and related links.
Betsy Burlingame, who once lived in Germany, started www.expatexchange.com as a master's thesis project at New York University. The site, which went online in 1997, has 4 employees and more than 100 volunteers. It joins with companies in a "General Store" to tailor products and services for members, like Medibroker International, a medical and health insurance broker that is run by expatriates.
Expat Exchange has information for nonmembers and private forums for members (registration is free). The forums are divided into categories including "women's," "men's," "spouse's" and "GenXpat" (young professionals), as well as jobs, books and travel. The site has 8,000 members from more than 60 nations and 18,000 monthly visitors, and it seeks to create a community for expatriates in all countries. Country specific forums feature stories like the eight-part diary of Lexie, an American cat, and her journey through the rigorous Australian quarantine process.
The mission of Expat Expert, said Robin Pascoe, a Canadian whose husband was a diplomat in the Canadian Foreign service for 15 years, is to "inform, advise, and offer online friendship to relocating expatriate spouses and families."
Ms. Pascoe said she started the site (www.expatexpert.com) when she realized, "how desperate expats are for online help with the emotional side of living abroad, which for the spouse can include giving up a career, major blows to self-esteem (you become Mrs. Husband's job) and general wear and tear on the mind and body from looking after everyone else."
The features on Expat Expert offer a perspective on recurrent issues, like culture shock, health emergencies and repatriation.
The curious or the lonely expatriate can also find advice and resources at sites attached to publications, like The Weekly Telegraph (www.globalnetwork.co.uk) and The International Herald Tribune (www .iht.com), or organizations like the Canadian Foreign Service Community Association (www.fsca-acse.org) or Outpost (www .outpostexpat.nl), sponsored by Shell International.
The number of expatriate sites is growing, and even if they do not get wandering souls closer to home, they give users a chance to bond with people engaged with similar issues.
At the very least, surfing these Web sites helps kill time while waiting for a life-saving shipment of Reeses Peanut Butter Cups (or Twisties or Barry's Tea or Bovril).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kate Juliff, who has lived in New York for seven years, started Australians Abroad, a Web site that is intended to be "a cybermeeting place" for her fellow expatriates. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (71%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHAT ROOMS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); REFUGEES (73%); FAMILY (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); WEATHER (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (65%); POETRY (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); HOROSCOPES (50%); 

PERSON: KENNEALLY, CHRISTINE AL NEVAREZ (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



716 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO SLIPS. The euro held near a record low on speculation the European Central Bank would raise interest rates as much as a half-point today. In New York, the euro settled at 89.24 cents, down from 89.25 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since March 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



717 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Despite years of prosperity, times are tougher for those in the middle and below.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick; This column appears here every Thursday. Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and adjunct professor of social sciences at Cooper Union. Four economic analysts -- Mr. Madrick, Virginia Postrel, Alan B. Krueger and Hal R. Varian -- rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
MAKE no mistake about how good the last five years have been to Americans. The usually cautious economists at the Economic Policy Institute point out in their new edition of "The State of Working America" that wages went up strongly across the board since 1996, even for low-income workers. In the meantime, low levels of unemployment meant that many who dropped out of the labor force were back at work, and jobs, in general, were more stable. Small wonder that Americans are confident again.
But what is too often ignored is that this remarkable performance has not yet compensated for the persistent erosion of the income of male workers since the early 1970's. And this goes a long way toward explaining why Al Gore's message at the Democratic convention to help working families seems to have caught on. Women have had to fill the breach, with a far higher proportion of them now working. But although their wages have risen substantially on average, their pay remains roughly 20 percent below what men earn. 
 Few of the instant television analysts at the convention grasped the point. "Contentment" is the tenor of the times, one pundit asserted, asserting that Mr. Gore was misreading the electorate. The going line was this: Maybe we should worry about the poor and those without health insurance, but should we really be concerned with most of working America?
A few facts will help. The Census Bureau provides a useful measure of income by sex that includes not just wages and salaries for all workers, which are typically cited by analysts, but also sources of income like rent and interest as well as government transfers like Social Security benefits and unemployment insurance. The bureau also provides data by age group and for the typical, or median, worker -- the worker who earns more than half of all workers and less than the other half.
I have also had the data discounted for the latest estimates of inflation, which adjust incomes upward for improvements in the quality and variety of products. Thus the following conclusions are based on a quite generous estimate of income growth.
Despite significant gains recently, the median male worker has fared poorly since the 1970's. In fact, adjusted for inflation, the median worker in the 25-to-34 age group earned 13 percent less in 1998 (the latest data available) than did the median worker of the same age in 1973.
Median workers in the 35-to-44 age group earned about 9 percent less in 1998 than their counterparts 25 years earlier. And the 45-to-54 median-income group essentially stagnated since 1973, up only slightly. By comparison, in the post-World War II period, median incomes for these age groups rose 50 to 100 percent over 25 years.
But even if overall incomes fell compared with levels for equivalent workers in the past, how did men do as they grew more experienced at work and built up financial and real estate assets over time? The same data allows us to assess this, and the findings are sobering.
Beginning in the 1970's and persisting into the 1990's, the incomes of a majority of men under 35 rose about half as fast as they did in earlier decades and the incomes of a majority of men aged roughly 35 or older essentially stagnated or fell.
To take but one example, the median income of a male aged 35 to 44 in 1988 was $39,331. In 1998, after inflation, the equivalent man, now 10 years older, took in $300 less. To match the gains typically made in the 1950's and 1960's, the median income should have been approximately $51,000 by 1998.
Updating the data through 2000 would improve the performance of the last 25 years only slightly.
Some economists say such data does not tell the whole story. Incomes for the top 20 percent of men rose rapidly the last 25 years, and some assert that because income mobility is greater now, many in the lower 80 percent occasionally climb into the highest quintile. But claims of greater income mobility have been criticized by both conservative and liberal economists.
A more relevant criticism is that even if incomes stagnate, Americans can buy many more exciting new products at low and falling prices. Even the poor own VCR's, microwave ovens and Sony Walkmans. But the costs of products and services that some may view as even more critical to modern life than a VCR -- housing, education, medical care and public transit -- have all risen much faster than incomes since the early 1970's.
It is an extraordinary social achievement that so many women now have the opportunity to work. But the inescapable fact is that if women did not work, most family incomes would not have risen at all in the 1980's and 1990's. The median annual income of a two-worker family is now about $60,000. The median family income of a one-worker family is about $32,000.
The resulting pressures are obvious. A parent now stays at home full-time in fewer than one of four families, compared with two of three in the 1950's. In half of all families, both parents work, compared with one of five in the 1950's. Twenty-five percent of all families are headed by a single parent, typically a mother.
This is a new reality in America. Despite five years of prosperity, the poor are still not doing well, and working families in the broad middle are in need of relief -- both from long work hours and from the pressures of the rising cost of education, health care and other requirements for a middle-class life. And the cost of professional child care has risen much faster than have incomes.
Surveys by two sociologists, Jerry Jacobs of the University of Pennsylvania and Kathleen Gerson of New York University, among others, show that those who work especially long hours want to work less. And those who work short hours, usually earning too little, want to work more.
For a long time, both political parties put the best face on these grinding facts. Mr. Gore simply let the cat out of the bag. My guess is that George W. Bush is beginning to get the message, even if the instant media pundits are not.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Democratic convention, Vice President Gore tried to spread the message that working families need help. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MEN; WOMEN; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEN (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); CENSUS (72%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



718 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: The Two Koreas Continue to Report Progress in New Talks

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 30

 BODY:
South and North Korea agreed in principle today to allow more reunions of long-separated families and to take other steps toward ending decades of animosity, news reports said.
In a new round of cabinet-level talks that opened in Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, the South made a series of proposals to ease tensions. The two sides are also still trying to narrow differences over a South Korean proposal to open a military hot line and begin a regular dialogue between military leaders, according to pool reports from South Korean news media. 
 But they agreed in principle to allow two or three more reunions this year of families separated by the Korean War in 1950-53. This month, South and North Korea each sent 100 people to the other's capital for four-day reunions with relatives, the first such meetings and a concrete sign that the two are moving toward reconciliation.
South and North Korea will also start talks on to guarantee investments and avoid double taxation, the pool reports said.
The reports said no formal agreements were likely to be signed until Thursday, when South Korean officials are expected to meet North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, and hold another session with their North Korean counterparts.
A 30-member South Korean delegation and 10 journalists flew to Pyongyang on Tuesday for the talks. Foreign reporters were not allowed to attend.
At a summit meeting in June, the leaders of the two nations agreed to work together for reconciliation and reunification.
"I would like to remind you that at the summit, the two top leaders agreed to arrange a channel of dialogue to prevent accidental armed clashes," the pool reports quoted South Korea's unification minister, Pak Chae Kyu, as saying.
Mr. Pak also proposed the formation of economic and other committees to discuss ways of implementing the summit agreement, the reports said.
The chief North Korean negotiator, Jon Kum Jin, did not respond directly to the proposals but said there was considerable common ground between the two sides, the reports said.
He complained, however, that a United States-South Korea military exercise under way in South Korea was hurting the atmosphere of dialogue, the reports said. The United States and South Korea began a largely computer-simulated joint military exercise on Aug. 21. North Korea has often suspended North-South dialogue in the past, citing American-South Korean military drills.
In an earlier round of talks in Seoul, the two nations reopened border liaison offices that had been closed four years ago because of political tensions and agreed to reconnect a cross-border railway that was cut just before the start of the Korean War.
At today's meetings, South Korea offered to break ground for the railway project jointly with North Korea around Sept. 15. The work requires clearing tens of thousands of mines inside the DMZ, the demilitarized zone that separates the two sides.
South Korea also raised the issue of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of South Koreans who it believes are living in North Korea against their will, the pool reports said. North Korea denies the allegations, calling them part of a smear campaign.
The Koreas were divided into the Communist North and the capitalist South in 1945. The Korean War ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH KOREA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH KOREA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); KOREAN WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); JOURNALISM (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); WRITERS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); MODELING & SIMULATION (50%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



719 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Economic Indicators Index Falls for Third Month

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators fell in July for a third consecutive month, a sign that higher interest rates may restrain growth in coming months, an industry report showed.
The index, compiled by the Conference Board, is intended to gauge economic performance over the next three to six months. It fell 0.1 percent in July, mostly reflecting a drop in factory orders and matching the declines in the previous two months. 
 The last time the index fell for three or more consecutive months was in the first half of 1995. Still, the economy accelerated in the second half of that year, growing at a 3.2 percent rate after a 1.1 percent pace in the first six months.
"With employment and income still rising, there will be growth, but not at the pace set earlier in the year," said Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board.
That should give comfort to central bankers. Federal Reserve policy makers have raised interest rates six times since June 1999 to keep inflation in check.
The economy grew at a 5.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, faster than the 4.8 percent of the first. Still, much of the increase was from rising inventories. Consumer spending, accounting for two-thirds of output, grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace in three years.
The Conference Board uses previously reported economic statistics to compile its index of leading indicators. Among the 10 components in the New York group's index, five had a negative effect in July and five were positive contributors.
In addition to a decline in orders placed with factories for consumer goods and business equipment, a drop in building permits and improved delivery times -- resulting from slower demand -- pushed the index down. The spread between the interest rate on overnight loans between banks and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note also had a negative effect. Building permits, a gauge of future construction, fell 2 percent, to a 1.497-million-unit annual rate in July, the slowest pace since 1.456 million in December 1997.
Indicators making a positive contribution to the index included an increase in the nation's money supply, higher consumer expectations, fewer claims for state unemployment benefits, rising stock prices and an increase in the factory workweek.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators"
Index of 10 indicators designed to lead or predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100.
 
Change From Previous Month
July: -0.1%
June: -0.1%
May: -0.1%
Graph tracks changes from February of 1999 through July 2000
(Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: YORK GROUP LTD (54%); YORK GROUP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



720 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: AMERICAN'S PLEA SCHEDULED -- A day after Edmond Pope's wife and his congressman made a public appeal for better medical treatment for the former naval intelligence officer awaiting trial in Moscow on espionage charges, a Moscow court scheduled a hearing to reconsider his plea for conditional release. The Moscow City Court announced it will hear an appeal Sept. 11 from Mr. Pope's lawyer, Pavel Astakhov, whose earlier filings were rejected. Patrick E. Tyler (NYT) 

CROATIA: TRIBUNAL WITNESS SLAIN -- A Croatian witness in war crimes trials who testified nearly two years ago was slain in a bomb blast near his home in Zagreb in what was seen as a warning to others who might testify to the International Criminal Tribunal on the Former Yugoslavia about possible Croatian war crimes in Bosnia. Tribunal officials said Milan Levar was given government protection in April 1998, and that they had had no contact with him since. Steven Erlanger (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: HUME GIVES UP A SEAT -- John Hume, the leader of the moderate Catholic Social Democratic and Labor Party and a principal architect of the Ulster peace pact, said he was giving up his seat in the new Northern Ireland Assembly, cutting his workload for health reasons. Mr. Hume, 63, will keep his party post and his seats in the British Parliament and the European Parliament. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: TRIMBLE SPEAKS OUT -- The British province's most powerful Protestant politician, the Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, condemned warring Protestant paramilitary groups whose turf war led to the firebombing of more than 25 homes in two towns and has resulted in the deaths of three men and the shooting of an 11-year-old girl in the past 10 days. The police say the violence is a struggle for control of the drug trade. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: STRIKE HITS TOURISTS -- Thousands of vacationing British tourists were stranded at ferry terminals on both sides of the English Channel as French fishermen blockaded piers to protest rising fuel prices. Also on the rise were neighborly irritations. One Englishman stuck in Calais, David Langford, 28, of King's Lynn, Norfolk, said, "I've just traveled from Thailand and I have come through 11 countries, and it is always France that causes the trouble." Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
WEST TIMOR: U.N. RESUMES AID -- The United Nations has resumed aid to East Timor refugees in camps in West Timor after Indonesia arrested two suspects in the beating of three aid workers on Aug. 23. Authorities in West Timor, which shares an island with East Timor and is moving to independence under United Nations administration, also opened an inquiry into violence against aid workers. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
MYANMAR: PLEA ON ACTIVIST -- International pressure mounted on the military government as the pro-democracy activist Daw Aung San Suu Kyi entered the seventh day of a roadside confrontation with the authorities. Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations called on the ruling generals to resolve the standoff with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who is camped with a group of followers just outside the capital after a symbolic attempt to travel to meet with supporters. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: REFORMERS' RESTRAINT -- Mainstream reformers scrambled to head off rising anger on campuses after five days of Islamic vigilante violence against the student movement. Reformist legislators from the Islamic Iran Participation Front denounced attacks by hard-line gangs, backed by elements of the security forces, on a student gathering in Khorramabad, but warned students not to take to the streets. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: BANKER LOSES A ROUND -- A banker who fled Mexico after being charged with $700 million in fraud in 1994 has lost another round in his fight to avoid extradition from Australia. An Australian federal judge rejected an appeal of an extradition order by Carlos Cabal Peniche, left, the Mexican attorney general reported. Also affected is Mr. Cabal's brother-in-law, Marco Pasini. They can now appeal to the full three-judge federal court. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
SIERRA LEONE: FIVE SOLDIERS FREED -- A British military spokesman said that five British soldiers were released by their captors and were safe and well in the capital, Freetown. In London, a Foreign Office spokesman said negotiations would resume early today for the release of the remaining six British soldiers held in the jungle by a renegade group called the West Side Boys. (Reuters)
 
ZIMBABWE: COST OF WAR -- The new minister of finance disclosed to Parliament that the country's two-year-long involvement in Congo's civil war has cost about $200 million, nearly three times more than previously disclosed. Even as its own economy has crumbled over the last two years, Zimbabwe has had thousands of troops stationed in Congo battling rebels backed by Rwanda and Uganda. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: PLEA ON RACISM -- Opening a national conference on racism, President Thabo Mbeki urged South Africans to fight the scourge that continues to afflict the nation six years after the end of apartheid. He acknowledged that some whites may consider the topic divisive, but he said the struggle will fail unless people work together. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)
 
MOZAMBIQUE: ELECTION REPORT -- In its final report on Mozambique's elections, the Carter Center found that the credibility of the vote was marred by technical problems and a lack of transparency in the final count. But the center officials, who observed the elections on Dec. 3, 4 and 5, said the problems did not affect the result. President Joaquim Chissano was re-elected and his party retained control. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); ENGLAND (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); ENGLAND (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); NAVIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); REFUGEES (70%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); FERRIES (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: WARREN HOGE (63%); JOHN HUME (58%); CARLOS CABAL PENICHE (57%); DAVID TRIMBLE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



721 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Endorsements for the Legislature

 BODY:
New York's legislators have traditionally enjoyed something close to political tenure. In the last election, every incumbent won re-election. But in the Sept. 12 primary, several veteran legislators face real challenges. Here are our endorsements in five races. As in all our primary endorsements, the choices do not assure our endorsement in the general election.
SENATE -- 26th District, Manhattan. State Senator Roy Goodman, a progressive Republican, is one of several targets for Democrats trying to gain control of the State Legislature. His opposition this year will be decided in a vigorous primary battle between Liz Krueger, a longtime community activist, and Robert Bellinson, a lawyer who ran against Mr. Goodman two years ago. Ms. Krueger is known for her efforts to relieve hunger and housing problems among low-income New Yorkers and seeks to expand health care. Mr. Bellinson is campaigning to build the Second Avenue subway and an East Side high school, and to stop organized pub-crawling in the area. In the Democratic primary, we endorse Ms. Krueger, a dynamic community leader with a broader political agenda. 
 ASSEMBLY -- 36th District, Queens. This is the fourth time that Kimon Thermos, a lawyer and president of the Democratic Club in Queens, has run for this seat, edging closer each time to defeating Assemblyman Denis Butler. Mr. Butler decided to retire this round and now Michael Gianaris, associate counsel to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, has entered the contest with the full backing of Mr. Silver and most of the Democratic establishment. Mr. Gianaris has promised that he will be independent of his Democratic elders. But Mr. Thermos has worked more closely with the community and has a chance to be more independent in Albany. We have recommended Mr. Thermos in earlier tries and we endorse him in the primary this year.
54th District, Brooklyn. Despite Assemblyman Darryl Towns's eight years in office, his ambitions for his district have steadily dwindled and his connections to the tobacco industry remain troubling. Although we endorsed Mr. Towns in the last election, it is now time for voters to look elsewhere. His primary opponent, Martin Malave-Dilan, a City Council member, promises to focus on health care, education and economic revitalization in the area. Although he has not organized his campaign finance reports in a timely fashion, apparently because of computer problems, we endorse Mr. Malave-Dilan in the primary and urge him to file timely campaign finance reports in the general election.
57th District, Brooklyn. Hakeem Jeffries, a lawyer with an army of young volunteers, has mounted a formidable challenge this year against Roger Green, who has been in the Assembly for almost 20 years. Mr. Jeffries makes a straightforward case that the district has not prospered and the district office is not efficient enough for constituents. However, Mr. Green has become a thoughtful and diligent leader in Albany, often tackling difficult issues like children's health and welfare. We endorse Mr. Green in the Democratic primary.
68th District, Manhattan. In a area where his father is still famous, Adam Clayton Powell 4th is now trying to unseat Assemblyman Nelson Denis. Mr. Denis, an articulate speaker, has made an admirable effort trying to get banks to give more loans in his area. Despite going along with Assembly leaders to repeal the city's commuter tax, Mr. Denis has since shown his independence and worked for a more open process in the Legislature. We endorse Mr. Denis in the primary. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (56%); STATE LEGISLATURE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS; PRIMARIES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); VOLUNTEERS (63%); CITIES (62%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: KREUGER, LIZ; THERMOS, KIMON; MALAVE-DILAN, MARTIN; GREEN, ROGER L (ASSEMBLYMAN); DENIS, NELSON ANTONIO (ASSEMBLYMAN) HAKEEM JEFFRIES (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



722 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Falls 112 Points on Concerns Over Manufacturing

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks dropped yesterday on concern that profits at traditional manufacturing companies will be hit by possible further rises in interest rates and a slowing in demand in some parts of the economy.
Gains in Internet issues, however, helped support the technology-heavy Nasdaq despite losses in some other sectors, like semiconductor producers. 
 "Stocks are still reflecting some ambiguity about further interest rate increases by the Fed because of recent economic data portraying a stronger environment," said Ned Riley, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors in Boston.
He was referring to home sales data for July issued on Tuesday, which showed a rise last month to the highest level in seven years. Investors fear that if other data confirms such signs that suggest a growing rather than a slowing economy, the Federal Reserve may order further interest rate increases.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 112.09 points, or 1 percent, to 11,103.01, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 7.25 points, or half a percent, to 1,502.59.
Recently highflying technology companies like International Business Machines succumbed to the selling pressure, falling $2.56, to $130.31, while General Electric declined $2, to $57.81.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.64 points, or 0.5 percent, to 4,103.81.
"In a nutshell, clearly some profit taking is taking place in some of the leaders of the last couple of weeks, I.B.M. and General Electric and those types of securities," Mr. Riley said.
The negative tone to the day's trading was partly set by Whirlpool, which said earnings for its third quarter would fall as much as 37 percent below analysts' estimates. It held steady at $37.88, roughly half its 52-week high.
That news as well as concern about the possibility of higher borrowing costs pushed stocks of retailers down. Home Depot dipped $1, to $48.31, and Wal-Mart Stores dropped $1.75, to $48.19.
Credit Suisse confirmed that it would buy the investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in a deal worth about $12.8 billion, sending shares of Donaldson $6.13 higher, to $88.38.
The investment banking giant J. P. Morgan jumped to a new 52-week high of $155.25 after it was upgraded by ING Barings to a "buy" from a "hold." It ended up $2.06 at $151.06.
Other financial firms rode on Donaldson, Lufkin's coattails as investors speculated which one was likely to be the next takeover target.
The Internet retailer Amazon.com jumped $3.31, to $42.94, after Goldman, Sachs reiterated its rating on the firm as a "trading buy" and said the overall outlook was positive.
But semiconductor shares continued to suffer. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index was down 1.22 percent.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Increase
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose as investors snapped up bonds at more attractive levels to match expected changes in benchmark indexes at the end of the month. Stock declines also increased the allure of bonds.
"People were willing to buy bonds at lower levels today because they knew" they have to buy to match changes in the indexes that they follow, said Sadakichi Robbins, head of fixed-income trading at Bank Julius Baer. The duration on many indexes is expected to grow as they account for the $25 billion in 5-year, 10-year and 30-year government debt sold earlier this month.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 4/32, to a price of 99 23/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.79 percent from 5.80 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed 9/32, to 107 14/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.73 percent from 5.74 percent on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (61%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); IBMC (BRU) (55%); IBM (NYSE) (55%); IBM (LSE) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (61%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); ELECTRONICS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); 

PERSON: NED RILEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



723 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: FuelCell Says Spending Causes Wider Loss

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn., Aug. 30

 BODY:
FuelCell Energy Inc. said its fiscal third-quarter loss widened because the company bolstered spending as it prepared to start selling its fuel-cell power plants next year.
The loss increased to $1.31 million, or 17 cents a share, from $386,000, or 6 cents, a year earlier. Revenue, mostly from government contracts, fell 6.8 percent in the three months ended July 31, to $4.11 million, from $4.42 million. 
Research and development costs rose 21 percent, to $3.4 million, while capital spending jumped about tenfold, to $1.3 million, the chief financial officer, Joseph Mahler, said in an interview. FuelCell Energy expects to complete a manufacturing plant in Torrington, Conn., by January.
FuelCell Energy, based in Danbury, plans to sell its power plants to businesses and institutions like hospitals that need a reliable power source. Customers include the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power and the Marubeni Corporation of Japan.
Fuel cells generate electricity by extracting hydrogen from fuel and combining it with oxygen from the air. Water vapor is the main byproduct. The lack of emissions has attracted power companies and automakers, which face stricter clean air rules in North America and Europe.
FuelCell Energy shares fell $2.75, to $113.125. The stock has more than quadrupled this year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCEL (NASDAQ) (97%); 8002 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (97%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (97%); SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (97%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (97%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (69%); NAICS423810 CONSTRUCTION & MINING (EXCEPT OIL WELL) MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS112111 BEEF CATTLE RANCHING & FARMING (69%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (69%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (69%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (76%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FUELCELL ENERGY INC FUELCELL ENERGY INC (97%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (69%); MARUBENI CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUELCELL ENERGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FUEL CELL MFG (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); AIR QUALITY (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (56%); EXECUTIVES (55%); AUTOMAKERS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



724 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Whirlpool Lowers Forecast, Reflecting Anxiety in Industry

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Whirlpool, the nation's largest maker of home appliances, warned today that its profit would be sharply lower than expected in the second half of the year, partly because of Circuit City's decision to stop selling major appliances at its retail outlets.
Whirlpool also blamed an industrywide slowdown and fierce price competition that is cutting into profit margins. A large part of the downturn in the home appliance market is being attributed to slumping retail sales and a weakening housing market in the United States, where higher interest rates have cooled consumer buying. 
 Whirlpool reduced its profit estimates by as much as 37 percent for the third quarter and 25 percent for the second half. A week ago, Wall Street was projecting profits of $7 a diluted share this year, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Today, analysts are expecting profits of about $5.58 a share.
The analysts said that five weeks ago, when Circuit City made its announcement, Whirlpool played down the news, so few on Wall Street expected such a sharp cut in the earnings forecasts.
"They caught everybody by surprise today," said Justin Maurer, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "I took my number down to $6.25, but obviously it wasn't enough."
Whirlpool closed unchanged, at $37.88, in heavy trading on the Big Board, though at one point in today's session it had been off as much as $6.61. But the stock has been hammered in recent weeks and is near an eight-year low on concern that the company's prospects are declining.
Indeed, the Whirlpool announcement was just the latest blow to an industry that has been jolted by a weakening housing market and changes in the retailing market that have Circuit City quitting the business and Wal-Mart Stores selling major appliances in a low-cost format. The stock of Maytag has plummeted more than 40 percent the last year because of two profit warnings partly caused by a slowdown in the sale of its lower-priced models. With the industry under pressure, Electrolux, the giant Swedish appliance maker, has recently been talking with Maytag about a possible merger.
The industry has also been shaken by changes in the retail market and developments with the Internet. GE Appliances, a unit of General Electric, has made deals with Home Depot and Wal-Mart to ship its inventory directly to homes. The customers, though, would order at a retailer's kiosk or Web site.
General Electric is creating a system that would allow it to sell through big retailers but handle all the inventory and shipping to the customer itself. This week, Lloyd D. Ward, the chief executive at Maytag, said it was also considering distributing its products through G.E.
"The traditional model has changed overnight," said Terry Dunn, a spokesman at GE Appliances. "A retailer doesn't need trucks, systems and warehouses to be in the appliance business."
Wall Street analysts say distribution is a major factor in the pessimism surrounding Whirlpool's stock. Some of that pessimism was aroused on Monday, after Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst at Prudential Securities, issued a bearish forecast on Whirlpool's prospect with a rare "sell" rating on the stock.
Mr. Heymann said that Whirlpool's profit outlook was dim over the next few years and that the stock could fall to as low as $25 a share because companies like G.E. were changing the industry's dynamics.
In a conference call with Wall Street analysts, however, Whirlpool officials denounced Mr. Heymann's report as misguided and "lacking credibility." They said the company's own studies had found that consumers were not changing their buying habits and still wanted what would, in effect, be full-service offerings from retailers.
"This is pure speculation about where business will be done," said David R. Whitwam, chief executive at Whirlpool, based in Benton Harbor, Mich. "And if people want to buy in different formats in the future, we'll be there."
Whirlpool also said that its own retail distribution setup had "similar capabilities" and was "competitive" with that of G.E.
Company officials also told analysts that the market's valuing of Whirlpool was "illogical," particularly because the company expects business to recover in the fourth quarter with profits expected to grow about 15 percent in 2001.
In the meantime, Whirlpool plans to step up a stock buyback that until recently had repurchased millions of shares at an average of $55 a share.
Company officials also said the industry's price war was "irrational" and could have a longer-term impact but that Circuit City's decision to leave the business would only have a short-term effect. Circuit City did about 5 percent of the nation's retail appliance business, Whirlpool said.
Whirlpool said its own studies suggested that customers would move to Sears, Best Buy, Lowe's and other outlets, where Whirlpool was a dominant player with its brands that include Whirlpool, Roper and KitchenAid. And company executives say they would not compete simply on price.
"We have products no one can match," Mr. Whitwam said. "Price is not the first purchase criteria for most of our customers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Edwards, right, a salesman at a Circuit City in Atlanta, shows a Whirlpool washer to a customer, Chris Winn. The chain has decided to stop selling major household appliances. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Appliance Kings"
Four companies dominate the market for household appliances. That number could drop to three if Electrolux and Maytag, which have had talks, merge.
 
Whirlpool
1999 REVENUES (BILLIONS): $10.5
1999 PROFITS (MILLIONS): $347
1998 U.S. MARKET SHARE: 36%
 
General Electric*
1999 REVENUES (BILLIONS): $5.7
1999 PROFITS (MILLIONS): $655
1998 U.S. MARKET SHARE: 29%
 
Maytag
1999 REVENUES (BILLIONS): $4.3
1999 PROFITS (MILLIONS): $329
1998 U.S. MARKET SHARE: 17%
 
Electrolux
1999 REVENUES (BILLIONS): $14.6
1999 PROFITS (MILLIONS): $519
1998 U.S. MARKET SHARE: 12%
*Figures are for its appliance division only.
(Sources: Prudential Securities; company reports)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHIRLPOOL (NSE) (92%); WHR (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (74%); GEC (LSE) (74%); GE (SWX) (74%); GE (NYSE) (74%); WMT (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (66%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP; CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC WHIRLPOOL OF INDIA LTD (92%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (74%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); WAL-MART STORES INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHIRLPOOL CORP; CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOME APPLIANCES; COMPANY REPORTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); HOME CENTERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); MERGERS (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID NICHOLAS P HEYMANN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



725 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Mexico Is Ordered to Pay a U.S. Company $16.7 Million

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
An international tribunal that worked behind closed doors to arbitrate a cross-border dispute between a United States company and the Mexican government ordered Mexico to pay nearly $17 million in compensatory damages yesterday for failing to protect the company's rights as a foreign investor.
The tribunal, citing investor-protection measures in Chapter 11 of the North American Free Trade Agreement, found that the government's actions amounted to an expropriation because they prevented the Metalclad Corporation of Newport Beach, Calif., from making full use of a multimillion-dollar hazardous waste treatment and disposal site it built several years ago in a central Mexican state, San Luis Potosi. 
 Authorities in the state stopped the project, saying it was environmentally unsound, and eventually declared the area where it was situated an environmental reserve, preventing it from ever opening.
The Metalclad dispute, and the $16.7 million judgment, represent the latest unexpected turn in the way Nafta has been used since it took effect in January 1994. Several American and Canadian companies have used the agreement to challenge unfavorable actions of local governments. Coming after the large-scale protests against globalization in Seattle, and amid a growing backlash against trade that is seen as too free, the decision is likely to increase concern that trade accords could be used to circumvent local laws.
Mary E. Bottari, who tracks regulatory changes for Global Trade Watch, a Washington-based group aligned with Public Citizen, said: "Anytime any investment is infringed upon by regulation, anytime any worker safety protection puts any burden on a company, these companies may use this Chapter 11 system to directly sue sovereign governments -- it's crazy. This is a part of the hidden agenda of Nafta."
Clyde C. Pearce, the lawyer representing Metalclad, which did insulation and asbestos-removal work in Southern California before expanding into Mexico, said such thinking is "dead wrong."
"Metalclad met all federal and state environmental regulations," he said. "Besides, there is nothing stopping these governments from denying a landfill at any point, as long as they pay for it."
Under Nafta's Chapter 11 investor provisions, disputes of this type that cannot be settled through negotiation may be brought before the tribunal, the International Center for Investment Dispute Settlement, an obscure arm of the World Bank.
A three-person panel, composed of arbitrators picked by the opposing sides, operates with broad latitude and almost complete institutional secrecy. Its sessions are private, its actions cannot be appealed except in limited circumstances, and its decisions may not be publicized unless the principals involved choose to make them known.
Grant S. Kesler, president and chief executive of Metalclad, called the panel's decision in his company's favor "as Pyrrhic a victory as any I've experienced."
"This is a token amount of money that doesn't really reflect the value of the project," he said. The company had asked for $90 million in damages and estimated that it had spent more than $20 million in planning, permitting and construction.
"The biggest losers of all," Mr. Kesler added, "are the people of Mexico who continue to have to live in a country that produces 10 million tons of hazardous waste a year and has only one facility in the whole country to handle it."
Metalclad made its move into Mexico in 1991, opening waste transfer stations and collection sites in a dozen states. It then bought an existing but poorly prepared disposal site in San Luis Potosi, getting the necessary approvals from the national government to build a disposal plant capable of handling up to 360,000 tons of hazardous waste a year.
The site was ready to begin operation in March 1995 when Mexican citizens set up protests outside. The local governor brought in the police and effectively blocked Metalclad from operating.
Mr. Pearce, Metalclad's lawyer, said company officials tried for years to negotiate with the local authorities, agreeing to conduct $500,000 in additional environmental studies and working with the surrounding community.
But the governor continued to oppose the project, despite Mexico City approval. Mr. Pearce said federal studies all indicated that the site, originally selected by the authorities, was environmentally sound.
Metalclad filed its Nafta claim in January 1997. Hearings were held in Washington last summer, and nothing was heard from the tribunal until yesterday afternoon.
The Mexican government now has 45 days to begin making the $16.7 million payment to Metalclad. If it does not pay by then, 6 percent interest, compounded monthly, will be added to the award.
Mr. Pearce said the tribunal's ruling was the first time a sovereign nation had been found not to have provided foreign investors fair and equitable treatment. The impact, he said, could be significant because other countries are now put on notice that they will be expected to extend to foreign companies the openness and clear regulations those companies are entitled to at home.
He said the governor's obstruction "resulted in 'a state-of-the-art, fully completed hazardous waste facility that is just sitting there, while tons of dangerous materials are just dumped clandestinely all over Mexico."
Mexican officials said they were surprised by the panel's decision and might seek to have it nullified. They were particularly upset by the finding that Metalclad had not been treated fairly because it was led to believe that it had all the necessary permits to operate the hazardous waste site.
Luis de la Calle, Mexico's under secretary of commerce, said local jurisdiction over construction of such sensitive environmental projects was clear. He said he was not worried that the problems encountered by Metalclad might cause other United States companies to hesitate before investing in Mexico.
Several other North American business disputes have found their way to the Nafta arbitration process. In one, the Ethyl Corporation of Richmond took action against the Canadian government because of a ban on the importing of its gasoline additive. Canada was eventually forced to lift the ban.
Last year, the Methanex Corporation of Vancouver, British Columbia, filed a $970 million claim against the United States government because California had banned imports of its own gasoline additive. That claim is pending.
And the Loewen Group, a large funeral home operator throughout North America that is based in Canada, is trying to use Nafta to overturn a huge judgment against it for anticompetitive practices. A Mississippi state jury found that Loewen had tried to drive a local funeral establishment out of business and awarded the local company $500 million in compensatory and punitive damages. Loewen settled out of court for $150 million.
Loewen later brought a Nafta action against the United States on grounds that the Mississippi jury's damage award violated its rights as an investor in the United States. A decision has not yet been handed down. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS238310 DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (71%); SIC1742 PLASTERING, DRYWALL, ACOUSTICAL, & INSULATION WORK (71%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR INVESTMENT DISPUTE SETTLEMENT; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; METALCLAD CORP ENTRPRIZE CORP (71%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR INVESTMENT DISPUTE SETTLEMENT; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; METALCLAD CORP NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN LUIS POTOSI (MEXICO); MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); LANDFILLS (75%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAWYERS (69%); ASBESTOS (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY CLYDE C PEARCE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



726 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Besmirched 'Deportland' Wrestles With the I.N.S.

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Aug. 29

 BODY:
"Monstrous" is the word used by Portland's mayor, Vera Katz. The executive director of the Port of Portland says the city's reputation has been tarred by "Gestapo-type actions." A state senator here says the conduct in question is "racist and xenophobic." And United States Senator Gordon H. Smith, a Republican, put it this way today, "We don't want Portland to be known as "Deportland."
All four are talking about the conduct of the local branch of the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. The furor has been fanned by the recent strip-search and two-night jailing of a Chinese businesswoman who had landed here on her way to New York. But public officials were already concerned that immigration agents were detaining or deporting foreign travelers at a much higher rate than at other West Coast airports. 
 For Portland, which labored mightily to persuade Delta Air Lines to establish a minihub here with nonstop flights to Asia, the controversy over the immigration office has been a blow to the city's image abroad. The South China Morning Post reported recently that the city was already known as "Deportland" in some Asian countries, and the Kyodo News Service of Japan has also reported on the problems, prompting some Japanese travel agencies to advise their customers to avoid flying through Portland if possible.
Delta has already scaled back its cross-Pacific flights to Portland to two a day, both from Japan, having once had four daily nonstops, including flights from Seoul, South Korea, and Taipei, Taiwan.
And, citing fears that the controversy over the immigration service's treatment of foreigners here might lead the airline to scrap them altogether, public officials here have begun mounting a furious campaign to revamp the office. The mayor, the governor and both United States senators here, as well as one from neighboring Washington State, have all called for the resignation of the local director.
For Portland, which prides itself on being one of the nation's more livable and culturally tolerant cities, the entire controversy is strange and wounding, and it could have severe economic consequences. A Port of Portland study said that losing the direct air link to Asia could cost the city as much as $900 million a year in lost trade and tourism. And even as the immigration agency has faced accusations of mistreatment or insensitivity in its dealings with foreigners at ports-of-entry around the country, the criticism here is particularly harsh, prompting officials to promise a complete review of the Portland office.
"We are absolutely committed to restoring public confidence in our operations at P.D.X.," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the agency's western division, using the three-letter airport code for Portland. "We will not rest until the job is done."
Inspectors at the Portland airport will be given additional training in "cultural awareness and professional communications skills," Ms. Kice said, and the western regional director for the agency, Johnny Williams, traveled to Portland on Monday to meet with public officials and announce other procedures, including higher-level authorization for decisions to detain or search foreigners arriving at the airport, and a better system for translation.
Even as they acknowledged that Portland's deportation rates were demonstrably higher than those in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle, immigration officials noted that the vast majority of foreigners were admitted into the country at any of those airports, and that rate differences between Portland and other West Coast airports had narrowed significantly in the past year.
According to the immigration agency, from May through July of this year, Portland turned back 58 of 34,694 foreigners arriving here, meaning it admitted 99.83 percent of them. Seattle admitted all but 80 of 122,633 (99.94 percent), and Los Angeles admitted all but 752 of 1,236,679 (also 99.94 percent).
Moreover, officials said, there may be additional reasons that Portland has a higher rate of deportations. Because it has much smaller numbers of foreign travelers, they said, agents here may actually be able to do a better job of screening out counterfeit documents, and a higher percentage of people arriving here are workers, who are more likely than tourists to have problems proving they have the proper authorization to remain in the country.
None of that, however, seems to have quelled the public outrage here or the perception abroad that Portland is a bad place to enter the country. And the strip-search treatment of the Chinese businesswoman, which was first reported by The Oregonian, a daily newspaper here, was described as the "last straw" by Mike Thorne, the executive director of the Port of Portland.
The woman, Guo Liming, of Guangzhou, China, arrived here on an Aug. 19 flight. An agent, who has not been publicly identified by the immigration service, decided that her passport was suspicious because the laminate over the photograph was loose, indicating that the photograph could have been replaced.
The director of the office here, David Beebe, later told a reporter that the woman also "fit the profile" of an illegal immigrant because she was traveling with another person -- a man who turned out to be her fiance.
Ms. Guo was shortly removed to a room where she was ordered to strip down to her underwear, and was inspected by two female agents. She was then handcuffed and taken to Northern Oregon Regional Corrections Facility in The Dalles, Ore., 80 miles away, while the agency investigated whether her passport was bogus. Inspectors declined to tell her fiance, Hsieh Tsuhui, where she was, and he hired a Portland immigration lawyer to track her down.
After spending two nights in jail, Ms. Guo was told by the immigration service that her passport was indeed authentic, and they brought her back to the airport for a flight to New York. Mr. Beebe initially defended the agency's treatment of her, but after the Oregonian article about her ordeal set off a storm of outrage, he reviewed the incident, announced that agents had erred in their handling of her, and offered Ms. Guo an apology. Ms. Guo is traveling and could not be reached for an interview, said her Portland lawyer, Bao Lin Chen.
The incident was not an isolated one: the immigration service here has come under fire for jailings of other foreigners, including six Chinese teenagers seeking asylum. But Mr. Beebe has resisted calls from elected officials for his resignation, and the agency has not announced any disciplinary action against the agents who dealt with Ms. Guo. Mr. Beebe referred calls to the immigration service's regional office in Laguna Niguel, Calif. Mr. Williams, the director there, said it was too early to call for anyone's dismissal here. "You would not jump to that kind of a decision without benefit of a full look at all the issues at hand," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Beebe, the beleaguered chief of the immigration branch. (Associated Press); The strip search of Guo Liming, a Chinese businesswoman shown with her fiance, Hsieh Tsuhui, inflamed anger over the jailings and deportations of foreign travelers who passed through the airport in Portland, Ore. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (90%); TAIWAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (97%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; DELTA AIR LINES INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (69%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; DELTA AIR LINES INC IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (90%); TAIWAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); OREGON, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (97%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS IMMIGRATION (92%); AIRLINES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRPORTS (88%); MISCONDUCT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEPORTATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (68%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; GUO LIMING GORDON SMITH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



727 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: 2 Greengrocers to Give Back Wages to Underpaid Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Two Manhattan greengrocers have agreed to pay nearly $100,000 in back wages to immigrant workers who sometimes received only $200 for working 72-hour weeks, state officials said yesterday.
One of the workers, Candido Aparicio, an immigrant from Mexico, said that he worked like an animal, lifting heavy loads during 12-hour days for which he did not receive time-and-a-half overtime pay. 
 Mr. Aparicio spoke at a news conference yesterday at the Manhattan office of Eliot L. Spitzer, the state attorney general, who investigated the two stores, Lucky Farms, at Broadway and 105th Street, and the 118 First Avenue Food and Vegetable Corporation, which is at First Avenue and Seventh Street.
The attorney general's office said many workers at the grocers were paid $180 to $360 for 72-hour weeks, which translates to $2.60 to $3.60 an hour. The minimum wage is $5.15 an hour. "As a society, we should be far beyond the point where individuals are required to work long, arduous hours for less than the minimum wage," Mr. Spitzer said.
Mr. Spitzer announced that Lucky Farm agreed to pay $62,500 in back wages to six workers and that 118 First Avenue had agreed to pay $29,608 in back wages and damages to four workers.
He said his office pursued the two grocers as part of an effort to stop minimum wage violations involving immigrant workers and to pressure all of New York City's 2,000 greengrocers to comply with state and federal labor laws. Most of the more than 10,000 employees at these stores are Mexicans, and many of them are illegal immigrants.
Labor experts say there is widespread flouting of minimum wage laws at such stores and occasional illegal use of child labor.
The attorney general's office also announced yesterday that it had undertaken an education program that is intended to encourage grocery stores across the city and state to comply with wage and hour laws. His office is working on this education campaign with the United States Department of Labor and the Korean Produce Association, which advises greengrocers and provides them with a distribution network.
Mr. Spitzer called the long hours and low wages "egregiously wrong, especially in this time of economic prosperity."
Mr. Aparicio, who worked at Lucky Farms, said that for years he was paid just $200 after 72 hours or more each week. But he said his employer started paying him $400 a week, after deductions, as soon as Mr. Spitzer's office began investigating last year.
"We were mistreated constantly," Mr. Aparicio said in an interview. "We were cursed by the employer. If we got sick, we didn't get paid."
Andrew Hoffmann, a lawyer for Lucky Farm, said his client had amicably settled the matter. "Unfortunately, there is widespread ignorance of some of the technical aspects of the wage and hour laws," he said, "particularly among some of the immigrant communities."
Mr. Hoffmann said many store owners were "ethical, hardworking people who work very long hours in a very marginal business."
A man who answered the telephone at 118 First Avenue said the owner was not available for comment. The store's lawyer, Lloyd Somer, was unavailable because he was away on vacation, a law firm receptionist said.
Mr. Spitzer's office said it was tipped off to the violations by Local 169 of the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Greengrocer employees Candido Aparicio, right, and Antonin Rivera appeared yesterday at a news conference with the state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer. The store, at 118 First Avenue, was one of two that agreed to pay back wages. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LUCKY FARM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUCKY FARM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE WAGES & SALARIES (93%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); BACK PAY (91%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); OVERTIME (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); CHILD LABOR (73%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) ELIOT SPITZER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



728 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: A Drug Plan Fraught With Risk

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Aug. 30

 BODY:
"We have no military objective," President Clinton told the Colombian people in a passionate television address on the eve of his one-day visit here today. "We do not believe your conflict has a military solution. Our approach is both pro-peace and anti-drug."
President Clinton did everything he could today to dispel the notion that the United States is about to slip into the morass of another jungle war like El Salvador, or worse yet, Vietnam. Colombian officials invited him to visit a naval base involved in drug interdiction, but instead he chose to visit a neighborhood justice center, to show the humane side of United States aid. 
 But it is one thing to engage in photo-ops during an eight-hour trip to this city, a Caribbean tourist center far from any fighting; it is quite another to help the Colombian government to retake control of the half of its territory that has been lost to Marxist guerrillas who are in league with coca growers and drug traffickers.
Drugs are so lucrative, they cannot be easily separated from a tangle of treacherous risks that will face any growing United States involvement in Colombia.
The production and trafficking of cocaine and heroin touch and corrupt the country's judicial system, politics and economics, and they fuel not only a growing guerrilla movement but also a brutal paramilitary movement loosely linked to local military units.
President Clinton's trip here is effectively a colorful handoff of a check for $1.3 billion in mostly military aid recently approved by Congress. An anti-drug brigade will soon begin backing police efforts to eradicate coca fields in two southern provinces largely controlled by Colombia's most powerful guerrilla group. The 60 helicopters included in the package are to be used only for anti-drug efforts, unless military units fighting drugs are attacked by the guerrillas.
This plan, according to United States officials, is nothing more than a fight against drugs that are subverting Colombia's democracy and poisoning youths across the United States. In all likelihood, no United States troops will be engaged in the fighting because there is no desire for that in Congress and because the Pentagon has shown no enthusiasm for a deepening involvement, in contrast to the early days of Vietnam.
Nevertheless, the program is a sharp break from past policy. Washington treated the last president of Colombia as a pariah -- refusing even to grant him a visa -- when it was discovered that his campaign accepted a $6 million contribution from the Cali drug cartel. Washington for years snubbed the armed forces, and funneled most aid to the national police, after military commanders protected leaders of the Medellin drug cartel in the 1980's.
The change in policy requires some nose-holding, even though President Andres Pastrana is considered a well-intentioned reformer.
Before a single helicopter has arrived, President Clinton had to waive on national security grounds the human rights amendments Congress had added to the program. The decision was an acknowledgement that the United States must put up with rights offenses that might otherwise be considered intolerable. Any other decision would have undermined the new program before it even got started, and human rights concerns are not likely to derail what promises to be a long-term involvement.
It was much the same when President Ronald Reagan repeatedly overlooked the human rights violations of El Salvador's military and Nicaragua's Contras to keep his Central America program going.
The guerrillas here are not nearly as formidable as were the Vietcong or even the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front of El Salvador. With the cold war over, Communism is no longer a threat, United States officials admit, and the guerrillas who have fought here for the last 40 years no longer can count on the help of Moscow or Havana. And according to opinion polls, they have the support of less than 5 percent of the people.
The most important support the Colombian guerrillas have going for them, say most analysts, is a ready gold mine of drug protection money estimated at several hundred million dollars a year. That is enough to keep them well equipped, well fed, and unenthusiastic about making peace.
Critics of the aid program say it is designed in Washington to meet domestic political concerns in the United States and has no relevancy to the reality in Colombia.
"There is no way to sustain the distinction between drug traffickers and guerrillas in southern Colombia," said Bruce Bagley, a professor of international studies at the University of Miami. "U.S. policy will break down the first day."
Colombian officials disagree, saying the plan will ultimately destroy the guerrillas' capacity to make war.
"It's not a matter of Marxist philosophy anymore; the guerrillas are now in the fight for the money," General Fernando Tapias, commander of the armed forces, said in a recent interview. "The plan for peace will not work without a decisive fight against drugs."
But the armed forces here remain small, under-equipped, under trained, lacking in intelligence-gathering capabilities and lacking in mobility even with the new helicopters. It took a decade to rebuild the Salvadoran Army, and the United States effort to do the same in Colombia is not a short-term project either, as United States officials concede.
Those deficiencies make a long war likely.
What does Washington do if the guerrillas shoot at the helicopters, or worse yet at the United States military trainers working with the new anti-drug brigade? What if the guerrillas and the coca growers and drug traffickers simply move from the two southern provinces and spread the war to other Colombian provinces or even neighboring countries like Peru and Brazil?
Either President Al Gore or President George W. Bush may well have to face those contingencies, and the options they will have to choose from will not be easy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); COCAINE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); DRUG INTERDICTION (77%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); NAVIES (73%); HEROIN (72%); APPROVALS (70%); CARTELS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



729 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Gap Says Sales in August To Decline a Surprising 14%
Gap stunned investors by announcing after the stock market closed that sales in stores open at least a year, a key industry measurement, would decline 14 percent in August, well below what most analysts expected. 
 The Gap's announcement is more remarkable because it comes after a series of highly atypical stumbles. The company had a rare earnings disappointment in the first quarter, and then announced a more pronounced earnings shortfall in the second quarter and predicted that earnings would be lower than analysts expected for the entire year. Page C2.
 
Mexico Ordered to Pay Damages
An international tribunal that worked to arbitrate a cross-border dispute between an American company, Metalclad, and the Mexican government ordered Mexico to pay nearly $17 million in damages. Citing investor protection provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement, the tribunal found that the government's actions amounted to an expropriation because they prevented Metalclad from enjoying the full use of the hazardous waste treatment and disposal site it constructed. Shares of Metalclad rose 6 cents, to $4.31. C4.
 
Blue Chips Drop on Profit Concerns
Blue-chip stocks dropped on concern about profits at manufacturing companies. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 112.09 points, or 1 percent, to 11,103.01, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 7.25 points, to 1,502.59. The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.64 points, to 4,103.81. C6.
 
Intel Sues Broadcom in Patent Case
Intel filed a lawsuit accusing Broadcom of "a carefully crafted plan" to build its business in cable and high-speed networking products by violating Intel patents. C20.
 
A Robot That Builds a Robot
For the first time, scientists have created a robot that designs and builds other robots, almost entirely without human help. A1.
 
Judge Rejects MP3.com Argument
A federal judge rejected an argument by MP3.com that the Universal Music Group is improperly pursuing a copyright infringement claim against the company as a means of driving a potential rival out of business. C20.
 
Frankfurt Exchange Standing Pat
Werner G. Seifert, the head of the Frankfurt stock market, refused to sweeten the terms of a proposed merger with the London Stock Exchange, dismissing a rival bid of $1.2 billion by OM Gruppen of Sweden as "ridiculous and derisory." The unexpected, and hostile, bid has at least temporarily blocked the planned merger with Deutsche Borse. C4.
 
SBC and BellSouth Deal Approved
SBC Communications and BellSouth won Justice Department approval to create the nation's second-largest mobile-phone company after agreeing to sell overlapping properties in 16 markets with 20 million people. C2.
 
Leading Indicators Fell 0.1% in July
The index of leading economic indicators fell 0.1 percent in July, the third consecutive monthly drop, an industry group said. C6.
 
Boom Has Not Made Up Earlier Loss
What is too often ignored in the nation's booming economy is that this remarkable performance has not yet compensated for the persistent erosion of the income of male workers since the early 1970's. Women have had to fill the breach, but while their wages have risen substantially on average, their pay remains about 20 percent below what men earn. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,103.01 down 112.09
Nasdaq composite -- 4,103.81 up 21.64
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.73% down 0.01
The euro -- $0.8924 down 0.0001
The dollar -- 106.7 yen up 0.44
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Factory Orders
July figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: -7.0%
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Metalclad shares since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); T (NYSE) (81%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); AT&T INC (81%); BROADCOM CORP (54%); CBS INTERACTIVE INC (53%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (52%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); PATENTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); PATENT LAW (69%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); JUDGES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COPYRIGHT LAW (68%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (67%); COPYRIGHT (64%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



730 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Factory Closings in China Arouse Workers to Fury

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: TIANJIN, China, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The brick-walled Meite Packaging factory compound is nearly deserted now, its managers and machines hastily transferred in the last couple of days to a special development zone 30 miles outside this industrial city.
Although the closing had long been planned, the sudden departure was prompted by an unusual event here. Last week, desperate Chinese workers expecting layoffs seized six foreign managers from Meite's American parent company and held them hostage in the factory for 40 hours. 
 In the space of a decade, the Meite plant was transformed from a state-owned company making pipes to a beverage packaging firm jointly owned by the Chinese and an American corporation -- and, just recently, to a factory wholly owned by the foreign partner, the Ball Corporation of Broomfield, Colo.
And so this sweltering summer, middle-aged workers who not so many years ago were promised cradle-to-grave security by the state factory found their livelihoods suddenly threatened by a capitalist corporate restructuring and felt they had no where to turn.
"Every day since the beginning of August they were there at the gate, protesting and trying to block deliveries and people from going in," said Liu Qiuling, a retiree who lives next to the factory and knows many who worked there. "But the managers didn't meet with them. I think that's why the workers were so mad."
Taking foreign businessmen hostage is rare in China, despite the thousands of often fractious business partnerships between Chinese and foreign companies. But the workers' frustrations that touched off the incident are commonplace, leading to hundreds if not thousands of protests in recent years. Under government orders to become economically self-sufficient, many formerly state-owned factories have tried to transform themselves, often with the help of foreign partners.
The sink-or-swim strategy promoted by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji, who oversees economic policy, has no doubt rescued thousands of companies from bankruptcy and prepared them to compete in the global market. It has also often enriched many former state factory officials, who are often offered lucrative positions in the revamped business.
But it has been painful and confusing for China's tens of millions of workers, echoing similar privatization efforts in the former Soviet bloc. The workers are unfamiliar with the intricacies of buyouts and severance packages, generally lack effective labor unions and have little outlet for their complaints against new, often absentee, bosses.
"Workers' rights are not protected much when this happens," said Anita Chan, a labor expert at Australian National University. "These are people who worked for the state and thought they would work and then retire and enjoy certain benefits: health care, pensions, things like that.
"But then one day it's just finished. And they are 40 and have many decades of life ahead of them. What will they live on?"
She said the workers at Meite, who were offered a severance package, did better than many others who get nothing at all.
The conversion of state factories has often left the workers at odds with new employers, both foreign and Chinese. And protests, though rarely reported in the Chinese media, are a frequent result.
Earlier this month, also in Tianjin, disputes erupted between workers at a state-owned liquor company and its German partner, which wanted to sell factory parts for scrap metal. The workers blocked a truck, insisting that the profits from the metal were rightfully theirs.
Late last year, workers at the formerly state-owned Red Lion Paint Factory in Beijing ended up in a near-fatal standoff with the management after a new private owner, a Chinese company from Shandong Province, wanted to close the plant and sell the land.
When a delegation of workers failed to persuade the management to keep the factory going, some of the workers attempted suicide in the office of the factory's Communist Party secretary, who had sided with the new owners. One women swallowed a bottle of pesticide, and two men slashed their wrists.
Workers are often particularly incensed when factory bosses reap profits from restructuring while the workers suffer.
Opportunities for corruption abound when state property is released into the private market, because it is often difficult to place a value on such companies. Some former factory bosses have managed to buy profitable ventures at bargain basement rates.
"What laid-off workers particularly hate to see is their factory taken over by the factory management and converted to private assets," said Dai Jianzhong, a specialist in labor issues at the Beijing Academy of Social Sciences. "They see factory assets being used to buy cars and houses."
Often the desperate acts reflect the dire situation of middle-aged workers who find themselves abruptly without jobs in a country still poorly prepared to deal with unemployment.
Until a decade ago, nearly all urban Chinese workers received housing, health care and pensions through state jobs. Although that is changing, China has yet to develop an effective social security net for the unemployed or elderly. Its embryonic welfare system offers no health care or jobless benefits for people like those laid off from Meite.
And the ranks of such workers are likely to grow, because Meite was the victim of what in the West would count as business as usual.
Through a series of joint-venture partnerships in the 1990's, Meite's parent company, the Ball Corporation, has ended up with four packaging plants in Tianjin, mostly making soda and beer containers.
The plan now is to consolidate the four into one -- in the special economic development zone, which offers tax advantages, said Scott McCarty, a Ball spokesman.
Ball has 17 wholly owned or joint-venture companies in China and has been doing business in the country for more than 15 years.
The folding of four factories into one meant layoffs, and the company invited some workers at Meite, mostly people in their 20's, to move with it, a worker who answered the phone at the plant said. The decision is typical for downsizing Chinese companies, experts say, since the younger workers tend to be better educated.
The rest of the workers were offered a one-time severance payment of about $1,200, which many considered inadequate, prompting the protest.
On Wednesday last week, when executives from Ball's Hong Kong office went to post a closing notice in the factory, workers detained them in an office and would not let them leave, Mr. McCarty said. He said that the six men had not been physically harmed, but that the workers were verbally aggressive at times.
"Just like in the U.S., people were upset that their plant would close -- that's understandable," said Mr. McCarty. "From our point of view the incident is over now and it's fine." Still, he said the company would probably change some procedures, including those for closing factories.
The police did not enter the factory during the ordeal, calling it an "internal" matter. They would not say today if there had been any arrests.
The foreigners -- an American, two Malaysians and three Hong Kong residents -- were released after 40 hours early Friday. Mr. McCarty said he was unsure if concessions had been made, although a worker at the factory said the severance payment had been raised a bit.
But in a city with hundreds of thousands of laid-off and unemployed workers, that may provide little comfort. Of 30 jobs listed outside the district employment center near the factory, only one was listed as open to applicants over 35.
"People count me as lucky," said Mr. Liu, sitting on his old bicycle cart. "I retired a long time ago, so I have a pension. But what will these workers do if they get sick? How will they pay for that?"

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Farmers in Violent Protests
 (By The New York Times), BEIJING, Aug. 30 -- Thousands of farmers protesting high local taxes smashed government offices and looted homes of the rich in the southern province of Jiangxi this month, local officials told Reuters.
Similar disturbances have been reported from many rural areas as farmers with stagnant incomes face growing tax burdens from local governments, but this is one of the larger known cases, enveloping numerous towns and villages over 10 days until the police were deployed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of China shows the location of Tianjin: Tianjin is one of the major industrial cities of northern China. (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BLL (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (70%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TIANJIN, CHINA (69%); 

COMPANY: BALL CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TIANJIN, CHINA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRIVATIZATION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS CLOSINGS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



731 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: $3 MILLION FOR HARLEM LIBRARY
A Harlem branch of the New York Public Library will get $3.2 million in city money for renovations, according to a plan to be announced today by City Councilman Bill Perkins. The branch, on West 115th Street, will also receive $500,000 from the Helena Rubinstein Foundation. The landmarked three-story library is one of 65 built with funds from the industrialist Andrew Carnegie in 1901. The renovations are to include a new floor plan and an elevator. Construction is scheduled to begin in 2002. Tara Bahrampour (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: FORMER ART DEALER SENTENCED
Andrew Crispo, once a prominent art dealer, was sentenced yesterday to 85 months in federal prison for extortion. After serving three years in prison for tax evasion, Mr. Crispo declared bankruptcy in 1996. Prosecutors said that he became enraged at the handling of the bankruptcy case by Sandra E. Mayerson, a lawyer who advised the court-appointed bankruptcy trustee, and that he threatened to kidnap her daughter. Mr. Crispo was convicted and imprisoned last October. At yesterday's hearing, Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein of United States District Court also ordered Mr. Crispo to pay a $45,000 fine and $45,000 in restitution to Ms. Mayerson. John Sullivan (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: DROP IN UNEMPLOYMENT
Among the nation's largest cities, New York and Newark reported the steepest drops in unemployment over the last year, the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reported yesterday. In both cities, the jobless rate fell 1.2 percentage points, to 4.1 percent in Newark and to 5.4 percent in New York. But New York still has the third-highest unemployment rate among major metropolitan areas, after Los Angeles and Riverside, Calif. Leslie Eaton (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: PEDESTRIAN KILLED
A 25-year-old pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the Lower East Side early yesterday, the police said. They said the pedestrian, Val M. Kadievitch, a truck driver from Illinois, was returning to his parked truck about 4:30 a.m. after eating breakfast when he was struck by a truck near the intersection of Delancey and Ludlow Streets. He died shortly after he was taken to Beth Israel Medical Center. The driver of the truck that struck him fled, the police said. Elissa Gootman (NYT)
 
HAVERSTRAW: ROCKLAND-WESTCHESTER FERRY
Gov. George E. Pataki presided yesterday over the opening of a ferry service from Rockland County to Westchester County for Metro North connections to Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan. For $3 each way, commuters can take the ferry from Haverstraw to Ossining, where they can connect to express trains. The trip from Haverstraw to Grand Central, including the 25-minute boat ride across 2.5 miles of the Hudson River, is estimated to take 80 minutes, less time than travel by car or train alone. Regular morning and evening peak service is to begin on Tuesday. Al Baker (NYT)
 
FORT EDWARD: TOWN EVACUATED
About 800 residents were evacuated from their homes Tuesday night and 25 were treated at hospitals, mostly for respiratory problems, after a rail car began leaking ammonia vapor in Fort Edward, a town 43 miles northeast of Albany. Fire officials said some of the injured were children who suffered asthma symptoms triggered by ammonia vapors and stress. None of the injuries were thought to be serious. A 30,000-gallon tank from Canadian Terra International began leaking vapor, possibly because of a defective valve. (AP)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
NEWARK: RULING ON RUNWAY INCIDENT
The Federal Aviation Administration has determined that a July 19 incident in which an American TransAir plane crossed a runway on which a Continental aircraft had been cleared to take off was more than likely a pilot error and not the result of faulty directions by air traffic controllers. Arlene Salac, an F.A.A. spokeswoman, said yesterday that the incident would be reviewed by the agency's flight standards division, which has jurisdiction over the certification of pilots. Ronald Smothers (NYT)
 
MAHWAH: COLLEGE DELAYS OPENING
Ramapo College of New Jersey will delay the start of its fall semester because bacteria were discovered in the school's water supply. The college will pump large amounts of chlorine through its pipes and is advising people not to drink water from the system until the problem is cleared up. Classes originally scheduled to begin next Wednesday will instead begin on Sept. 11. The contamination was discovered after tests were conducted at the newly constructed Maple Hall. The college had no immediate explanation. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
WATERBURY: FUNERAL FOR SLAIN FIREFIGHTER
Hundreds of firefighters paid their last respects yesterday to Jaime Quinones, left, a 38-year-old Waterbury firefighter killed in a weekend shooting rampage. Wearing black bands across their badges, the firefighters lined the street outside the Immaculate Conception Church as Engine 10 carried the coffin of Mr. Quinones beneath crossed aerial ladders. Mr. Quinones was one of three people killed by a gunman, Mark Cote, on Saturday. Mr. Cote then killed himself. (AP)
 
HARTFORD: GOOD MARKS IN GUN SURVEY
Connecticut's gun-control laws are the strictest in the tristate region and among the strictest in the nation, according to a Washington-based advocacy group, Handgun Control Inc. In Connecticut, which got a grade of A-minus from the group, the police can get a warrant to seize guns from people deemed a threat. New York was rated B-plus, up from a B, because of new laws signed by Gov. George E. Pataki requiring trigger locks, new techniques to link fired bullets to the original handguns, and buyer background checks at gun shows. New Jersey received a B, as it did last year. The national average is C-minus. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN SULLIVAN DEALERSHIPS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FERRIES (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); TAX FRAUD (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LITIGATION (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CITIES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); ART DEALERS (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); STATISTICS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EXTORTION (69%); TAX LAW (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (67%); HIT & RUN (67%); TRUCK DRIVERS (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (62%); TRAINS (62%); 

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



732 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Report They Have Made Robot That Makes Its Own Robots

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
For the first time, computer scientists have created a robot that designs and builds other robots, almost entirely without human help.
In the short run, this advance could lead to a new industry of inexpensive robots customized for specific tasks. In the long run -- decades at least -- robots may one day be truly regarded as "artificial life," able to reproduce and evolve, building improved versions of themselves. 
 Such durable, adaptive robots, astronomers have suggested, could someday be sent into space to explore the galaxy or search for other life.
But the quest to create artificial life also revives concerns that computer scientists could eventually create a robotic species that would supplant biological life, including humans.
"Some things we probably can do we shouldn't do," said Bill Joy, chief scientist at Sun Microsystems, who wrote a recent article warning of the power of emerging technologies. "Just like we can kill things with DDT, but we shouldn't."
For now, the robotic manufacturing system -- a computer hooked up to a machine that builds plastic models -- in the laboratory of Dr. Jordan B. Pollack and Dr. Hod Lipson at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., cannot create anything nearly as complicated as itself. Instead, it produces eight-inch-long contraptions of plastic bars and ball joints.
When a motor and microchip are added, the automatons have one, and only one, ability: to crawl slowly. The fastest can scuttle along at a few inches a second.
"They look like toys," Dr. Pollack, a professor of computer science, said. But, he added, "They were not engineered by humans, and they were not manufactured by humans."
Dr. Pollack and Dr. Lipson, a research scientist, report their results in today's issue of the journal Nature.
"This is the first example of pretty much 100 percent automated evolution of a machine," said Dr. Philip Husbands, a professor of artificial intelligence at the University of Sussex in England. "It's a rather primitive example, but it's the first step to something that could be quite significant."
In the future, the technique could be used to design robots that assemble parts in factories, clean up chemical spills or vacuum a home.
Because computers cost much less than engineers, "It opens for the first time a more economical approach to robotics," Dr. Pollack said. "We can now essentially design for free and build for a few thousand dollars."
The cost of designing a robot today typically runs from hundreds of thousands of dollars to millions of dollars, Dr. Pollack said.
The computer in the Brandeis system had no idea what a successful design might look like. Instead, it was merely given a list of possible parts it could work with, the physical laws of gravity and friction, the goal of moving on a horizontal surface and a group of 200 randomly constructed, nonworking designs.
Mimicking biological evolution, the computer added, subtracted and changed pieces in the designs. At the same time, the computer similarly mutated the programming instructions for controlling the robot's movements. After each step, the computer ran simulations to test the designs, keeping the ones that moved well and discarding the failures.
After 300 to 600 generations of evolution and fine-tuning, the computer sent the design to a prototyping machine, used by manufacturers to build test models of product designs, to build the robot. Then, in the step that required human help, the researchers installed the robot's motor and microchip and downloaded the robot's programming instructions.
Changing the initial configuration of the robot parts produced a different design and a different approach to locomotion. One pushes itself along. "It's kind of like an accordion," Dr. Pollack said.
Another one "walks something like a crab," Dr. Lipson said. "It looks like it's crawling on the floor. It's quite surprising the diversity of solutions we get."
In earlier work, other researchers used similar evolution-inspired algorithms to evolve imaginary creatures that existed only in virtual computer worlds or to design the programming instructions.
The robots' evolution is currently a dead-end, as the designing computer never learns how well its designs work in the real world. The simple robots also have no ability to improve their performance. According to the researchers, the robots currently have the brainpower of bacteria. "We hope to get up to insect level within a couple of years," Dr. Pollack said. "There's no danger of Commander Data walking out of our fabricator anytime soon," he said, referring to the android character in "Star Trek."
In future research, the Brandeis researchers intend to add sensors to the robots and improve the design programs. Future robots may also be able to exchange information among one another and learn from each other's experiences.
As computer chips speed up and fabrication machines become more sophisticated, the robotic designers will produce robots that are more and more complex. Some have wondered what will happen when a robot can design and build something as complex as itself.
For example, Dr. Seth Shostak, an astronomer at the SETI Institute in Mountain View, Calif., has suggested that researchers listening for radio signals from alien civilizations are more likely to first come across intelligent machines created by aliens.
In an article in the April issue of Wired, Mr. Joy argued that scientists should perhaps deliberately steer themselves away from research that would create self-replicating, evolving, autonomous robots. With forethought, he said, computer scientists should be able to tap into most of the benefits of the emerging technology while avoiding the dangers.
"This doesn't have enough of the pieces to be by itself dangerous," Mr. Joy said about the Brandeis work.But, he added, "We're on the road to somewhere where there's big issues down the road."
Others working in the field are not as worried, even if technological advances make such devices possible. Dr. Ralph C. Merkle of the nanotechnology firm Zyvex and an adviser to the Foresight Institute, said that high costs would probably prevent the design of dangerous robots. Rather, robots would continue to be designed for specific tasks with little or no ability to evolve and adapt.
"It looks like having a device to work at all is hard," Dr. Merkle said. "There is no desire to add additional complexity. Those systems do not look like they would be dangerous."
The Brandeis researchers find the speculation premature. "Really, it's so far removed from anything dangerous," Dr. Lipson said about their work. "There are many other things to worry about before this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The "Arrow" left a trail as it crawled across a bed of sand. (Brandeis University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); ENGLAND (52%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); ENGLAND (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ROBOTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET SCIENCE NEWS (93%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (93%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); ROBOTICS (89%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH; POLLACK, JORDAN B (DR); LIPSON, HOD (DR) JORDAN B POLLACK (92%); HOD LIPSON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



733 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Off-Duty Police Driving Cabs? Taxi Panel Says Yes but Officers See an Insult

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

 BODY:
In an effort to build up the ranks of taxi drivers, the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission is considering a proposal to encourage police officers to moonlight behind the wheels of yellow cabs, but the plan is being greeted coldly by police officers.
Under the proposal, officers would be able to waive an 80-hour training course and a drug test that taxi drivers must take. Officials with the commission, which is scheduled to discuss the plan on Sept. 28, say the taxi industry proposed it as a way to deal with a driver shortage. They said police officers were an obvious choice, because they had completed driver training courses and were randomly tested for drug use. 
 But though many officers -- who say they are underpaid -- do hold down second jobs, many note that they already spend their days dealing with the public and patrolling the streets, not to mention fielding complaints from cabbies themselves.
"It just doesn't appeal to me," said Rick Lee, the community affairs officer of the First Precinct, in Lower Manhattan. "I think there should be other ways we should be compensated. We should maybe make a little better salary." He called the plan insulting.
"We're a pretty highly trained department," Officer Lee said. "It's kind of saying, 'Well, it might be all you're good for.' "
The taxi owners realize officers may not be interested, but they thought it was worth a try, said Diane McGrath-McKechnie, the chairwoman of the commission. "The economy is very, very strong right now, and they're having more difficulty than usual in recruiting drivers," she said.
She estimated that at any given time, 8 to 10 percent of the city's more than 12,000 medallions were unused, primarily because of the driver shortage.
The shortage is so acute, said the spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, Maureen Connelly, that some fleet operators are willing to lease taxis for shorter periods than the standard 12-hour shift.
"It's something that a police officer might want to do for four or six hours on a night or a day off, instead of working as a security guard," Ms. Connelly said.
The proposal, which was first reported yesterday in The New York Post, will be a hard sell. Some officers said that they were all too familiar with the woes and perils of cabby life. "People drunk, people not paying, people making a mess in the back of the cab," said Officer Thomas Reilly, 29, of the First Precinct. "I've seen a lot of cabdrivers. I see a lot of the problems they have."
Other officers said that after eight hours patrolling the streets and dealing with the public, the last thing they wanted was a part-time job that would put them back there.
"Guys here, if they work another job, they're going to go out and get another job that's not high stress, something that they like to do," said a longtime officer at the Fifth Precinct station house in Lower Manhattan.
An undercover officer called the proposal a "slap in the face," saying, "It's just an acknowledgment that we have to supplement the money we ain't making." He added, "Nobody's asking the bus drivers to take taxi jobs."
Taxi drivers' fraternal organizations blame the commission and what they describe as its unfair regulations for the driver shortage. The commission is "an agency that has completely lost touch with reality," said Biju Mathew, a member of the organizing committee of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance.
Mr. Mathew said that cabbies had been driven out of the profession in recent years, citing the system in which six points of traffic offenses during a 15-month period will cost a driver his license for a month, and the shortening of the grace period for license renewals. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (NYC) FIRST PRECINCT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (NYC) FIRST PRECINCT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; SHORTAGES; POLICE TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); DRUG TESTING (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CITIES (73%); DRIVER EDUCATION (58%); 

PERSON: GOOTMAN, ELISSA RICK LEE (64%); MAUREEN CONNELLY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



734 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: The Environment, and Our Votes

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Protecting the Earth" (editorial, Aug. 28): The discussion about global warming highlights the opportunity to protect the environment while strengthening the economy.
Those who suggest that reducing fossil fuel emissions will cause economic deprivation have it exactly wrong. The most cost-effective way of reducing such emissions is to use energy more efficiently. Doing so reduces costs, enhancing productivity and competitiveness. Global-warming remediation policies therefore become a tool to achieve sustainable economic growth. 
 Al Gore's proposals to increase energy efficiency and to promote nonpolluting renewable energy sources are deserving of universal support.
 
JAMES J. FLORIO
Metuchen, N.J., Aug. 29, 2000
 
The writer is the former governor of New Jersey.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); EARTH (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); EARTH (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; AIR POLLUTION; ENERGY AND POWER LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); WRITERS (86%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (85%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%); ELECTIONS (84%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); GOVERNORS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



735 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Bitter Primary Contest Hits Ethnic Nerve Among Blacks

SERIES: NEW YORK PRIMARY: 11th Congressional District

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
It is a primary race that has spawned a soap opera-like drama. The bitterness of a feud between two Democrats in the 11th Congressional District in Brooklyn has not only torn apart a longstanding friendship but has also delivered some of that anguish to the doorsteps of other politicians and voters in Brooklyn.
But it is also a contest that has brought to the surface simmering -- and often unspoken -- tension between black New Yorkers whose roots are in the United States and those with Caribbean heritage. In her campaign for Congress, Una Clarke, the Jamaican-born city councilwoman, has not only heralded her Caribbean roots in the campaign, but has also accused her old friend and mentor, United States Representative Major R. Owens, of being anti-immigrant. Mr. Owens, who was born in Memphis, has accused Ms. Clarke of trying to turn black Brooklynites against one another by using ethnic chauvinism to get votes. 
 As a result, theirs has not just been a political contest. It has represented a springboard for many to consider anew the relationship between two groups of black New Yorkers who often have their own share of prejudices against one another. At the same time, it has focused attention on the political impact of New York's growing Caribbean population.
"There has always been some degree of tension between African-Americans and Caribbean-Americans over the years," said Don Quinn Kelley, a professor of history at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn. "Color is the thing the two have in common. But there are misconceptions, and some degree of mistrust." And a campaign like the one between Mr. Owens and Ms. Clarke, he said, "causes people to focus on them again."
Some of that mistrust may come from a natural succession that has become part of the fabric of New York: the latest immigrant group encroaching on the territory of earlier groups. In this case, the wariness has been complicated by the fact that many American-born blacks in New York City have not had the same economic success that earlier groups of immigrants had.
"African-Americans have not translated their gains in the public sector in the way that the Jews or the Italians did," said Philip Kasinitz, a professor of sociology at the City University Graduate Center and author of the book "Caribbean New York." "So, when they face the same issues of ethnic succession, in this case by Caribbeans, it seems that there is more to lose. And that contributes to the tension."
For years, Mr. Owens and Ms. Clarke were the closest of friends. Mr. Owens, who was first elected to Congress 18 years ago, was a prominent benefactor to Ms. Clarke when she switched from a career as a child care administrator to elective politics a decade ago. They have worked on each other's campaigns. Their families socialized with each other over the years, and they attended family events and weddings together.
But with Ms. Clarke's decision to oppose her onetime mentor in the Democratic primary on Sept. 12, the relationship has dissolved into pure rancor. And while Mr. Owens has the advantage of incumbency and the support of most local officials, Ms. Clarke is well financed and could pose a tough challenge.
Today, they barely muster a nod when their paths cross on the campaign trail. "If we're both in the same place, I prefer to avoid her," Mr. Owens said in an interview last week. "If I can't avoid her, then I suppose I will at least say hello."
To Ms. Clarke, a 64-year-old legislator known for her sharp tongue and her championing of immigrant rights, Mr. Owens, also 64, is a tired congressman who has grown ineffective and disconnected. "It's not about friendship," she said. "Too much has been made of friendship. It's about leadership and effectiveness. I don't think he has kept up with the needs of the changing community."
Mr. Owens sees Ms. Clarke's challenge through a different lens. It is, he insists, spurred purely by her desire to cling to public office in the face of a term-limit law that prohibits her from running for re-election to the City Council.
"She has no reason to run against me," he said, "except for her interest in keeping a job. She has no platform. We agree on just about every issue."
In the midst of this clash are a number of Brooklyn Democrats with close ties to both officials who are uncomfortable about having to take sides and mournful that the congressman and the councilwoman are at war.
"This is a difficult thing to watch because many of us admire and respect both of them," said John L. Sampson, a state senator from the Canarsie section of Brooklyn, whose parents are African-American and Guyanese. "They used to work together on all kinds of things. But now, to see them attack each other, is like seeing a breach within a family. It's painful to see."
The campaign's tone has also been highly divisive, many Brooklyn politicians insist.
Mr. Owens says that by appealing to voters based on her Jamaican background, Ms. Clarke has crossed the line between ethnic pride and demagoguery. In a recent debate on New York 1, the cable news network, he likened those tactics to Hitler's.
Ms. Clarke said the congressman accused her of something she has never done. "I appeal to everyone in every community," she said. Ms. Clarke added that it was the congressman who was trying to place a wedge between citizens born here and those born overseas. The debate turned into a shouting match, with Ms. Clarke declaring repeatedly, "Major Owens, you're a liar."
The 11th Congressional District includes the neighborhoods of Flatbush and Brownsville and extends into Crown Heights, Prospect Heights and Park Slope. The population is about 55 percent black, with more than two-thirds of those being Caribbean blacks. The district is also about 25 percent white, which includes a significant population of Orthodox Jewish voters.
Most of the elected officials in central Brooklyn have endorsed Mr. Owens, saying that his seniority in Congress would place him in a position to be chairman of a committee or subcommittee, should the Democrats regain control of the House. Moreover, while many officials complain that the congressman's record has been unremarkable, they say he has nonetheless been effective and has roots deep in the community.
Mr. Owens was a commissioner of the city's antipoverty program when he entered elective politics, running for the State Senate in 1974. A reserved legislator, Mr. Owens often backed candidates who ran against officials supported by the traditional Democratic leadership in Brooklyn, making him a leader of a group of insurgents who, he said, needed a stronger voice in the politics of the borough.
And when Mr. Owens first ran for Congress in 1982 -- for the seat of the retiring incumbent, Shirley Chisholm, who was born in Brooklyn but got her early schooling in Barbados -- he won in a bitter and close contest with Vander L. Beatty, another state senator who was backed by the Democratic Party organization. He has not had a difficult race since.
He met Ms. Clarke in the 1980's, when she was a day care administrator who was becoming increasingly active in politics. When the City Council was being expanded, Mr. Owens pushed for the creation of a district that would include enough of the growing Caribbean community to make it possible for a West Indian Council member to be elected. He supported Ms. Clarke in her first, and ultimately successful, run for City Council, in 1991, over the candidate supported by the Democratic organization.
Mr. Owens is facing a formidable opponent in Ms. Clarke. She has been endorsed by Kenneth C. Fisher, a city councilman who is considered a leading candidate for Brooklyn borough president, and by Edward I. Koch, the former mayor. She has raised $188,000 for her campaign. And although Congressman Owens has raised $287,000, all her money has come from individuals, while more than half of Mr. Owens's contributions have come from political action committees.
(In her 1997 re-election campaign, Ms. Clarke was accused of campaign finance irregularities and is appealing a $48,000 fine.)
The congressman has taken great pains to portray Ms. Clarke as an ally of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, which is not considered a plus in this heavily Democratic district. He charges that Ms. Clarke has not been outspoken about incidents where police brutality was alleged, pointing out that he was arrested during civil disobedience activities while she had not been.
"I dare say that I will get far more Caribbean votes than she will," Mr. Owens said. "And I will get more Jewish votes, too. I haven't just started forging relationships in this community."
But Ms. Clarke suggests that she expects Caribbean and Jewish voters to respond favorably to her view on Mr. Owens's stewardship.
She denies his contention that she is motivated by term limits; rather, she calls it a sincere desire to improve the quality of representation in the district.
"When you ask people in the district to name a couple of things that the incumbent has done that demand his remaining, they are hard pressed," she said.
Furthermore, she said, she is saddened that so many people view the race in terms of the relationship she and Mr. Owens previously shared rather than the need for improved leadership.
"I wish people would not focus on that," she said of the erstwhile friendship. "After all, many people have been married 25 or 30 years and they go for a divorce and nobody says, shame on them." She added: "We had a political alliance. And the fact is, political alliances are just that and nothing more."
 
NEW YORK PRIMARY: 11th Congressional District
Articles in this series are examining individual primary contests in Congressional and local districts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: City Councilwoman Una Clarke is challenging Representative Major R. Owens, an 18-year congressman and formerly a close friend. The rift has also exposed tension between Caribbean-born and American-born blacks. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of New York City highlights the 11th District: Most of the black residents in the 11th District are Caribbean blacks. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; BLACKS; CARIBBEAN-AMERICANS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); HISTORY (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: CLARKE, UNA (COUNCILWOMAN); OWENS, MAJOR R (REPR) MAJOR R OWENS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



736 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Operator Sought for Rebuilt Brooklyn Rail Yard

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
After nearly two decades of planning, New York City and State have completed the $20 million modernization of an old freight yard in Brooklyn, and the city is seeking bidders to revive the cross-harbor rail freight traffic that had largely disappeared since its heyday a half century ago.
City officials hope that the return of a vibrant cross-harbor rail freight business will reduce the roadway congestion and pollution associated with heavy truck traffic, which now carries about 80 percent of the freight coming into the city. They also hope that the yard will foster the kind of growth in rail freight traffic that will help advance a proposed rail freight tunnel under New York Harbor that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has vigorously advocated. 
 With most of New York City cut off by water from the mainland United States, it has a paucity of direct rail freight links to the rest of the nation. Railroads now carry only 3 percent of the half-billion tons a year of freight that flows into the city, said Seth Kaye, executive vice president for transportation in the city's Economic Development Corporation.
"We view this as a catalyst toward rebuilding the market for rail freight in New York City," he said yesterday, adding that his agency anticipated that 10,000 or more rail cars a year could move through the rebuilt 65th Street Rail Yard in Bay Ridge.
Michael G. Carey, the agency's president, said putting a rail car float system into operation at the yard "could potentially divert approximately two million tons of freight a year from truck to rail and eliminate tons of air pollutants annually."
The only rail-freight float operation now operating in the city, that of the New York Cross Harbor Railroad, sent about 4,000 cars across the harbor last year, transporting them on rail barges between 51st Street in Sunset Park on the Brooklyn waterfront, and the Greenville yard in Jersey City. It is planning to float 6,000 cars this year, said Robert Bentley, president of New York Cross Harbor.
Mr. Bentley said that his rail line would bid to operate the 65th Street yard, and that his 16-year-old company was well suited to do so, given that it has experience in land-to-barge rail operations and has equipment for such an operation on the New Jersey side.
"We're obviously concerned," Mr. Bentley said of the possibility that other bidders might be selected to run the 65th Street Rail Yard. The 65th Street yard is not far from his yard, which is also on a city-owned site. Mr. Kaye said the 65th Street yard was much better, its modernization having recently been finished with the completion of two rail transfer bridges, gantry-like structures that move rail cars on and off barges.
Should New York Cross Harbor be selected to operate the 65th Street yard, it is not clear how many of the 10,000 or more cars the city hopes for at 65th Street would be above the number that New York Cross Harbor now handles. Mr. Bentley said New York Cross Harbor now transports cars by barge for the three major lines that carry rail freight into and out of the city: CSX, Norfolk Southern and Canadian Pacific.
In fact, those railroads would still be providing much, if not most, of the rail car traffic moving into and out of the city by barge, even if another operator were to be selected for the 65th Street yard. But Mr. Kaye said that the city viewed use of that yard as a catalyst to spur freight shippers and rail lines to increase rail car traffic across New York Harbor.
But whatever the growth of such traffic, it is not expected to come close to what it was in New York City's heyday of cross-harbor rail freight traffic. During World War II and into the 1960's, more than 100,000 rail cars a year were transported by barge into and out of the city.
"About half was through traffic," Mr. Bentley said, cars carrying freight destined not for New York City and its environs but for further land rail passage to areas like upstate New York and New England. A wave of railroad bankruptcies in the 1960's and 70's was among the reasons that the rail barge traffic in the harbor severely shrank.
The 65th Street yard has been unused since before the city bought it in 1982, with the intention of recapturing some of the lost traffic. But "the market wasn't ready for it," Mr. Kaye said, and city fiscal problems put off completion of the project. He also said the yard was a terminus of the Long Island Rail Road's Bay Ridge freight line, and the L.I.R.R. "didn't focus on rail freight."
For the last few years the New York & Atlantic Railway has been running freight service on the L.I.R.R.'s Bay Ridge tracks, and a year ago it became the first occupant of the 65th Street yard in many years under a short-term arrangement.
The city's effort to find a permanent yard operator began this week when it issued a request for proposals by potential operators. Operators also would be required to run nonbarge freight operations at the yard, including car rerouting and freight transfer between rail cars and trucks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Work at the 65th Street Rail Yard in Brooklyn included completion of two rail transfer bridges to move rail cars on and off the barges used to cross New York Harbor. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of New York shows location of New York Harbor: The city hopes to revive cross-harbor rail freight traffic. (pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: BAY RIDGE FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; ROADS AND TRAFFIC RAIL TRANSPORTATION (93%); RAIL FREIGHT (92%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIR POLLUTANTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



737 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: AMERICAN LEAGUE: ROUNDUP;
One Night After Brawl, Devil Rays Win Quietly

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
The Tampa Bay Devil Rays did not need any inside pitches to down the Boston Red Sox.
 Albie Lopez allowed only four hits in eight innings as the Devil Rays beat the Red Sox, 3-1, last night in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
 The victory came one day after the two teams were involved a beanball-filled contest that featured two bench-clearing brawls.
 "For me, it's just good to get a win," Lopez said. "I really wasn't concerned about that. I couldn't allow it to get in my head. It hurts them a lot more if we get a win."
 One day after being one-hit by Pedro Martinez, the Devil Rays had 11 hits against five Boston pitchers. Bobby Smith snapped an 0-for-21 slump with a run-scoring single in the third inning. The Red Sox were held hitless after Nomar Garciaparra opened the fourth with a single. Boston's Jeff Fassero was dropped from the rotation after allowing three runs and eight hits over three and one-third innings. He will be replaced by Pete Schourek.
 
WHITE SOX 8, ATHLETICS 3: Mike Sirotka pitched seven strong innings and Jose Valentin put Chicago in front with a two-run single in the seventh as the White Sox won in Oakland.
 Sirotka limited Oakland to two runs and six hits, including a solo homer by Eric Chavez in the fourth inning. The White Sox scored four times in the ninth to break open a tight game.
 
INDIANS 5, RANGERS 3: Kenny Lofton made up for a two-base error with three hits and three runs batted in as the Cleveland Indians strengthened their position in the American League wild-card race with a victory over host Texas.
 Dave Burba pitched six strong innings and Roberto Alomar drove in the tie-breaking run with a seventh-inning double for the Indians, who won their third straight and improved to 18-8 since Aug. 2.
 Cleveland moved one and one-half games ahead of Boston in the wild-card race.
 
ORIOLES 5, TIGERS 1: Jose Mercedes pitched a two-hitter for his first complete game since 1997 as Baltimore sent Detroit back under .500.
 Mercedes allowed only three baserunners in improving to 5-1 over his last seven starts. The Tigers, who started the season 9-23, have reached .500 three times this month. But they have failed on each occasion to rise above the break-even point.
 
ROYALS 8, TWINS 7: Mike Sweeney hit a three-run double off Mark Redman to give him 121 R.B.I., second most in Royals history, and host Kansas City held on in 100-degree heat.
 
TESTIMONY ENDS IN UMPIRES' GRIEVANCE: Testimony in a grievance hearing on behalf of 22 unemployed umpires has ended in Philadelphia, but a decision in the case is probably at least three months off.
 The 22 umpires, who lost their jobs last year after taking part in a mass-resignation strategy, contend they were wrongly let go in an attempt by Major League Baseball to break their union. Baseball has argued that it merely accepted their resignations.
 The grievance hearing concluded with testimony by a former A.L. official, Derek Irwin, and the lawyers Richie Phillips and Pat Campbell, who led the umpires' old union, the Major League Umpires Association.
 Campbell said each side has 60 days to file briefs before the independent arbitrator Alan Symonette. That means the 22 umpires probably won't know until November at the earliest whether they will win back their jobs.
 Baseball's lawyers were not immediately available to comment.
 The Major League Umpires Association is handling the grievance even though it was voted out last year and replaced by a new union, the World Umpires Association, in February. (Bloomberg News)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Sirotka allowed two runs on six hits against Oakland yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (78%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (77%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS; BOSTON RED SOX TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (83%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS; BOSTON RED SOX TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (83%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (78%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (77%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (77%); 

PERSON: PAT CAMPBELL (58%); JOSE MERCEDES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000



738 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1875 words

HEADLINE: The Mt. Everest Of Yard Sales

BYLINE: By FRANK DeCARO 

 BODY:
THE pin on Mimi Mannix's hat said it all. "Junk 'til you drop" it read, which is why Ms. Mannix -- "spelled like the detective," she said -- was outside the Strudel Haus in Covington, Ky., on a Thursday afternoon painting a giant pig. Like a multitude of less colorful people, Ms. Mannix, an Indiana collectibles dealer, and her capacious yellow porker, a mascot long ago rescued from the roof of a Piggly Wiggly grocery store, had come to this musty little town across the Ohio River from Cincinnati to shop.
"I'm selling, I'm buying, I'm doing my pig," Ms. Mannix said, dipping into a vat of pink enamel. "I'm having fun." Here at the northernmost tip of an annual event known as the 450-Mile Route 127 Corridor Sale, it was no wonder why. A banner spanning Main Street hailed, "Welcome to the start of the world's largest yard sale." On the reverse it said, "Welcome to the end of the world's largest yard sale." 
 Covington was the final destination if you started your journey at the other end, 450 miles away in Gadsden, Ala. Like everything about this multistate flea market, it was all in how you looked at it.
The Route 127 Corridor, as this scenically rich, economically underprivileged stretch is called, is not lined with Heywood Wakefield dining room sets and paved with lilac Fiesta Ware. But for a few very busy days every August, there is good junk as far as the eye can see. A 1966 Batman lunchbox for $50, a Shawnee Polynesian lady head vase for $40, a Continental Kilns Bali Hai vegetable bowl for $5, a set of Tiki spice shakers for $6, cartoon figurines from fast-food shops for a quarter. It is as if, for one long weekend a year, the 26th Street Flea Market extended from New York to Toronto.
For shoppers like my junking buddy, Chuck Hettinger, and me, longtime collectors who live by the words "Have Bubble Wrap, Will Travel," this was a four-day odyssey like no other. Although eBay and a plethora of guidebooks have inflated the prices of collectibles the world over, this rural flea market has not been completely spoiled by price-gouging dealers and pay-anything urban aficionados.
Trendy collectors -- the internationally known fashion designers, interior decorators and celebrities who frequent the flea markets of Manhattan or Pasadena, Calif. -- were not perusing Covington's card tables. Nor were they pawing the racks at Possum Trot Antiques in Pall Mall, Tenn., a day's drive away and one of the many antique stores dotting the route.
Instead, Possum Trot's Doris Doss was selling poodle-shaped liquor decanters and lunches of country ham, candied sweet potatoes with toasted marshmallows and slices of "Million Dollar Pie" to customers who came from as far away as Canada.
"What is 'Million Dollar Pie?' " I asked.
"It's delicious," Mrs. Doss said, her ad-libs as practiced as her baking.
Fueled by such artery-clogging foods -- not to mention Lee's Famous Fried Chicken, Dairy Queen Blizzard shakes and the home-cooked hamburgers and hot dogs sold from front-lawn barbecues -- we made our way along the mostly two-lane road that snaked through Kentucky and Tennessee. The slow-going drive continued into Georgia and Alabama. But after shopping for 12 hours a day for three days straight, we never made it past Chattanooga, Tenn. By then, we were just too junked out to go any farther than an antiques mall in East Ridge, Tenn.
Cruising past Baptist churches, double-wide trailers, bright green tobacco fields and solemn graveyards, we stopped our rented minivan every few minutes to browse through wares set out in the driveways of private homes, along sidewalks, in high school parking lots, in former chicken coops and on flatbed trailers parked in muddy fields. A pickup parked on the bank of the Ohio River near the Indiana border produced a 1950's tropical leaf-shaped dish from Hull pottery marked $35.
"Will you take $20?" I asked a man who had fashioned his T-shirt into a hat. "Make it $22, so my wife won't kill me," he replied.
Among the detritus of the 20th century -- from guns to gravy boats -- we perused pressed-glass pitchers, old Louis L'Amour paperbacks, Fire King mugs, Confederate flags, hubcaps and talking Pee-wee Herman dolls who uttered their last "I know you are, but what am I?" years ago. Empty Mrs. Butterworth's bottles shared tables with several decades' worth of Kentucky Derby glasses. Barbie dolls in hand-crocheted Southern belle dresses stood next to an unopened box of "Mork and Mindy" trading cards from the 1970's. Baby clothes cried out for a new generation of wearers.
There were some real finds on our trip -- a $10 box of Eva Zeisel Town and Country dishware that might fetch $500 on eBay, for instance. But a lot was the kind of stuff Housing Works would reject as too cruddy to sell in its New York City thrift shops. Still, the pleasure of the world's longest yard sale was in the hunt, the joy of uncovering that one coveted piece that made the trip spiritually, if not economically, worthwhile.
My accomplice in all this, Chuck, is a decorative painter whose collections include cookie jars, tin noisemakers and Lu-Ray Pastel dishes. For him, the holy grail was a three-foot-tall blown-glass bottle made by a company called Blenko in the early 1970's.
After looking through hundreds of thousands of items, we felt the junker's tingle in a scraggly crescent of grass and gravel with nothing else even remotely attractive for sale. There we found, lying on its side, the oversized decanter, a giant yellow vessel with its stopper still intact.
"How much is that big bottle?" I asked the man standing near it.
"Oh that's not for sale," he said. We hadn't come all this way to hear that.
"If it's not for sale, why is it here?" Chuck asked.
The man explained that he had bought the bottle that morning for $25, and didn't want to part with it. "I'll give you $50," Chuck said.
No thanks, the man replied. And on it went, $75, $100, finally $125.
That was the magic number. "I can't say no to making a hundred dollars," the man said. A few minutes later, I overheard one female shopper say to another, "That guy must know something if he's willing to spend that much for a bottle."
We both did. Chuck knew a similar Blenko bottle recently sold on eBay for close to $1,000. I knew I didn't want to be in that minivan if the guy had refused to sell it to Chuck.
Steals like that one, we've since been told, have gotten fewer and farther between as the sale has grown. "Four years ago, before eBay, there was a lot more collectible stuff for a quarter," said Ryan Lance, a proprietor of a store called Howdy Do on East Seventh Street in Manhattan, which sells campy pop culture items like "Cher's Dressing Room Play Set" and "H. R. Pufnstuf" coloring books.
Programs like "Antiques Roadshow" and published guides to all types of collectibles have helped to jack up prices, too, he said. "I saw a rusted-out, horrible old 'Charlie's Angels' lunchbox -- the handle was half melted -- and the lady had $95 on it," Mr. Lance said. "I asked her, 'Why is it this much?' and she said, 'That's what it books for.' "
His partner, Michael Torres, added, "People this year were much more aware of what they have in their homes and in their basements."
But at least one thing hasn't changed: The so-bad-it's-good aesthetic hasn't reached these parts yet. "The people down there don't appreciate black velvet paintings," Mr. Lance noted. "They're $3 apiece there and we can get $75 here. What's sad is that people probably took them down off their walls for the sale."
For those who live in these economically depressed environs -- particularly junk dealers, restaurant operators and motel owners -- the Route 127 sale is a significant source of income. "This is by far the biggest week of the year here," said Scott Sandman, executive director of the Jamestown, Tenn., Chamber of Commerce, which promotes the event. "There are sellers who make 8 or 10 thousand dollars in these four days," he said. The median household income in 1999 for Fentress County, Tenn., was $21,293.
As Mrs. Doss of Possum Trot Antiques said, "In four days, we do what we usually do in two months."
Debbie Barnett, who owns the County Line Antiques Mall in Lawrenceburg, Ky., said, "People buy for it all year long, box it up and store it until 127." She sees 50 to 100 customers on a typical day. During the sale, she estimated that 2,500 people a day browsed through her bric-a-brac. It is so busy, in fact, that she never leaves the store during the four-day yard sale, sleeping on a cot rather than going home to Lexington, which is a half-hour away.
"Last year we had people peeking in the door at 6:30 a.m.," she said. "And we stay open until they stop coming." That may be as late as midnight.
Started more than a dozen years ago, the giant yard sale has grown since the days when a former county executive named Mike Walker, a lawyer in Jamestown, came up with the idea of a crafts sale to lure tourists off the interstate. "The first year, we put out crafts and didn't sell anything," Mrs. Doss said. "But after that we put out junk and whatnot and it sold."
THE Route 127 Corridor Sale is no longer much of a secret. On June 14, HGTV, the home and garden cable channel, presented a one-hour documentary called "The Longest Yard Sale." "They aired that special on a Wednesday, and the next day, the phones wouldn't quit," Mr. Sandman said. "We had 400 calls."
One was from Allen Holladay, a machinist from Rock Island, Ill. He and his girlfriend, Lori Bitterman, a nursing instructor, had driven 750 miles from home when I caught up with them, near the Isaac Shelby Cemetery State Historic Site, seven miles northwest of Stanford, Ky. "We were sitting watching the Home and Garden network and heard about this," Mr. Holladay said. "We hadn't planned a vacation, so we decided to come here."
The couple were carting furniture home in a blue van with an open trailer attached. "It looks like the Beverly Hillbillies," he admitted.
For next summer, PBS plans to show "A Flea Market Documentary," another special featuring the Route 127 sale. At the Lake Cumberland Motel in Jamestown, Ky., Rick Sebak, a bearish television producer with a jovial demeanor, was conducting interviews for it. Mr. Sebak, who produced the critically lauded PBS specials "An Ice Cream Show" and "A Hot Dog Program," said that he and his crew "have been totally flabbergasted by it all."
"It's better than we expected," he said. "In rural Kentucky and Tennessee, there's still cool stuff left in people's houses."
Not for long, perhaps. But for now, the sale still has the feeling that around the next corner will be another Blenko bottle, another 60's lunchbox in fabulous condition and another woman painting a giant pig. When I think of Ms. Mannix back in Covington pointing to her hat, I laugh.
"See this button?" she asked. "It says, 'Don't pay department store prices.' I raised four kids on yard sales."
Then, as she had probably done at least a hundred times before, Ms. Mannix went into a story about the time she dressed the giant pig up as Zsa Zsa Gabor and took him to the Queen Kumquat Sashay in Orlando, Fla.
The story was free. No purchase required.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: OTHER PEOPLE'S JUNK -- Two finds: a lady head vase and a 1966 Batman lunchbox. Above, a little book-browsing. (Edward Keating/The New York Times; top and center, Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)(pg. F1); WHERE THE HUBCAPS ARE -- Some stands, like the one above in Danville, Ky., displayed toys, games, lunchboxes, doll carriages and old Coca-Cola cartons on neat shelves. The Fire King bowls and mugs, left, were stacked in Albany, Ky. For more utilitarian wares, right, in Lawrenceburg, Ky., any available piece of ground would do.; MINING -- Shoppers, some stopping at an elaborate setup in Crossville, Tenn., left, or driving by a makeshift stand nearby, below, traveled long distances seeking such finds as the Tiki spice shakers and mug, below, and Batman fast-food premiums, below left.; SPECIALISTS AND GENERALISTS -- Fans of Louis L'Amour had fat pickings at a stand in Covington, Ky., above. Other exhibitors, like one in Lee, Tenn., right, opted for a minimalist display. Below right, vintage 1950 Bali Hai vegetable bowl by Contemporary Kilns, on left, $5, and Santa Anita Flowers of Hawaii plate from the early 1960's, $4. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times; photographs without backgrounds, Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); HIMALAYAS (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOUNT EVEREST (74%); INDIANA, USA (72%); ALABAMA, USA (69%); OHIO, USA (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); HIMALAYAS (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOUNT EVEREST (74%); INDIANA, USA (72%); ALABAMA, USA (69%); OHIO, USA (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FLEA MARKETS ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); MAMMALS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); PORK (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (76%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (76%); MOUNTAINS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); INTERIOR DECORATING (64%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); 

PERSON: DECARO, FRANK MIMI MANNIX (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

 
