

401 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Stern Sends Players Holiday Letter of Different Sort

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE

 BODY:
In an attempt to portray the National Basketball Association as a good-faith bargainer and sway more than 400 players, Commissioner David Stern has mailed out a nine-page document detailing the owners' latest collective bargaining proposal to the union's membership.
The letter, sent Wednesday by overnight mail, complete with charts, graphs and explanations, seems a clear indication of how much the players and owners have become entrenched in their positions as they approach the new year without an agreement. 
 "As the 1998-99 season slips away from us, it is critical that I communicate directly to you," Stern wrote in the cover letter. "I recognize and respect your right to reject these proposals. However, it is important that there be no doubt that the precise terms you consider to be such a 'bad deal' that you would prefer to lose the entire season."
In outlining the general concessions made by the N.B.A., Stern said they were made in response to "your union's forceful assertion of your concerns." The league proposal included:
*No hard salary cap.
*The retention of the Larry Bird exception (a clause which enables teams to sign their own free agents for whatever they want).
*No immediate changes to free agency timing rules.
*A limit to the escrow tax that would be collected from players' paychecks.
Billy Hunter, the union executive director, dismissed the letter as evidence of frustration on the league's behalf and added that nothing the document contained was news to the players. The union issued a formal 16-page, point-by-point response late last night and said it would send the document by overnight mail for its players to receive today.
"I'm not too concerned about it, other than it hints that I haven't made a full disclosure to our membership," Hunter said. "Our players are fully aware of what their proposal is. It's another effort to try to sweat our players."
"As David said in the letter, with the serious risk of losing the season, we just wanted to make sure the players had our view of the situation," Russ Granik, the deputy commissioner, said in a telephone interview. "That's all there was behind it."
Despite the first two and half months of the season being lost to a lockout, no talks have been scheduled in the nearly sixth-month-old labor dispute -- a fight over the sharing of the league's $2 billion in annual revenue. Stern is leaving for his Colorado vacation home this weekend and may be gone for more than a week. Hunter, who was not scheduled to return to his home in Oakland, Calif., until Christmas Eve, moved up his travel plans by two days because of Stern's departure.
With the principal negotiators leaving New York for the holidays, it appeared that a bargaining session would not transpire until after Christmas.
Stern's letter was also released to the national news media yesterday. It contained a 12-point summary of the league's principal economic terms for a new deal, including details about maximum and minimum salaries, salary-cap exceptions, annual raises for players, changes to the rookie wage scale and length of a new deal, which is proposed at six years with an option for a seventh.
Most of the proposals have been released in some form over the past two months, but several changes to previous proposals were disclosed for the first time.
They included a maximum contract length of seven years for players who sign a Bird contract, an increase from six years. Players who don't sign Bird contracts could sign a deal for six years, up from five years, allowing a team to use the new "middle-class exception" to re-sign its own free agent, instead of limiting it to another team's free agent. Also allowed would be an increase in the maximum allowable raise, from 10 percent on Bird contracts and 5 percent on other contracts, to 12.5 percent on Bird contracts and 7.5 percent on other deals.
As for when the two sides would meet again and try to salvage the season, Hunter could not say. But playing down the personal rift between him and his counterpart, Hunter did say he had spoken to Stern by telephone yesterday.
"He called to say hello and see how I was doing," Hunter said. "He wanted to dispel the notion that he doesn't call me. He said he'll call again to wish me a Merry Christmas. I said I'd do the same and wish him a Happy Hanukkah. We're cordial and pleasant with one another. That's not the issue. The issue is, when does he want to make a deal?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Stern; Billy Hunter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); CHRISTMAS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (57%); 

PERSON: DAVID STERN (94%); LARRY BIRD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



402 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: ON TWO FRONTS: THE PRECEDENT;
A Snowy February, 1868: How a Distant Postwar Drama Played Out

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

 BODY:
When impeachment came, after long months of legislative stalemate and partisan struggle over how to rebuild the Union, it came swiftly. No long-winded preliminaries in committee hearings. No careful testing of the political waters back home.
Swept up in oratorical passion for the sanctity of the Constitution and the Republic, the House of Representatives debated for a scant 14 hours and then voted, for the only time in history, to impeach a President. 
 The President was Andrew Johnson, derided by his enemies as the "accidental President" who had taken office on Lincoln's assassination and who, they maintained, was bent on mocking the will of Congress. The date was Feb. 24, 1868, and the country was deeply divided over Reconstruction. With the House visitors' gallery packed to overflowing and a snowstorm raging outside, Johnson was impeached on a partisan vote of 126 to 47, with 12 members absent.
The ardor of that distant drama may well echo in the same hall today when the House convenes to debate whether to impeach President Clinton.
For Johnson, whose Senate trial began a month after impeachment, the process ended in acquittal, by only one vote. He served out the few months remaining in his term and even found a measure of accommodation with his accusers.
But the House debate, lofty and hackneyed by turns, gave no hint of that outcome. As the Congressional anger at him peaked that stormy week in February, a Washington correspondent for The New York Times wrote that "if anyone can believe what he sees with his own eyes and hears with his own ears, Mr. Johnson's term of office is likely soon to come to a miserable, mortifying and ignominious end."
Johnson, a pro-Union Democrat, had clashed with the Republican-controlled Congress ever since assuming office three years earlier. At its heart, their conflict was over how to treat the defeated Confederacy. It was a battle not only of ideology but also of politics: Democrats and Republicans alike hoped to win Southern votes in any postwar reunification.
Johnson favored leniency to the former rebels and a speedy return to civil government in the South. To undermine the Republicans' Reconstruction policy, which demanded that Southern states guarantee racial equality and voting rights for freed slaves before rejoining the Union, the President had begun purging military officers in the South who supported that approach.
The Republicans' radical wing twice tried to impeach him. The first effort failed to clear the House Judiciary Committee. The second made it to the House floor in December 1867 but was doomed by intraparty fighting.
Barely two months later, however, Johnson went further to challenge Congress than he had before: on Feb. 21, he discharged the Secretary of War, Edwin M. Stanton, an ally of Johnson's enemies.
The summary dismissal amounted to an invitation to a showdown, since it violated the Tenure of Office Act, which Congress, over the President's veto, had enacted the year before to limit his ability to remove Federal appointees.
Word of Stanton's dismissal set Washington afire. The ousted Secretary locked himself in his office overnight, and his Republican Congressional allies rallied to his side. When the House convened the next morning, members once again called for Johnson's impeachment. This time the proposal was referred not to the Judiciary Committee but to the Reconstruction Committee, which met behind closed doors for two hours and, after a party-line vote of 7 to 2, emerged with a recommendation for impeachment.
With barely a pause for breath, the House debate began, although the committee had not spelled out what high crimes and misdemeanors Johnson had committed. (Eleven articles of impeachment, with violation of the Tenure of Office Act as the centerpiece, were not written until after the House vote two days later.)
The debate now under way, James Brooks of New York City, leader of the House Democrats, compared the rush toward impeachment to the excesses of the French Revolution. Other Democrats gamely tried to focus the House's attention on the fact that it was the anniversary of George Washington's birth. One suggested that the House hear a reading of Washington's farewell address and then adjourn. The majority, laughing, agreed to the first proposal but rejected the second.
The House debated until 11:15 that night, a Saturday, and, after a one-day break, resumed at 10 A.M. on Monday, Feb. 24. People began lining up outside the Capitol at dawn, in the snow. Three thousand were allowed in to watch. Reporters estimated that at least three times that many were turned away.
As the debate continued, telegrams poured in and were read on the floor. The Republican Party of the City of Chicago demanded impeachment. The Democrats of the Fourth Ward in Philadelphia opposed it. The emotion of the day boiled over. One member accused Johnson of embracing the defeated Southern rebels, "men fresh from the halls of treason and the fields of blood." But another warned of a collapse of the currency and economic ruin if the President was impeached.
During it all, Johnson appeared unperturbed. He sent his private secretary to the Senate several times with routine messages. On Saturday and Sunday evenings, he played host at elegant White House dinners for Cabinet officers.
Impeachment drew the routinely split Republicans together as no issue had before. One of them, Representative James F. Wilson of Iowa, was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and had been roundly criticized for refusing to back impeachment in December. Now, rising in support of it, he said, "Guided by a sincere desire to pass this cup from our lips, determined not to drink it if escape were not cut off by the presence of a palpable duty, we at last find ourselves compelled to take its very dregs."
At 4:30 P.M., one of the fieriest of Johnson's foes, Thaddeus Stevens, rose to speak but found his voice too weak. The clerk read his written statement. It was the last speech before the fateful vote.
"This is not to be the temporary triumph of a political party," Stevens said, "but is to endure in its consequence until this whole continent shall be filled with a free, untrammeled people or shall be a nest of shrinking cowardly slaves."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Johnson, a pro-Union Democrat, was impeached by a Republican-controlled House bitterly split with him on Reconstruction policy. A month later, in this Senate chamber, the President's trial began. (Library of Congress/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ACQUITTAL (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



403 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: ON TWO FRONTS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
The Critics Now Ask: After Missiles, What?

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN

 BODY:
In 1991, the American-led attack on Iraq was perceived the world round as a wondrous demonstration of military skill. Almost eight years later, with Saddam Hussein unbowed, unrepentant and untamed, the high-tech bombings are generating far more questions than awe.
Even setting aside the unavoidable questions about the link between the bombings and impeachment, foreign policy experts are asking why the Administration has so forcefully changed its mind, after long arguing that dislodging Mr. Hussein could create a dangerous vacuum, or that serious bombing would endanger the task of Unscom, the United Nations inspectors charged with ending Iraq's development of weapons of mass destruction. 
 And the experts are asking exactly how the Administration intends to control Iraq's arms programs now that the inspectors have been withdrawn, and what it will do about President Hussein and his ambitions should he remain in power.
"I'm not from the school that says everyone is a liar, but they have not convinced me, nor people like me who follow this, why this makes sense now, and why it didn't before," said Leslie H. Gelb, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and a former columnist for The New York Times.
"They haven't convinced me that they can find or destroy the places where Saddam keeps the chemical and biological stuff, or that he can't rebuild it rather quickly. They haven't convinced me that this is better than having Unscom there."
Indeed, military officials said today that they had deliberately avoided bombing suspected biological and chemical weapons plants for fear of unleashing deadly poisons.
"I'm very happy to hit Saddam over the head," Mr. Gelb added. "But I want to know the answers."
Other experts argued that the new attacks represent not so much a change in policy as the latest reaction to a most formidable foreign-policy puzzle since the American-led alliance stopped short of toppling Mr. Hussein in 1991.
Since then, Mr. Hussein has succeeded in surviving, and in defying every turn of the economic and military screws, all the while strengthening his hold on power.
"Iraq policy may not be the most important one," said Phebe Marr, a fellow at the Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington. "Russia, China, the world economy are all much more important, but Iraq poses some incredibly difficult policy problems.
"There are no good answers in Iraq, only ones that are less good. At every turn we have to plot what course to take now. If we could get Unscom back in and could compel Saddam to comply, we'd all feel better. But that means Unscom has to be doing its job."
This week's attack was ordered after Richard Butler, the chief inspector, produced a scathing report that Iraq had failed to give the cooperation it had promised in November. It was that promise that prompted President Clinton to abort the attack planned then.
That pledge also insured that this time, the ante would have to be raised. With every successful defiance of international threats, force or demands, Mr. Hussein has insured that the next action would have to be tougher. Now at last the Administration has declared that one of its goals is to bring about his downfall.
The change is critical. However unpopular Mr. Hussein is, ousting him was never officially adopted as a goal by the Security Council, and there was a sense in the State Department and among some experts outside Government that without a viable alternative, his fall would create a chaotic power vacuum that could destabilize the Middle East.
Indeed, that argument stands. There is no indication that the fractured Iraqi opposition in exile is in any better shape today, nor that the Clinton Administration has been actively preparing it to take power.
Ahmed Chalabi, the leader of the main Iraqi opposition group, the Iraqi National Congress, said he had met three times over the past month with Martin Indyk, the Assistant Secretary of State for Near East Affairs. But Mr. Chalabi also said he learned about the current attacks only five hours before they began.
Nonetheless, the Administration has evidently concluded that whatever the consequences, they cannot be worse than Mr. Hussein.
This time, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright declared today, "we have come to the determination that the Iraqi people would benefit if they had a government that really represented them."
"We know that this is something that cannot be done overnight," she said, "and we are working with the various opposition groups on a longer-range way of trying to help them help themselves to have a regime that represents them."
Given the history of the past eight years, however, the question is whether air attacks, however severe, will pry Mr. Hussein loose without an operation on the ground, one that would inevitably entail casualties.
"Saddam's a disaster, but will this get rid of him?" asked William Quandt, a former National Security Council official under President Nixon and President Carter. "We know what we want, but we're not prepared to pay the price to do it. Bombing is the compromise choice that makes us feel better, that we're somehow punishing Iraq, though not necessarily Saddam, and we won't take any significant risks of casualties ourselves."
Politically, the bombings and the call for Mr. Hussein's overthrow already represent a major risk.
In the past, the Arabs have angrily contrasted the pressures on Mr. Hussein to what they perceive as lack of pressures on Israel to live by its obligations.
"This may feed the feeling, even unfairly, among Arabs -- and Europeans, too -- that this is domestically driven rather than by a desire to bring balance to the region," said Zbigniew Brzezinski, a former National Security Policy adviser to President Carter.
But the greatest challenge will come when the smoke clears, when the United States must decide what to do if Mr. Hussein is still in power, or if he is not.
If he remains, argues Robert Kagan, a senior associate with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, President Hussein could emerge greatly strengthened, putting pressure on the United States to take ever harsher action. And if he does not, the United States would have to commit a large force to support any new Government.
"This requires a very serious commitment of U.S. force," Mr. Kagan said, "to stay as long as it takes to establish a new democratic government."
Richard Murphy, a former Ambassador to Syria and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, asked: "Who knows what's in our interest after all that's happened in the past seven and a half years? We know that time has been inimical to our interests. As for the rest, we really have to keep an open mind for some time, until we get an accurate assessment of what damage has been done, both politically and on the ground."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Air traffic controllers on board the aircraft carrier Enterprise helped guide striking aircraft in and out of Iraq yesterday. Navy planes flying off the carrier in the Persian Gulf hit Iraqi air defense radars with missiles. A United States Navy warship launched a Tomahawk missile early yesterday during the attack on Iraq. The British military joined United States forces in heavy and sustained missile and bombing strikes. (Photographs by U.S Navy via Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



404 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Tampa Journal;
Party Animals Breathe Life Into a Long-Gone Area

BYLINE: By JIM CARRIER

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla.

 BODY:
By day, April is a mild-mannered accountant at J. C. Penney in a suburban mall. But three or four nights a week she becomes a party animal, driving into a seedy section of Tampa called Ybor City to hear a band at the Green Iguana or to plunk down $6 for "sink or swim," the all-you-can-drink evening at the Edge, or to watch cross-dressers perform at the Pleasure Dome.
"There's nothing, really, that you can't do here," April said one recent Saturday night as thousands of fellow drinkers and gawkers spilled in and out of 70 bars along a 10-block section of La Septima, or Seventh Avenue. "You can sit down and be totally entertained," she said. "I come here a lot." 
 Which explains why April did not want her last name published and why, after years of blight and failed urban redevelopment, Ybor City is attracting millions of dollars from investors.
A 20-screen movie complex, retail shops, a hotel, homes and chain restaurants have queued up behind the long lines of X-generation clubgoers who wait until 3 A.M. to get on techno dance floors fashioned in empty brick buildings left over from Ybor City's heyday as a cigar-manufacturing area.
"We went on a Friday night and there were 20,000 people -- you could feel the energy," said Jay Miller, executive vice president of Steiner & Associates of Miami, which will begin construction in January on a $50 million retail-movie project on Seventh Avenue.
In the wake of the young crowds, the City of Tampa is erecting a $12 million parking garage, lending $9 million to Steiner to lower its retail rents and building a two-mile, $23 million streetcar line to connect downtown Tampa to Ybor City. Private developers are adding $50 million in new construction.
The revival of Ybor (pronounced E-bore), which is named after Vincent-Martinez Ybor, a cigar baron who built a company town of 10,000 immigrants here in 1886, is based largely on liquor, city officials say. A decade ago, frustrated by the area's slide, the Tampa City Council removed zoning fees and rules, created tax credits and made the old business district a "wet zone," allowing a high number of bars.
There was no master plan, but when a struggling cafe called Carmine's tried staying open at night with a band and a bar, college students poured in. Suddenly, brick buildings colonized only by pigeons were converted to bars.
Since 1990, 150 new businesses employing 1,500 people have renovated 800,000 square feet of buildings, and club owners have invested $50 million of their own money, said Jack Rodriguez, who runs the Ybor City Development Corporation.
While nearly 40 percent is office space, it is the zany mix of Mediterranean bistros, Cuban sandwich shops and throbbing dance clubs spiced with cigar stores and tattoo parlors that has made Ybor City the nighttime playground for a 100-mile zone stretching from St. Petersburg to Orlando.
On Friday and Saturday nights, the police block cars from La Septima, allowing people to stroll beneath bright lights and security cameras.
Ybor City's success is striking when compared with Tampa's $200 million, 20-year effort to create life in its downtown and waterfront with publicly subsidized projects including a convention center and an aquarium.
Developers say three million people a year now drive downtown to events like hockey games. But, blocked by freeways and outsized structures, nobody stays to walk around, said John J. Twomey 3d of the Hogan Group, which hopes to change that with a $37 million "retail entertainment" zone just 1.5 miles from Ybor City.
As 1.5 million revelers stroll through the downtown every year, they may not be able to articulate it but they can sense the culture and the human scale, said Del Acosta, who administers the Barrio Latino Commission, an architectural review board.
"The ability to promenade 10 blocks, to see and be seen -- that's Main Street U.S.A.," he said.
Yes, there are problems with too many rowdy youths, skyrocketing rents, rising crime and lost historical detail. But Ybor City remains real entertainment, he said.
"I was having lunch at the Atomic Age Cafe yesterday," Mr. Acosta said. "In walked a very wealthy bank executive, a couple of kids with green hair and a guy looking for his next meal. You don't get that in a mall."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Music from the 1970's brought Matt Nichols and Debbie Woodley to their feet at Platforms Discotheque in the Ybor City neighborhood of Tampa. Thousands of young people flock to the area's bars on weekend nights. Crowds and investment money are pouring into Tampa's Ybor City section, a long blighted area that urban renewal failed to resuscitate. (Photographs by Bobby Sanchez for The New York Times)
 
Map of Tampa shows location of Ybor City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (99%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CUSTOM DECORATING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); TAMPA, FL, USA (99%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); SUBURBS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ZONING (72%); RETAILERS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



405 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
World Trade Body Is Struggling to Select Next Chief

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Diplomats from four countries are vying to become the next head of the World Trade Organization, the Geneva-based trade arbiter, amid global economic strains that are making the process particularly delicate.
A replacement is being sought for the current Director General, Renato Ruggiero, a former Italian trade minister who took over the top post in 1995. Mr. Ruggiero plans to leave at the end of his four-year term next spring, but the selection process is moving cautiously, even glacially. 
 Representatives of the 132 member countries met today to set new deadlines for the process, which is behind schedule. They have acknowledged that the original timetable, which called for a mid-December selection, will not be met, and have set the end of January as the new goal.
The wrangling stems from many factors. One is the fact that the member countries must make the decision by consensus, and right now even trading allies are feuding. The United States and the European Union, the world's trade giants, are distracted by skirmishing over banana imports. Asian countries are leaning toward protectionist measures to survive difficult economic times.
And member countries are not eager for a reprise of the bitter power struggle that kept Mr. Ruggiero's selection on hold for months. In return for accepting him, United States officials received a pledge that the next director general would not be European.
As a result, the four candidates are Roy MacLaren, 64, a former trade minister of Canada and ambassador to London; Hassan Abouyoub, 46, Morocco's trade envoy; Mike Moore, 49, a former Prime Minister and trade minister of New Zealand, and Suphachai Phanitchpaphak, 52, a Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand and a trade negotiator.
On the surface, the job is an international post with a six-figure salary, plush benefits, including a gorgeous view of Lake Geneva, a hefty entertainment allowance and a chauffeur-driven Lexus. But it is also a pivotal post if the World Trade Organization is to thrive. The new chief must be a successful evangelist, catalyst, peacemaker and administrator, among other qualifications.
It might also be helpful to have a good sense of humor, as Mr. Ruggiero found in October when he was hit in the face with a cream pie thrown by environmentalists who called him a turtle killer. They were protesting a ruling by the organization that many environmentalists say undercuts laws protecting endangered species.
Given such situations, the Japanese trade envoy, Yoichi Suzuki, said the next chief "must be capable of communicating in a clear and simple way what we are doing here."
To win the top spot, the four candidates have made obligatory visits to various capitals, and last month were vetted before assembled member states in Geneva. This gave less-developed countries a chance for firsthand questioning.
Since then, two top trade diplomats -- one from Brazil and one from Switzerland -- have been consulting with individual countries to rank the contenders and to find out if there are insurmountable objections to any of them.
Then a consensus has to be "built around one, but that promises to be a complex process," one trade representative said. Just how complex was not readily apparent until the two trade diplomats produced an interim report, reflecting support for Mr. Suphachai. The French and African countries rallied to the support of Mr. Abouyoub, who speaks French, and movement stalled until today's agreement to set a new end date.
The United States and the European Union have not declared a preference. But their views are paramount because they are involved in the largest number of cases before the organization.
"The current situation has probably made this a little more difficult," said Roderick Abbott, the European Commission's representative, referring to the banana dispute. He noted that European countries did "not have a single choice" so far, adding that the Europeans would have to consult with their American counterparts to avoid a replay of the 1995 selection tempest.
Thus far, United States officials have been unwilling to indicate any preferences. "We have said consistently that all four may be qualified, but we have not yet come to a conclusion," said Rita Hayes, the United States chief delegate to the World Trade Organization.
Divisions within the Clinton Administration have delayed the selection of a preferred candidate. United States officials also recall the last struggle to name a head of the organization, when Washington strongly backed the outgoing Mexican President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, only to see his candidacy crumble amid turmoil in Mexico's economy and within his family.
Selection of the new trade chief now will not be before next year, possibly close to Mr. Ruggiero's scheduled April departure.
Behind the scenes, developing countries -- about 80 percent of the group's members -- insist that it is time for one of theirs to head the agency. These nations say that the benefits of freer trade have not been fairly shared with them.
"It's our turn," Munir Akram, Pakistan's trade envoy, said. "We want somebody who can stand up to the big boys."
Also important are coming global trade negotiations, where agriculture will be a prime focus. Developing countries want trade restrictions dropped so they can more easily and widely export their commodities. Mr. Moore of New Zealand has advocated freer agricultural trade, and is unlikely to win support from Europeans, who heavily subsidize farmers. Mr. Suphachai of Thailand, whose country is also an exporter of agricultural goods, has similar views but is seen as less aggressive.
Mr. Suphachai, however, favors a two-tiered membership structure that would give developing countries a less strict set of criteria for qualifying for the organization. That approach is rejected by countries that have overcome protectionist domestic interests to win admission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION SICOME SA (66%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); LAKES (62%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (52%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); 

PERSON: OLSEN, ELIZABETH; RUGGIERO, RENATO (DIR GEN); MACLAREN, ROY; ABOUYOUB, HASSAN; MOORE, MIKE; SUPHACHAI PHANITCHPAPHAK (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) RENATO RUGGIERO (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



406 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Memo From Moscow;
Impeachment Over Sex? Try Genocide or Treason

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 18

 BODY:
If Russians are perplexed by the prospective impeachment of President Clinton over his testimony about extramarital sex -- and they are, to a man and woman -- perhaps they can be forgiven. Their own Parliament, you see, is trying to impeach President Boris N. Yeltsin over accusations of genocide, treason and abetting murder. And almost no one gives it a second thought.
Indeed, most people expect that the impeachment will still be lumbering down the constitutional garden path when Mr. Yeltsin wraps up his second term and leaves office in 2000. 
 Such is the yawning divide between impeachments, American and Russian-style. One is saturnalia; the other Saturn, ungodly big and going in circles. One is convulsing a nation; the other is so somnolent that legislators have been known to snooze through investigative hearings. One is extraordinarily partisan, but rooted, at least in part, in the democratic axiom that no one is above the law. Actually, so is the other.
"The most important result of the committee's work is not whether we have considered evidence of a crime in presidential acts," Yelena B. Mizulina, the deputy chairwoman of the impeachment committee in Russia's lower legislative chamber, the Duma, said in an interview this week. "It's that for the first time, a constitutional precedent is created.
"Those who occupy this post in the future will know that no matter how sophisticated the process is, it is quite realistic. They will have to control their actions."
Sophisticated is not the word most people might attach to the proceedings, Ms. Mizulina readily admits.
The Communist Party and its allies on the far right (in Russia, the Communists are the right-wingers) inspired and have managed the impeachment from its start in May.
Most accusations against Mr. Yeltsin read like a party manifesto: that he committed treason by signing the accord that dissolved the Soviet Union in 1991; that he stage-managed the decline of Russia's ragtag military forces; that he abetted murder when his troops put down an armed rebellion by the Communist-led Parliament in 1993; that he committed genocide by allowing living standards, and the average Russian's life span, to decline.
While many legislators resent Mr. Yeltsin's forceful quelling of the 1993 Parliament rebellion, not even the Communists who dominate the impeachment commission have seen fit to charge the President with manslaughter. Independent analysts dismiss the other charges as confections whipped up to give the Communists a platform for denouncing the Yeltsin Government.
Denounce they have, in regular Monday sessions that began in June and are supposed to end soon, but probably will not. Mr. Yeltsin has been called a clueless military strategist, a deserter of constitutional principle and a pawn of NATO and the United States.
The panel's most flagrant hothead, the Communist legislator Viktor Ilyukhin, stunned many last week by declaring, during hearings on the genocide charge, that fewer Russians would have perished under Mr. Yeltsin's rule had the President not surrounded himself with Jewish advisers.
The final accusation -- that Mr. Yeltsin exceeded his powers by waging a costly, failed war in Chechnya -- resonates more broadly across Parliament. Ms. Mazulina, a member of the pro-democracy, centrist Yabloko Party, supports the accusation. Were it to reach the floor in Parliament, it might even be adopted.
But for a raft of political and legal reasons, that seems unlikely. In the United States, President Clinton's impeachment would follow a relatively rapid, straight path to a Senate trial that would be presided over by the Chief Justice.
Not so in Russia: a vote in the Duma to impeach would first require a two-thirds majority of the chamber's 450 legislators. It would then have to pass muster in the nation's Supreme Court and its Constitutional Court. Only then would impeachment proceed to the more moderate upper legislative chamber, the Federation Council.
Most believe that will never happen. "You should read the Russian Constitution to realize that we will not have to deal with this matter," the chamber's Speaker, Yegor S. Stroyev, said last month.
Moreover, all of this assumes that the Duma genuinely wants to impeach Mr. Yeltsin, as the Communists insist. Most experts say the party is content simply to flog Mr. Yeltsin in public hearings and hope the economy continues to sour.
"They want to undermine presidential authority while waiting for 2000, when they'll win in elections because the situation will continue to deteriorate," Sergei A. Karaganov, a political analyst and head of the Moscow-based Institute of Europe, said in an interview.
Ms. Mazulina said that tactic would explain why the impeachment panel has spent months looking into "ridiculous" charges like genocide and why, now that its official work is approaching a close, some members want to tack on a new charge blaming Mr. Yeltsin for this year's economic collapse.
The tortuous process explains why Ms. Mazulina and some analysts express admiration for America's quick and comparatively clean method of Presidential removal, even as they assert that removing a Russian President for concealing adultery is unimaginable.
Well, almost unimaginable. Wrapped up in denouncing the United States for its attack on Iraq, the Communist Party leader, Gennadi A. Zyuganov, sputtered on Thursday that the bombings are inextricably tied "with the Yeltsin impeachment, with his relations with a certain lady."
Mr. Zyuganov stopped, then smiled.
"Clinton, of course. Clinton," he corrected himself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Boris N. Yeltsin is undergoing an impeachment process in Russia on charges of genocide, treason and abetting murder. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST PARTY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT IMPEACHMENT (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); TREASON (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); MURDER (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WOMEN (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



407 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: RUSSIA;
Public Anger In Moscow Is Tempered In Private

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Despite Moscow's anger over the bombing of Iraq, and the recall of its Ambassador from Washington, Russian officials' private conversations with Americans reflect a desire to take the edge off the acrimony, senior American officials said today.
Russian fury has been easing from its peak on Wednesday, the Americans said, with the most positive conversation yet occurring this morning between Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. 
 Mr. Ivanov repeated an invitation for Ms. Albright to come to Moscow, and she expects to go there toward the end of January, said her spokesman, James P. Rubin.
The conversation was "an extremely important exchange," Mr. Rubin said, adding that Mr. Ivanov emphasized "that the Russians understand the importance of maintaining a broad-based relationship with the United States."
A senior American official said later: "The Russians recognize that they need to keep good political and economic ties to the West, even if they are angry and embarrassed. And they won't risk all that for the sake of Iraq."
But in Moscow the Foreign Ministry emphasized Russian criticism of the Americans, and quoted Mr. Ivanov telling Ms. Albright: "If this action is not stopped, Russian-American relations can seriously suffer. Everything must be done to rule out a setback in our relations."
Mr. Ivanov also passed on a relatively conciliatory message from President Boris N. Yeltsin to President Clinton, officials said. On Thursday Mr. Clinton sent a letter to Mr. Yeltsin explaining the American and British decision to bomb Iraq and asking him to concentrate on areas of common interest, including Moscow's financial difficulties.
After discussion with the Russians on how Mr. Clinton might best contact Mr. Yeltsin, one official said, "Both sides felt right now that it was best to write a letter."
Also on Thursday, Vice President Al Gore telephoned Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov to explain the American position. When Mr. Primakov asked Mr. Gore to stop the bombing, Mr. Gore responded that the attacks would continue.
Hours later, Russia recalled its Ambassador, Yuli M. Vorontsov, who was due to retire soon in any event. Mr. Vorontsov left Washington today. The Russians simultaneously recalled their envoy to London.
The Russian recall was believed to be the first such action since 1979, when Washington recalled its Ambassador from Moscow because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and the Soviets recalled their Ambassador from Washington.
But given the tensions of the nuclear-tipped cold war, both sides considered it more important to retain diplomats in each other's capital than to give way to pique.
Discussions with Moscow about its budget and possible new loans from the International Monetary Fund are proceeding on a separate track, the officials said. They do not want to mix the two, one official said, and they do not want the Russians to think there is a crude economic price to pay for their opposition on Iraq.
The Russians will keep up loud, public criticism as long as the bombing continues, a senior American official said. "No one should be surprised by that, and we shouldn't overblow it," he said.
The official identified three reasons for Russian anger:
First, Moscow -- and Mr. Primakov personally -- have tried to be key players in resolving the crisis, but their efforts have failed, producing frustration. Mr. Primakov is an Iraq expert and knows its leaders well, including President Saddam Hussein. In November 1997 Mr. Primakov, then Foreign Minister, convinced Iraq to work with United Nations weapons inspectors, a deal that halted American plans to bomb Iraq.
But Mr. Hussein broke his promises to Mr. Primakov then, as he broke similar promises in February to Secretary General Kofi Annan.
Second, the Russians feel insulted that they were not consulted before the bombing began, and that the bombing in fact began in the middle of a Security Council debate on Iraq. While Washington says it consults Moscow, Russian officials complain that such consultations often have the humiliating feel of lectures.
(The Chinese and French sometimes complain of the same feeling, American officials admit.)
Third, Russian domestic politics demands a tough reaction when the American superpower takes nearly unilateral action against Russian wishes, whether in Iraq or in Bosnia.
As one official put it, "Events like this one can become a way for Russians to vent their frustrations about everything."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); COLD WAR (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



408 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4457 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT;
The Debate on Articles of Impeachment Against President Clinton

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the House debate today on article of impeachment against President Clinton, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency:
 
George Gekas
Republican of Pennsylvania
Mr. Speaker, members of the House, a loud lament has been heard about some deprivation of the right to vote one's conscience. But that is exactly why we are here today. And all of us in the ultimate must vote the ultimate sense of conscience. That's what this process is all about. We are facing indeed our moment of truth. 
 Now the moment of truth for the President of the United States first faced him in December of 1997. It faced him in the nature of a legal document, legal interrogatories that were forwarded to him in pursuit by the Paula Jones attorney of discovery proceedings in their case, a document laid before the President to be attested to under oath to answer certain questions. The President faced his moment of truth right there and then, the first item in the legal proceeding that have become the hallmark of these proceedings, and there, under oath, testified falsely. At that moment, he began the chain of events that led a month later to his appearance before the deposition lawyers and judge and farther down the line to the grand jury in August of that year.
But here's the important difference that members must take into account as they evaluate the evidence: the evidence is that when he signed these interrogatories, this first moment of truth to which I allude, there was not parsing of definitions. There was no argument among lawyers about meanings and definitions. There was no judge interpolating the opinion of the court into the argument of the judges -- of the lawyers. There was no parsing or mixing or evasion of types of definitions and words. This was a straight interrogatory, to which the President of the United States added perjurious and false answers. In a single moment in the Oval Office, or wherever he executed this set of interrogatories, he began the long chain of falsehoods that have led us to our moment of truth here today.
We must exercise that conscience to which all the members have alluded and recognize that when the President faced that moment of truth in countless occasions, each time he swept it away and caused himself the difficulty that he brings to our chamber here today. . . .
 
Ed Bryant
Republican of Tennessee
 I might add that I want to, again, honor the Constitution by what we do today. I think we all share that. And while the polls seem to show one thing, they also seem to show that many people would like this President to resign; in fact, a majority of the people polled. But we cannot govern this country by polls.
We have to be responsible today. It's not our job to create or invent solutions beyond the authority of this House. We must match our power with the authority that the Constitution gives us. And in light of that, I want to speak briefly and add on to what Mr. Gekas has said about Article II of the impeachment articles.
It is clear there is compelling testimony that, in addition to the interrogatories that were answered under oath by this President falsely, there was also testimony given that was false in the deposition that was taken after those interrogatories. On numerous occasions, the President lied under oath, and that's compelling evidence that this occurred.
And specifically, when his attorney brought up the false affidavit of Monica Lewinsky and said that the "sexual relationship" term referred to meant that there was "no sex of any kind in any manner, shape or form," the President sat silently, knowing that this false affidavit was being put into the sexual-harassment lawsuit.
He said that he was not paying attention. But any of those that have seen that deposition, see that he clearly -- . . .
 
Rick Boucher
Democrat of Virginia
 In its 1974 Watergate inquiry, the House Judiciary Committee conducted an exhaustive examination of the constitutional history of the impeachment power. Then, on a broad, bipartisan basis the committee adopted a report which eloquently states the constitutional standard for use by the House of Representatives of its impeachment power. In the committee's words, only that Presidential misconduct which is seriously incompatible with either the constitutional form and principles of our government or the proper performance of the constitutional duties of the office of the Presidency will justify impeachment.
The facts now before the House which arise from a personal relationship and the efforts to conceal it simply do not meet that standard. While the President's conduct was reprehensible, it did not threaten the nation. It did not undermine the constitutional form and principles of our government. It did not disable the proper functioning of the constitutional duties of the Presidential office. These facts simply do not meet the standard.
To misuse the impeachment power in this case, as some are now prepared to do, will create a national harm. The divisions on this subject which now exist within our society will harden and deepen. A rift and a divide will occur. There will be a polarization. The President and the Congress will be diverted from their urgent national business while prolonged proceedings take place in the Senate. There will be a lowering of the standard for future impeachments with an inherent weakening of the Presidential office. There will probably be instability in the financial markets with adverse effects for the economy. These harms are unnecessary. The President's conduct was deplorable, but it was not impeachable. The House today should censure the President for bringing dishonor on the Presidential office. That path will bring closure and a restoration of national dignity. . . .
 
Ike Skelton
Democrat of Missouri
 We find ourselves in a debate to impeach a commander in chief of the successors to those brave patriots of Bunker Hill and all who've served since then. Today we should have our men and our women who stand in harm's way in the Persian Gulf in our thoughts and in our prayers, rather than trying to politically decapitate their commander in chief.
What is a few days? Why the rush to judgment? Our being here reflects a lack of respect for all in uniform as well as their families. At such an attempt by my party to remove President Bush during the Persian Gulf conflict, I would have opposed it with all of my being. We must look at the proceeding today and seek the guidance of our Constitution. We must do so without emotion, for the more emotion, the less reason.
The framers of the United States Constitution knew that in an extreme case there would be a need to remove or overturn a popular election. They also knew that they must not make impeachment easy or routine. To maintain separation of powers, they set the bar of impeachment high and limited the grounds to impeachment. Initially, the framers made the great crimes of treason and bribery the only offenses worthy of impeachment. Later, at the Constitutional Convention, the standard was broadened to include "other high crimes and misdemeanors."
I've studied the phrase carefully. The word "other"is important because I believe it is crucial to our deliberations on impeachment. I have concluded that the correct legal interpretation and the intent of the framers of that document is that the general phrase "other high crimes and misdemeanors" must be limited to the kinds of class or things within the specific words "treason"and "bribery." . . .
 
John Lewis
Democrat of Georgia
 Mr. Speaker, I come before you to speak for the principle of democracy, the doctrine of fairness and the spirit of forgiveness.
America is sick. Her heart is heavy. Her soul is aching, and her spirit is low. Today our nation stands at a crossroad, at the intersection of participatory democracy and the politics of personal destruction. Today, my colleagues, you must choose, as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote, between community and chaos. You must choose the course of partisan destruction or national reconciliation.
We will in our lifetime never cast a more important vote. The spirit of history is upon us and the future of the republic before us. Our obligations as citizens of the state are as old as human history and as fresh as the morning dew: to righten wrong, do justice and love mercy. Our Constitution, that sacred document, is a covenant, a contract between the government and those who are governed.
We must not, we cannot ignore the will of the people. Almost 50 million people elected Bill Clinton as our President. In spite of his problems, his shortcomings and his failures, they, the people, elected Bill Clinton President of the United States, and they want him to remain the President of the United States. And yet some, some even in this chamber, have never accepted the verdict of the people. They have never accepted Bill Clinton as their President. Instead, they embark on a crusade of personal destruction.
Our Constitution was never intended to be used as a hammer to destroy our political enemies. . . .
Some of our colleagues have been too quick to pick up the hammer of impeachment and swing it with reckless abandon. So bent are they on the destruction of this President that they would knock down the very pillars which support our constitutional system.
What President Clinton did was wrong.About that, there can be no mistake. There is no disagreement, no debate.
But how, my colleagues, should we respond? How we respond, how we act says as much about us and our character as it does about his. Let he that has no sin cast the first stone. Who among us has not sinned? What the President did was wrong, but it simply does not rise to the height or sink to the depths of an impeachable offense. I know it. You know it. And most importantly, the American people know it. . . .
Mr. Speaker, will you write a chapter or be confined to a footnote? The spirit of history is upon us. . . .
Let us do what is right, let us do what is just, and love mercy. . . .
 
Robert C. Scott
Democrat of Virginia
 Mr. Speaker, impeachment is in the Constitution to protect our nation from a President who is subverting our constitutional form of government. Our authority to impeach is limited in the Constitution to findings of treason, bribery or other high crimes or misdemeanors. And we know from our hearings that treason, bribery or other high crimes or misdemeanors does not cover all felonies. In fact, it does not even cover a half-million dollar income tax fraud. That's the rule of law.
We cannot act unless there is treason, bribery and similar offenses, and so that's why historians and constitutional scholars have said that these allegations, even if they were true, do not constitute impeachable offenses; and that's why one historian warned that history will hunt down those who knowingly violate the Constitution when they vote for impeachment. That would be the case even if the allegations were true; but the support of the new, low standard for impeachment comes by way of contradictory, double hearsay and dubious inferences without a single witness.
In Watergate and every other prior impeachment, we heard witnesses. In this case, the accused has not even had an opportunity to cross-examine witnesses. In fact, the accused has never been told the specifics of the charges against him.
There is a reason why the specifics are not mentioned, and that's because the so-called perjurious statements constitute such immaterial minutiae that the supporters of impeachment resort to titles of offenses, such as perjury, without stating what the perjurious statements are.
Mr. Speaker, it is an outrage that we would attempt to overturn a national democratic election on these flimsy allegations, on the very day that our young men and women are risking their lives to protect a democratic form of government. . . .
 
John Conyers Jr.
Democrat of California
Ladies and gentlemen of this body, we are confronted with an overzealous and nonindependent counsel report combined with a totally politicized process in the committee, with party line votes on nearly every issue.
And so, I want to remind you that I am witnessing, in the most tragic event of my career in the Congress, in effect, a Republican coup d'etat in process. We are using the most powerful institutional tool available to this body, impeachment, in a highly partisan manner.
Impeachment was designed to rid this nation of traitors and tyrants, not attempts to cover up extramarital affairs. This resolution trivializes our most important tool to maintain democracy. It downgrades the impeachment power into a partisan weapon that can be used with future Presidents. Perhaps hopefully, we may never, ever use impeachment again after this experience.
Now, I'm personally outraged that we would decapitate the commander-in-chief at a time when we are at war abroad. Republicans sacrifice the national security by doing so. To be spending the time of this House to smear our commander-in-chief, when brave men and women are risking their lives for their country, shocks the conscience. The failure by the Republican majority to allow a censure alternative shows again the perversely partisan process this is. And I've been a member here for some time, and I cannot recall a single occasion when the Democrats denied the Republicans the ability to offer an alternative on a matter as momentous as this.
Our nation has been pushed to the edge of a constitutional cliff. We're about to inflict permanent damage on our Constitution, on our President, on the nation and ourselves. We should not be here today, and history will not look kindly on the partisan passions that have brought us to this point. . . .
 
Bob Barr
Republican of Georgia
Members of the House, today our Constitution stands in harm's way. The rule of law in America is under fire. The rule of law -- about which our chairman, Mr. Henry Hyde, spoke so eloquently just a few short moments ago -- the rule of law, which finds its highest and best embodiment in the absolute, the unshakable right each one of us has to walk into a courtroom and demand the righting of a wrong.
As President John F. Kennedy so eloquently put it, "Americans are free to disagree with the law, but not to disobey it. For a government of laws and not of men, no man, however prominent and powerful, no mob, however unruly or boisterous, is entitled to defy a court of law. If this country should ever reach the point where any man or group of men, by force or threat of force, could long defy the commands of our courts and our Constitution, then no law would stand free from doubt, no judge would be sure of his writ, and no citizen would be safe from its neighbors."
This, Mr. Speaker, is the fundamental American right, which President William Jefferson Clinton tried to deny a fellow citizen. How did he do it?
I direct the attention of every member of this body to the report of the Committee on the Judiciary to accompany House Resolution 611. I direct your specific attention to Article III, which lays out a case of obstruction of justice. Despite the fact that in the ears of a layperson, obstruction might conjure up a massive frontal assault, in the world of law -- and I know this as a former United States Attorney who directed the prosecution of a Republican member of this body for obstructing justice before a grand jury -- obstruction of justice is much more insidious, much more implied, much quieter, but nonetheless destructive of the rule of law in this country.
What is obstruction, and what was the pattern of obstruction in this case? I respectfully direct the attention of each member of this body to the United States Criminal Code, Title 18, to those several provisions which set forth the principle that no man, no citizen of this land, no visitor to this land, shall tamper with witnesses, seek to hide witnesses, seek to hide evidence in a case, or seek to change, modify or prevent testimony.
Yet, there is, in this report, and in the accompanying 60,000 pages of evidence to which Chairman Hyde alluded, evidence of a clear pattern of obstruction of justice in violation of Title 18 of the United States Code by this President.
Such things as making statements to his secretary, after he gave sworn testimony in an effort, a very clear effort, with no other purpose than to influence the testimony of his secretary, who most assuredly would have been and was called as a grand jury witness. Evidence, such as the President calling and directing one of the most powerful attorneys in this city, Mr. Vernon Jordan, after it was found out that Monica Lewinsky would indeed be and had been subpoenaed as a witness to appear before the court, and directed that she be found a job.
Evidence, such as the President, the commander-in-chief, as we have heard today, picking up a telephone at 2 A.M. in the morning, not by coincidence the very day that he found out that Ms. Lewinsky was indeed a named witness, and would be a witness in the court case of Paula Jones, and going over with her, to reaffirm in her mind the stories, the cover stories that they indeed had agreed to if just this calamity would befall them.
These, I submit to every member of this House, are obstruction. They are indeed a frontal assault on our Constitution. You have here today, in Article III alone, three legs of a stool, if I could borrow an analogy from the chairman of the Judiciary Committee. You have the Constitution. You have the United States Criminal Code, as violated by this President, and you have the evidence. They support a vote for Article III of impeachment of William Jefferson Clinton for obstructing justice in America. . . .
 
Sam Johnson
Republican of Texas
Gentlemen, you've heard the argument that our military forces are fighting. You know what they're fighting for? They're fighting to uphold the Constitution and the oath that we took and they took.
You know, when the President stands before God, puts his hand on the Bible and takes an oath to uphold the Constitution and lawfully carry out the duties of his office, he is promising to put the people and the nation before his own interests. I believe the President violated the laws and beliefs he swore to uphold. Instead of following the law, respecting American people's values and honoring his office, he chose to lie, cover up and evade the truth.
His actions have made a mockery of the people who fought for this country and are fighting for this nation today, the Constitution and the laws we live under. And because of the President's actions, Congress must act as dictated by the Constitution.
Mr. Hyde -- The gentleman has some familiarity with our military service. Did you serve in the Vietnam War?
Mr. Johnson -- Yes, sir -- and the Korean one, if you want to call it --
Mr. Hyde -- And the Korean War. How much time did you spend in a prison camp in Hanoi or in Vietnam?
Mr. Johnson -- Nearly seven years, sir.
Mr. Hyde -- How many?
Mr. Johnson -- Nearly seven years.
Mr. Hyde -- Seven years in a P.O.W. camp?
Mr. Johnson -- Yes.
Mr. Hyde -- In solitary?
Mr. Johnson -- Yes, sir, three years of that.
Mr. Hyde -- Well, I think you are qualified to talk about this military service. Thank you.
Mr. Johnson -- Well, I want to tell you that our military fighting men want the Congress to carry on their constitutional responsibility every day. That's why we are here.
You know, maybe we ought to be debating, right after this issue, how we support our military, and give them more arms and more people to make sure they can win that battle. We can't sacrifice what is right, to do what is easy.
You know, when I was a POW, we did some things that were tough to do. This is a tough thing to do. But it's the right thing to do, and I suggest we continue with this impeachment process. . . .
 
Charles E. Schumer
Democrat of New York
Mr. Speaker, my colleagues, these are my last moments as a member of the House that I honor and that I love. But this is a bittersweet day for me because a pall hangs over this House. Unless a miracle occurs, we will take one of the most serious and rare actions that this body can assume, and impeach the President against the overwhelming will of the American people. Voting against these articles will be my last act.
Since September, I have said what the President did was reprehensible and should be punished. I also argued that lying about an extramarital affair even under oath, does not rise to the level of "high crimes and misdemeanors," as spelled out in the Constitution, and that the proper punishment is censure, not impeachment.
But today, my colleagues, in my last day in the House that I cherish, I ask myself, "What has brought us to this day?" It would be easy for Democrats to lay the blame on a narrow band of right-wing zealots out to destroy Bill Clinton.
It would be convenient for Republicans to lay the blame squarely at the feet of the President for his behavior. But this goes much deeper than that.
What began 25 years ago with Watergate as a solemn and necessary process to force a President to adhere to the rule of law has grown beyond our control so that now we are routinely using criminal accusations and scandal to win the political battles and ideological differences we cannot settle at the ballot box. It has been used with reckless abandon by both parties, Democrats and Republicans. And we are now at a point where we risk, deeply risk, wounding the nation we all love.
We cannot disagree, it seems, we cannot forcefully advocate for our positions without trying to criminalize or at least dishonor our adversaries, often over matters having nothing to do with public trust. And it is hurting our country; it is marginalizing and polarizing this Congress.
I want to be clear: I am not pointing fingers at Republicans. The Democrats investigated John Tower for allegations not too dissimilar from allegations against the President. Congressman Gingrich led the investigation which brought down Speaker Wright, and Speaker Gingrich was investigated and brought down as well. The ledger between the two parties is pretty much even.
Today we are upping the ante. The President could be removed from office over a matter that most Americans feel doesn't come close to the level of high crimes and misdemeanors as written in our Constitution.
I expect history will show that we've lowered the bar on impeachment so much, we have broken the seal on this extreme penalty so cavalierly, that it will be used as a routine tool to fight political battles. My fear is that when a Republican wins the White House Democrats will demand payback. . . .
 
Randy (Duke) Cunningham
Republican of California
 When we talk about at a time like this our troops are fighting -- not once did I ever worry about what was going on in Congress. I worried about the strike mission, about where the SAM's were, where the AA was, about getting back to my carrier alive. They don't care what's going on here. They want this over, too. That's not a factor in this. Our men and women are fighting and dying.
I've got a friend named Bud Roach. He was flying a 25-year-old aircraft, an A-4 Skyhawk. His engine quit over Whiskey 291. It's a training area in San Diego. When he tried to eject, his seat didn't work. Do you have any idea what it's like to talk to his family?
Don't cut defense anymore. You want to support our troops. Don't cut defense with the Progressive Caucus that wants to cut it an additional 50 percent. Bolster our troops. . . .
 
Jerrold Nadler
Democrat of New York
 Mr. Speaker, the precedents show and the nation's leading scholars and historians overwhelmingly agree that impeachment is reserved under the Constitution only for abuses of Presidential power that undermine the structure or functioning of government or of constitutional liberty. It is not intended as a punishment for crimes but as a protection against a President who would abuse his powers to make himself a tyrant. That is why Benjamin Franklin called impeachment "a substitute for assassination."
We are told that perjury is as serious an offense as bribery, a per se impeachable offense. But bribery goes to the heart of the President's conduct of his constitutional duties. It converts his loyalties and efforts from promoting the welfare of the republic to promoting some other interest.
Perjury is a serious crime and, if provable, should be prosecuted in a court of law. But it may or may not involve the President's duties and performance in office.
 Perjury on a private matter, perjury regarding sex, is not a great and dangerous offense against the nation. It is not an abuse of uniquely Presidential power. It does not threaten our form of government. It is not an impeachable offense.
The effect of impeachment is to overturn the popular will of the voters. We must not overturn an election and remove a President from office except to defend our system of government, or our constitutional liberties, against a dire threat. And we must not do so without an overwhelming consensus of the American people.
There must never be a narrowly voted impeachment or an impeachment supported by one of our major political parties and opposed by the other. Such an impeachment will produce the divisiveness and bitterness in our politics for years to come and will call into question the very legitimacy of our political institutions.
The American people have heard the allegations against the President, and they overwhelmingly oppose impeaching him. They elected President Clinton; they still support him. We have no right to overturn the considered judgment of the American people.
Mr. Speaker, the case against the President has not been made. There is far from sufficient evidence to support the allegations. And the allegations, even if proven true, do not rise to the level of impeachable offenses.
Mr. Speaker, this is clearly a partisan railroad job. The same people who today tell us we must impeach the President for lying under oath, almost to a person, voted last year to re-elect the Speaker, who had just admitted lying to Congress in an official proceeding.
The American people are watching, and they will not forget. You may have the votes, you may have the muscle, but you do not have the legitimacy of a national consensus or of a constitutional imperative. This partisan coup d'etat will go down in infamy in the history of this nation. . . .

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ;BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); IMPEACHMENT IMPEACHMENT (92%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); ETHICS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); DEPOSITIONS (73%); PRETRIAL DISCOVERY (69%); GRAND JURY (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GEKAS, GEORGE W (REPR); BRYANT, ED (REPR); BOUCHER, FREDERICK (REPR); SKELTON, IKE (REPR); LEWIS, JOHN (REPR); SCOTT, ROBERT (REPR); CONYERS, JOHN JR (REPR); BARR, BOB (REPR); JOHNSON, SAM (REPR); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); CUNNINGHAM, RANDY (REPR); NADLER, JERROLD (REPR); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN CONYERS (73%); JOHN LEWIS (73%); IKE SKELTON (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); SAM JOHNSON (57%); RICK BOUCHER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



409 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
The Stars Come Out, If Only For a Night

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 18

 BODY:
They have been portrayed as self-centered, greedy and completely out of touch with their once-fawning public. And that is just the minimum-salary guys.
So Saturday night at the Atlantic City Convention Center, 16 locked-out National Basketball Association players will not only get to put on shorts and sneakers and dunk again, but they will also try to quell the backlash and recapture the interest of their apathetic followers. 
 "If there's a lesson in this, it's that players are going to definitely have to relate with the fans again," said Dominique Wilkins, one of 14 current or former N.B.A. All-Stars who will play in the game. "You look at baseball. Four years after the strike, it took Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa to generate that kind of interest. The N.B.A. is also going to have to make a conscious effort to win back support. You have to be sympathetic to what the average fan is about."
When plans for the game were announced earlier this month, organizers planned to use 90 percent of the proceeds to help cash-poor players. They later reversed course amid an avalanche of public criticism. Now they are calling this exhibition "a gift to the fans for the holidays."
But in many ways, the game may be a referendum on how the public perceives the players and their role in their economic fight with the owners.
"Initially we had other plans, but we came to see that all of the proceeds should go straight to charity," Alonzo Mourning said at a news conference today. "That would be best for everybody."
Tim Hardaway added: "Tomorrow night, I'm hopeful that the fans will come out and give us a standing ovation. It'll be hard to win the fans back, but people are starving out there to see basketball. They're going to welcome us back."
Billed as "The Game on Showtime," the event will be televised on the cable network at 9 P.M.
The game's organizer, Curtis Polk, said more than 8,000 tickets had already been sold, including blocks of tickets bought by corporations. If more than 10,000 of the 12,500 seats at the Convention Center are filled, the game -- announced only 12 days ago -- would exceed live-gate expectations.
Still, one ticket agent was quoted today in The Press of Atlantic City as saying only 574 tickets -- priced at $25, $50, $100, $200, $300 and $500 -- had been sold through his agency as of Thursday morning.
The agent Arn Tellem, who is co-promoting the game with David Falk, said about $700,000 from the game will be donated to Philadelphia-based charities. Unicef and Save the Children have been designated as the two national charities that will benefit.
It marks the first nationally televised game featuring N.B.A. players since June 16, when Michael Jordan stole Game 6 of the finals from the Utah Jazz and led the Bulls to their sixth title of the decade. Jordan, scheduled to play golf with Hale Irwin in the Lexus Challenge in La Quinta, Calif., Saturday, is not expected to attend.
Patrick Ewing, the union president, will lead the red team, along with Tim Hardaway, Shawn Kemp, Dan Majerle, Karl Malone, Reggie Miller, Mitch Richmond and Wilkins.
Mourning heads the white team, which includes Tom Gugliotta, Anfernee Hardaway, Allan Houston, Gary Payton, Glen Rice and Chris Webber.
As for risk of injury, the promoters have arranged for $20 million in disability insurance for each player.
The game features members of the last four teams selected to represent the United States in international competition. Charles Barkley will coach the red team and Oscar Robertson will coach the white team. It is Showtime's first basketball telecast since the depressing sight of Kareem Abdul-Jabbar eating up Julius Erving in a one-on-one game featuring two Hall of Famers several years past their primes. That game, Feb. 28, 1992, was also in Atlantic City.
Though N.B.A. players are competing, a league logo will be hard to find. Because of copyright infringements, the announcers for the game cannot use the term "N.B.A." or refer to the players as being from the "Knicks" or the "Heat."
But it is professionals playing basketball. And until the two sides can agree on a deal and salvage what is left of the season -- no meetings between the N.B.A. commissioner, David Stern, and the union chief, Billy Hunter, are scheduled for the weekend -- that is apparently enough for the players.
"We miss each other," Mourning said. "Our body clocks are going off. At this time of year, you need to play basketball again."
The players walked into the news conference at Planet Hollywood here today, sheepishly taking their seats and staying mum. They were guarded in their comments for the first 15 minutes, trying to shift any conversation away from the lockout. But as the questions became less serious, the talking and laughing began.
After one exchange between the veterans and several younger players, Reggie Miller chimed in, "The reason why we're here is because of the young guys."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shawn Kemp and Dominique Wilkins yesterday at a news conference for a charity basketball game. Fourteen All-Star players are set to tip off tonight in Atlantic City. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); TICKET SALES (75%); BASEBALL (72%); CHARITIES (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); TICKET AGENCIES (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



410 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
U.S. Sees Mixed Results After 3 Days of Strikes
The military campaign against Iraq continued for a third day. The Pentagon indicated that the approximately 300 cruise missiles and waves of bombers launched so far had severely damaged or destroyed only 18 of the 89 sites they hit. In Baghdad, President Saddam Hussein made his first televised address since the campaign began, calling his attackers "the agents of Satan." American planes dropped leaflets warning Iraqi ground troops that if they mobilized, they would be bombed. President Clinton is to meet today with advisers to discuss how long the air campaign will continue. A1 

Explosions shook central Baghdad for a third straight night, hours after President Hussein exhorted his people to continue their resistance. A8
 
More than half of the American strike aircraft based in the Persian Gulf region have been kept out of the attack on Iraq because of objections by Saudi Arabia, Western military officers said. Only those in Kuwait and Oman had joined in the campaign by this evening, the Western officers said. A9
 
Politicians talk about the long-range strategies for containing Iraq, and even overthrowing President Hussein, but the Pentagon views the air campaign in terms of keeping to a timetable. Before the first missiles fell in Iraq, the Pentagon had limited its attack to a sharp, swift assault lasting no more than a handful of days. A8
 
Moscow's private conversations with American officials reflect a desire to preserve and protect the United States-Russian relationship, despite Russia's anger over the bombing of Iraq and the recall of its Ambassador from Washington, senior American officials said. A9
 
China Reaffirms Politics
President Jiang Zemin made clear in a speech that China's economic reforms were not a prelude to Western-style multiparty democracy and that those who challenged the party's supremacy would be quashed. A6
 
Ulster Peace Given Boost
Leaders of Northern Ireland's Protestant majority and its Roman Catholic minority agreed to specific reforms that would give Catholics more power in the British province for the first time since Ireland was partitioned in 1922. A3
 
Serbs Vow New Crackdown
The body of a Serbian Mayor who had been shot between the eyes was found dumped along a roadside in Kosovo, leading a senior Yugoslav official to announce another security sweep aimed at ethnic Albanian rebels in the province. A3
 
An Around-the-World Attempt
A 160-foot-high balloon piloted by an all-star team of long-distance balloonists rose from its launching pad at Marrakesh, Morocco, to begin a voyage that the balloonists hoped would take them around the world in 10 days. A6
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A10-12; B1-10
 
Bitterly Divided House Debates Impeachment
The House debated the impeachment of President Clinton and set votes today on four articles of impeachment. Sharply partisan like all the others in recent months, the debate lasted through the day and into the evening. It took place as British and American warplanes rained bombs upon Iraq for the third night running. A1
 
Hillary Rodham Clinton broke weeks of silence on her husband's predicament, issuing an appeal "to end divisiveness." She planned a speech for this morning to summon House Democrats against impeachment. A1
 
House Democrats complained that some Republicans who were undecided on impeachment had been shown sealed documents that the Judiciary Committee got from the independent counsel's office. B2
 
The White House worked to tamp down anticipated pressure on the President to resign. B4
 
Republicans' standing with the public has dropped notably, a New York Times/CBS News Poll shows. A1
 
Robert L. Livingston, the incoming Speaker, took no public role in the debate. Larry Flynt, publisher of Hustler, said his magazine, whose investigating prodded Mr. Livingston to acknowledge extramarital affairs, would disclose similar relationships involving other Republicans. B3
 
Support for a Sweetener
A Government advisory group was said to have recommended that saccharin be removed from a list of suspected carcinogens. A10
 
At Least 8 Die in Capsizing
At least eight people died and nine were reported missing after a pleasure boat carrying 26 Cubans capsized near Miami. The Coast Guard described the incident as a probable case of immigrant smuggling. A11
 
Kidney No Longer Wanted
Renada Daniel-Patterson, 16, whose father, David Patterson, a prison inmate, offered to give her his remaining kidney so she could have a normal life, said she no longer needed it because God had healed her. The case has provoked ethical debate. A11
 
NEW YORK/REGION D1-5
 
3 Firemen Die in Effort To Get Woman Already Safe
Three New York City firefighters trying to rescue a 67-year-old woman from a top-floor apartment in Brooklyn were killed when a fireball engulfed them, officials said. The firefighters did not know that the woman had already been pulled to safety. D1
 
Caviar Smuggling Charged
Federal officials announced the indictment of three men accused of smuggling thousands of pounds of Russian sturgeon roe from Poland. Two of the men run a company that supplies caviar for retail and restaurant markets. D1
 
Charter-Schools Plan Assailed
The New York City Schools Chancellor criticized a charter-schools plan worked out in Albany, finding particular fault in provisions for financing and for licensing of the schools. D1
 
Criticism of Union Officials
The newly appointed trustee of District Council 37, Lee Saunders, lashed out at the union's top officials, saying they had engaged in large-scale, unrestrained spending. D3
 
NEEDIEST CASES D3
 
ARTS & IDEAS D7-18
 
SPORTS D19-26
 
OBITUARIES C16
 
Robert C. Johnston
A foundation engineer who spent almost half a century shaping Manhattan's skyline from below street level and its map from below the water line, he was 85. C16
 
Leonard Moos Rieser
A physicist who helped usher in the nuclear age with his work on the Manhattan Project and then crusaded to curb the arsenals it had spawned, he was 76. C16
 
Dave Williams
A golf coach who led the University of Houston to 16 N.C.A.A. championships, he was 80. C16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Nasdaq Sets a Record
Stocks rose, with the Nasdaq surging 42.26 points, or 2 percent, to a new high, 2,086.14, while the other major indexes rose modestly. Bond prices edged up while the dollar slipped. For the week, even with the attack on Iraq and the impeachment question, stocks rose, bond prices inched higher and the dollar gained against European currencies, although it fell against the yen. C1
 
Telecommunications Merger
Alltel, a telecommunications company based in Arkansas, said it had agreed to acquire Aliant Communications, a Midwestern telephone company, for $1.5 billion in stock. C1
 
Fedex and Pilots Settle
FDX, the parent of Federal Express, and its pilots' union reached a five-year labor agreement, subject to ratification by union members. The pilots, who earn $142,000 a year on average, would get a 17 percent raise over the length of the contract. C3
 
Restructuring Russian Debt
Russia's Finance Ministry clarified the terms for its restructuring of $13.5 billion in defaulted Treasury debt, indicating that some investors would get more cash than initially expected. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: The House comes to order; Albany's slapdash deals; restitution and the problem of stolen art; topics.
 
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge C18
 
Weather D23
 
Crossword D16

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MOROCCO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRELAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MOROCCO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRELAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); IMPEACHMENT (76%); SHOOTINGS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RELIGION (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



411 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE PUBLIC;
The Battle Finds a Small Community Split

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: RICHMOND HEIGHTS, Mo., Dec. 18

 BODY:
The guys sitting around the dinette tables at V.F.W. Post 3500 on Big Bend Boulevard, silently swirling their foam cups of beer, stared up at the eerie green picture on the television screen behind the bar. "Here we go again," someone said. There were flashes of white light in the night-vision sky over Baghdad and a sound like firecracker pops followed by deep rumbles.
"This is something we should have done months ago," said Vince Rankin, 83, who parachuted into France with the 82d Airborne Division on D-Day. "Remember that last time, when Clinton called it off? We should have done it then. We've got to get this job done." 
 The eight men waiting out the afternoon in the V.F.W. hall, while divided over the impeachment of President Clinton and deeply cynical about American politics in general, were united in their support for the attack on Iraq and convinced that its timing had nothing whatever to do with the President's political troubles.
Yes, they found it a little unseemly to have an impeachment debate at hand while American bombs were falling on the other side of the world, but they believed that the country would pull through it and that in the end the bizarre juxtaposition would have little effect on the outcome of either the impeachment battle or the Iraq crisis.
"They've been planning this thing for months," said Chuck Bailey, who served with the Air Force in Germany in the mid-1950's. "It just happened to fall at the time when they were taking up this impeachment issue."
William Germo, who worked on Mississippi River boats for 40 years and now tends bar at the post, said he thought the President should probably resign, adding, "He should have done it two, three months ago."
"But I don't think he planned this attack to put off impeachment," Mr. Germo said. "I don't think anybody can really believe that. Because look, if it was the plan, it's not working, is it?"
Richmond Heights is a small, economically and racially diverse suburb of some 10,000 people along the western edge of St. Louis. Spread across the second-highest hill in St. Louis County, it offers a sprawling view of the old river city. The houses, most of them built of blood-red brick from an old factory that once dominated the center of the town, run from tiny, $60,000 duplexes near the St. Louis city line to multimillion-dollar mansions on the west side, near the fancier suburban communities of Clayton and Ladue.
More than 30 interviews over two days earlier this week at seven locations around Richmond Heights found hardened attitudes on both sides of the impeachment question, along with a sense of powerlessness and inevitability about the partisanship of Washington. A subsequent trip, after the attacks on Iraq had begun, and two dozen fresh interviews at some of the same locations and some new ones, showed little change in attitudes over impeachment but wide support for the action against Saddam Hussein.
The great majority of those interviewed said they were willing to accept the President's assertion that the timing of the attacks had nothing to do with the impeachment inquiry.
"I just simply can't believe that an American President would do that," said Reg Hanson, a truck driver watching workers unload his tractor-trailer outside a Home Depot. "Even a liar like Bill Clinton. It just shows how far we've come that people are even asking the question."
Jeff Sipos, who tends bar at Mike Duffy's Pub and Grill, said that he had the television sets tuned to the air strikes on Wednesday night but that by Thursday he was tuning in and out, depending on what the customers seemed to want. "Everybody's first reaction was, 'Oh, right, it's a "Wag the Dog" thing,' " he said. All the scandal and bitter partisanship have given people a kind of natural inclination toward cynicism, he said, but on reflection this was too far, too dark, too cynical, to be believed. "I don't know," Mr. Sipos said, "I don't think they'd really do that. I just don't."
But others simply could not swallow the coincidence.
"I think the attacks on Iraq should have started a long time ago," said Greg Ward, a 38-year-old courier from south St. Louis who was filling his car with gasoline at a mini-mart on the edge of Richmond Heights. "But I guess I am a little skeptical about the whole timing and the impeachment thing. It does seem a bit too coincidental. I think it's all Clinton's way of stalling for time until he can figure out what to do next."
And Mr. Ward is opposed to impeachment. Those who want to get rid of the President had even harsher judgments.
"I was not a bit surprised when I heard we were bombing Iraq," said Lee Waldbart, owner of Alex Waldbart Florists, founded by his grandfather in 1872. "This is a President who would do anything he can to stay in office. You look at the stuff he's done, all the way back to Arkansas."
Yet just next door, at the Greek Athenian Importing Company, a small shop filled with cheeses and olives and baklava, Rebecca Taysi, the owner, said she had no doubt that the attacks started on Wednesday so that they would be finished before Sunday, the start of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month. Impeachment had nothing to do with it, she said.
"A lot of the workers I have are refugees from Bosnia, and I know what Ramadan means to Muslims," Ms. Taysi said. "If you have any contact with that religious community, you know why they timed it the way they did."
And she is angry that Republicans are using the timing as yet another club to batter the President. "I am extremely upset with this whole impeachment process," she said, "and I think it's completely political."
Bob Dressel, 41, who was doing some Christmas shopping at a Zany Brainy toy store just across from Home Depot, also thought it was political, and it made him sad. Once you start believing that everything is political, he said, you see improper motives everywhere.
"Now we've got this new Speaker, Bob Livingston, confessing to extramarital affairs that are none of our business," Mr. Dressel said. "I just don't want to think about it at Christmas."
Back at the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the impeachment debate was beginning to steal air time from the attacks over Baghdad, and the conversation drifted.
Eventually it hit upon the name given to the attacks, Operation Desert Fox. No one liked it, especially those who fought in World War II against the original Desert Fox, Field Marshal Erwin Rommel. Naming for the wily German tank commander an operation in which you are dropping bombs instead of confronting your enemy in ground combat is "an insult to Rommel," Mr. Bailey said, and there were murmurs of assent around the room.
Most everyone seemed to agree that military action against Iraq would never be decisive if limited to air power alone and that there was little political or popular will for anything more.
"We've been through this before with Saddam Hussein, how many times?" Mr. Rankin said. "So now we're doing it again. You know what that means?"
A voice chirped up from the other side of the room: "It means we're going to get a lot of new members!"
Mr. Rankin grimaced and chomped down on his cigar. "No," he said, "it means we're going to have to go through this over and over until we finish it, no matter who's President."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Were the air strikes politically timed? "I don't think they'd really do that," said Jeff Sipos, a bartender. "I just don't." (Mary Butkus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (77%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); US AIR FORCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); US AIR FORCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND HEIGHTS (MO); IRAQ; UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (79%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (77%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMPEACHMENT; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC ENERGY; PUBLIC OPINION IMPEACHMENT (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AIR FORCES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); SUBURBS (65%); ETHICS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LYMAN, RICK BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



412 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE FIRST FAMILY;
CLINTON REPORTED AS VERY TROUBLED

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Mindful as ever of his standing in history, President Clinton is said by associates to feel devastated about a scar he now regards as inevitable: impeachment on Saturday by the House of Representatives.
But at the same time, aides and friends of Mr. Clinton say, America's most tested political fighter has steeled himself for the battle of his life, believing that his opponents are acting out of partisan hatred, not constitutional duty. 
 Today his enduring ally, Hillary Rodham Clinton, once more rallied to his side. Breaking weeks of silence about her husband's predicament, she issued an appeal "to end divisiveness" and planned a last-minute speech on Saturday morning to summon House Democrats against impeachment.
In addition to calling upon Mrs. Clinton, the President is trying to enlist George Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader, to bolster his defense before the Senate, aides said. At the White House today, Mr. Clinton once again bore down on the budget priorities and other goals that he believes will sustain his public support.
"My goodness, how do you think he is?" expostulated one adviser to Mr. Clinton today. "This guy reads history books on every President. He can cite you details about every President. So on the one hand he's devastated about what this will do and has done for his legacy. But on the other hand, he looks at how it's being done as pure politics."
And politics is something that the Clintons understand. "I think the vast majority of Americans share my approval and pride in the job that the President's been doing for our country," Mrs. Clinton said, in an extremely rare response this morning to a reporter's question. She spoke on the South Portico of the White House, with the Capitol dome in the distance.
Marsha Berry, Mrs. Clinton's spokeswoman, said that the First Lady was invited by the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, to speak on Saturday because the Democrats "just want to show their support for her and the President."
In her comments this morning, Mrs. Clinton made a plea to turn attention to "people who need help and need support."
"There are still, you know, abused and neglected and foster children that are not getting well taken care of," she said. "There are still people with health care problems who need tending to."
But while Mrs. Clinton appealed for unity, elsewhere at the White House aides took up their cudgels. Anticipating calls for Mr. Clinton's resignation, Joseph Lockhart, the press secretary, accused Republicans of a "cynical, political strategy," to play down impeachment for weeks, and then argue now that it should prompt Mr. Clinton's resignation. He accused the Republicans of "not being straight with the American public."
Mr. Lockhart, a more pugnacious and sharper-tongued spokesman than his predecessor, Michael D. McCurry, came to his daily briefing today armed with a stack of quotations from Republican members of Congress to illustrate his point.
At his right, Mr. Lockhart's deputies sat beneath an advertisement torn from the newspaper and stuck with silver duct tape to the wall: "Forgive or Condemn?" it read. "Let him who is without sin cast the first vote."
On a crisp wintry day here, a sense less of history than of historic wrong, and of grievance, settled over the White House. Furious aides ridiculed Congressional Republicans as bent only on Mr. Clinton's destruction.
"I was wrong for 11 months," said Paul Begala, Mr. Clinton's counselor. "For 11 months I said this was all about sex, and I was wrong. It is all about power, and politics, and partisanship."
Mr. Clinton feels the same way, his associates said. "He bolsters himself that it's a political war being waged, that it has nothing to do with the morality of this, that it's the politics of trying to get rid of Bill Clinton," one adviser said. But, he added, "He doesn't sit around and wring his hands. He's more in the position of, 'Here's what we have to do.' "
Today, Mr. Clinton began his day with a briefing about the attack on Iraq from Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser. He also met one-on-one in his private study in the White House residence with Representative Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican who has said he is wavering on impeachment.
For two hours, Mr. Clinton then presided over grueling talks -- not about impeachment, but about trade in bananas and pens -- at a meeting with representatives of the European Union.
Later, Mr. Clinton held a meeting with aides to discuss a couple of dozen narrowly targeted tax cuts he might include in his next budget.
And this evening he sat down with his Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS. Mr. Clinton looked tired, though he told aides he had gotten seven hours of sleep Thursday night. He occasionally rubbed his eyes and fidgeted in his seat. But he joked about how hard it can be to get legislation passed.
People around Mr. Clinton no longer avoid mention of his troubles. When Bob Hattoy, a longtime aide, arrived late for the meeting, the President glanced at him and said, "I'm glad you're here."
"I'm glad you're here," Mr. Hattoy replied.
Maria Echaveste, the deputy chief of staff, said her colleagues were rallying round the President. "I think people recognize that this is extraordinarily difficult," she said. But that spurred them to work harder, she said, adding: "People have a lot of loyalty here. And they have a lot of faith in him."
In Vice President Al Gore's ceremonial office this evening, aides threw a surprise birthday party for Gene Sperling, the director of the National Economic Council. Mr. Gore, Mrs. Clinton, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other high-ranking officials came for what turned into a roast.
"Most of you are probably here not so much for Gene's birthday party as to hit him up for special budget projects," needled Mrs. Clinton, according to one aide who was present. She added, perhaps for the benefit of another guest, Alan Greenspan, the cfhairman of the Federal Reserve Board, "I have a simple answer to that: What's wrong with printing more money?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton defended the President yesterday, pleading for an end to divisiveness. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); IMPEACHMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOSTER CARE (60%); ETHICS (60%); CHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; MITCHELL, GEORGE J; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



413 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2258 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE OVERVIEW;
WITH PARTISAN RANCOR, A BITTER HOUSE DEBATES THE PRESIDENT'S IMPEACHMENT

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
For the first time since Feb. 24, 1868, three years after the United States emerged from an awful Civil War, the House of Representatives debated the impeachment of a President today.
It scheduled for Saturday votes on four articles of impeachment "for high crimes and misdemeanors" against William Jefferson Clinton. Although they protested bitterly and ardently, Democrats acknowledged that passage of at least one of them, and a Senate trial next year that could result in the President's removal from office, had finally become inevitable. 
 Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a Democrat who was badly beaten during the civil-rights demonstrations in the South during the 1960's, stilled the sometimes fractious House when he advised his colleagues, "The spirit of history is upon us and the fate of the Republic before us."
It was a grave and momentous day. For many, it was a grim day, without joy or satisfaction. Some of the participants said they were troubled that Congress seemed out of synch with the American people. Others "hated to get out of bed this morning," as Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d, Republican of Virginia, put it.
Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, the 74-year-old chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, sounded the Republican theme in his opening statement, asserting that "no man or woman, no matter how highly placed, no matter how effective a communicator, no matter how gifted a manipulator of opinion or winner of votes, can be above the law in a democracy."
Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the Democratic whip, called impeachment "a runaway train headed for a cliff." Representative Robert Wexler of Florida, another Democrat, raised the ugly specter of McCarthyism and demanded of the Republican majority, in a distinct echo of the Army-McCarthy hearings of 1954, "Have we no sense of decency?"
Sharply partisan like all the others in recent months, the debate lasted through the day, ending at precisely 10 P.M. It took place as British and American warplanes rained bombs upon Iraq for the third night running, and as Hillary Rodham Clinton rose to publicly defend her husband.
It came, too, in a coincidental conjunction that would have delighted Kafka, at the very height of the holiday season for both Christians and Jews, with festivities scheduled every night at the White House.
"I think the vast majority of Americans share my approval and pride in the job that the President's been doing for our country," Mrs. Clinton said on the White House lawn, with the dome of the Capitol, where the impeachment debate was under way, looming behind her.
She planned to go up to the Hill to speak to the Democratic caucus Saturday morning. White House aides said Mr. Clinton would address the nation after the impeachment votes.
Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat from upstate New York, urged Mr. Clinton to think about resignation if impeached. She said that "his usefulness would be lost in dealing with other nations." Representative William O. Lipinski of Illinois, another Democrat, spoke in the same vein.
Vote counters in both parties were unanimous late tonight in predicting that Mr. Clinton's foes had enough votes to impeach him and that Democrats had no chance with a parliamentary maneuver on Saturday to bring a censure motion to the floor to stave off impeachment. Democrats planned to march out of the chamber in protest after losing their censure move and to return for the impeachment vote.
The White House spokesman, Joe Lockhart, replied that the President would "absolutely not" consider resigning, and he launched a fresh attack on the Republicans on Capitol Hill, accusing Republican leaders of luring moderates into supporting impeachment by denigrating its ultimate importance. Mr. Clinton spent the day dealing with Iraq and the international economy and in meetings with foreign leaders, including Chancellor Viktor Klima of Austria.
While conceding that the President had committed reprehensible acts and made deceitful statements to cover them up, Democratic members of the House argued that his actions did not come close to warranting impeachment, that they should be given an opportunity to vote on censure as an alternative to impeachment -- an option the majority has denied them -- and that the debate should not be taking place during military action in Iraq.
"What the President did was wrong," said Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the dean of the House, who has represented a district near Detroit since 1955. "What we are doing is equally wrong -- an exercise in the abuse of power by the majority over the minority."
The House's only independent member, Representative Bernard Sanders of Vermont, decried the prospect of a vote "perhaps to paralyze our government as the Senate explores Bill Clinton's extramarital relations." He said that he had realized as never before "just how out of touch this institution is with the American people."
Republicans pressed resolutely forward with their accusations that Mr. Clinton had committed perjury, had obstructed justice and had abused his powers, all to conceal the truth about the Lewinsky affair.
One of the most dramatic interventions came from Representative Tom Campbell of California, a moderate Republican often criticized in his district for being insufficiently conservative. He said in a soft voice that he could never trust Mr. Clinton again -- indeed that he had been persuaded that the bombing campaign was legitimate only when Pentagon officials said it was.
"If it is in his interest not to tell the truth," the Californian said of Mr. Clinton, "he will not tell the truth."
Mr. Campbell's flawless legal pedigree -- son of a Federal judge, star student at the Harvard Law School, clerk to a Supreme Court justice, former professor at Stanford Law School -- lent weight to his words.
Another California Republican, Representative Frank Riggs, one of 41 departing members for whom Saturday's will be the final House votes of their careers, said he had talked on Wednesday to two prominent Republicans, former President Gerald R. Ford and former Senator Bob Dole, the 1996 Republican Presidential nominee. Both, Mr. Riggs reported, said that they would have voted to impeach. In an op-ed article in The New York Times on Oct. 4, Mr. Ford proposed that Mr. Clinton be rebuked in the well of the House.
What little suspense there was in the daylong debate came as some lawmakers who had been fence-sitters declared their intentions. Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, a New York Republican who had been wavering, said he would vote for at least one article of impeachment because he had concluded that Mr. Clinton's case "is no more about sex than Watergate was about a third-rate burglary."
But another Republican, Constance A. Morella of Maryland, said she would vote against impeachment. No matter what happens, she said, Mr. Clinton's legacy "shall be indelibly stained." Still another Republican who had been expected to oppose impeachment, Peter T. King of Long Island, said he would vote no.
A Democrat who had been leaning toward impeachment, Paul McHale of Pennsylvania, said he would indeed break ranks with his party and vote in favor of it. So did Charles Stenholm, a conservative Democrat from Texas.
Representative Ray LaHood, who comes from the quintessentially Middle American city of Peoria, Ill., presided over the debate, in which dozens of members participated. He urged decorum as speeches began at 9:29 A.M., but he had difficulty maintaining it, repeatedly pounding his gavel for order.
Mr. Hyde made a not entirely successful attempt to lend a sense of majesty to the occasion. He cited not only Roman law, Magna Carta and the Constitutional Convention, but also the Civil War, and the battles of Bunker Hill, Lexington and Concord.
For the most part, the debate was more a series of political set pieces rather than a clash of oratorical titans in the mold of Clay or Webster.
A low buzz hovered over the House chamber for most of the day, fed by whispered chats among members, ad hoc conferences, the rustle of turning newspaper pages and speeches practiced in stage whispers. A few times, hissing and hooting was heard.
Democrats bemoaned the lack of civility that has marked the entire process that has brought the President and nation to the current moment of crisis. Applause greeted a demand by Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, for an end to "the politics of slash and burn."
At the beginning, the public galleries were packed and almost all the House's 435 members were in their brown leather seats. But by midday, the chamber itself was half empty, as if all the drama had been wrung out of the debate. By late afternoon, only 38 members were there, though there were still lines of people waiting for gallery seats.
In backstairs conferences this morning, the two sides reached an agreement on the length of the debate and other rules, avoiding noisy public procedural squabbles that both decided they did not want.
The Republicans softened the prosecutorial tone they adopted in the Judiciary Committee's proceedings. But the Democrats' fury showed through.
Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said that he was witnessing "a Republican coup d'etat," and the same phrase was used by his party colleagues, Jerrold Nadler of New York and Maxine Waters of California. At another point, in a more analytical mood, Mr. Conyers stated one of the central Democratic contentions: "Impeachment was designed to rid this nation of traitors and tyrants, not attempts to cover up an extramarital affair."
Later, Representative Ike Skelton, Democrat of Missouri, said the Republicans wanted to "decapitate their Commander in Chief." Representative Steven R. Rothman, a New Jersey Democrat, complained of a "Republican juggernaut, driven by the right wing." Representative Patrick J. Kennedy, Democrat of Rhode Island, a nephew of the late President John F. Kennedy, spoke of "a political lynching," and Representative Danny K. Davis, an Illinois Democrat, denounced what he described as "a lynching."
Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., Democrat of Illinois, son of the civil rights leader, said impeachment constituted an attack not only on Mr. Clinton but also on the accomplishments of the New Deal, the Fair Deal and the Great Society. African-Americans, who benefited hugely from all of those programs, have been among the President's staunchest backers from the start.
"In 1868," Mr. Jackson said, referring to the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson, "it was about Reconstruction. In 1998, it's still about Reconstruction."
There were repeated references to the Johnson impeachment, which was voted upon in the same House chamber where today's debate took place, and to the Watergate case in 1974. Articles of impeachment never reached the full House on that occasion, because Richard M. Nixon concluded that his conviction in the Senate was certain and resigned the Presidency to avoid it.
"Some of my colleagues," said Representative Vic Fazio of California, a Democrat who is retiring, "obsess about Slick Willie in the same way that those on my side of aisle used to obsess about Tricky Dick."
Representative Brad Sherman, a California Democrat, brought up the House Judiciary Committee's decision in 1974 that suspicions about Richard Nixon's 1969 tax returns did not justify impeachment.
Mr. Sherman noted that a Republican Congressman who would one day be the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, had agreed in that instance that impeachment of a President was not warranted except for misconduct dangerous to the constitutional system.
But the continuing air assault on Iraq, which is code-named "Desert Fox," came up more often today than transgressions and crises from the past.
Some suggested that the Democrats saw a political opening in the Republicans' decision to stage the debate while the bombs were still falling. But some seemed genuinely offended; their views were crystallized on Thursday night by Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, who served in the Korean War.
"You can't separate the President from the Commander in Chief," said Mr. Rangel. "You can't salute him in the morning and impeach him in the afternoon."
For the Republicans, Representative Sam Johnson of Texas, who spent seven years in a North Vietnamese prisoner-of-war camp, made this retort: "Our military fighting men want the Congress to carry on our responsibilities every day."
A potentially volatile ingredient was injected into the political equation by the Thursday evening confession of marital infidelity by Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, the Speaker-designate. But there were only a few veiled allusions to his difficulties during the debate, all from the Democrats.
Officially, the item under debate today was House Resolution 611.
As read out this morning in a somber voice by the House reading clerk, Paul Hays, it began "Resolved, that William Jefferson Clinton, President of the United States, is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors," and went on to accuse Mr. Clinton of perjury before a grand jury and in the Paula Jones lawsuit, of obstructing justice in a variety of ways, and of abusing his power by lying to and misleading Congress in his answers to 81 questions posed by the House Judiciary Committee.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry J. Hyde, opening the debate, sounded the Republican theme of the rule of law (C-Span); the President spent the day on Iraq and other matters. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); The impeachment debate was discussed early and late yesterday. On the subway to the Capitol were Alcee L. Hastings, left, Democrat of Florida, and Abbe D. Lowell, the Judiciary Committee's Democratic counsel. At the Rayburn House Office Building's entrance to the subway, Representative Jay Dickey, Republican of Arkansas, left, talked with J. C. Watts Jr. of Oklahoma, chairman of the Republican Conference. With the debate under way, Representative William L. Clay, Democrat of Missouri, met in the Capitol with Representative Louis Stokes, Democrat of Ohio, a former chairman of the House ethics committee. (Photographs by PAUL HOSEFROS/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF VIRGINIA (67%); WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF VIRGINIA (67%); WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; PERJURY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); ETHICS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); DISMISSALS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; HYDE, HENRY J (REPR) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); WILLIAM LACY CLAY JR (77%); ALCEE L HASTINGS (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); ROBERT WEXLER (58%); TOM DAVIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



414 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Major Importer Is Accused of Smuggling Caviar

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL 

 BODY:
Uncovering what it called a caviar smuggling scheme worth millions of dollars, the Federal Government yesterday indicted three men, two of whom run a distributing company that supplies caviar to retail shops and restaurants in New York City, as well as throughout the country.
The distributors, based in Stamford, Conn., were charged in Federal District Court in Brooklyn with illegally smuggling thousands of pounds of Russian sturgeon roe into the United States from Poland. The indictment accuses the company, Gino International, of transporting some of the supply by hiding it in luggage on many commercial flights from Poland to Kennedy International Airport. 
 None of the caviar was refrigerated, the authorities said, nor could proper papers for the caviar be produced. The Government would not disclose the names of retailers or restaurants that buy caviar from the company, only that it was one of the largest distributors in the area.
The Government seized some of the caviar at Kennedy, where Federal agents and inspectors have been enforcing tough new international caviar regulations intended to stop the flow of illegally harvested caviar.
The operation at the airport has intensified over the holiday season -- the peak time to indulge in caviar -- and has roiled the lucrative caviar industry. Until recently, it was not difficult to import mislabeled, old, previously frozen or black-market caviar into the United States. The Government says such caviar amounts to 50 percent of the trade.
But now, agents from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service who are enforcing the regulations can easily test the DNA of a single egg, revealing whether caviar is, in fact, the grade, provenance and variety promised on its label.
Locally, retailers and chefs are scrambling to destroy questionable caviar and replenish their holiday stocks. Industry sources say that more than nine tons of caviar is sold in the city between Thanksgiving and New Year's Eve, and up to $10 million is spent on the delicacy.
In yesterday's indictment, Zachary W. Carter, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, brought charges against Eugeniusz Koczuk, the owner of Gino International; his business associate, Wieslaw Rozbicki, and Andrezej Lepkowski, of Warsaw, Poland, a man the Government said recruited couriers to smuggle the caviar. Each man was charged with seven counts related to smuggling endangered wildlife into the country.
If convicted, each could face a fine of as much as $250,000 and a maximum of five years in prison on each count. In addition to destroying the 2,000 pounds of unlawfully imported caviar they seized, the Government is requesting up to $2 million in restitution for sales of illegal caviar before the seizure. All three were released on bonds.
Leaving the courthouse, Mr. Koczuk, speaking through a translator, would say only: "This is all a big misunderstanding that will be made clear soon."
Last April, the United States joined 140 other nations to enforce caviar importing regulations drafted by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, called Cites (pronounced SIGHT-ease).
Mr. Carter said that the United States is the world's leading importer of caviar. More than 80 tons of caviar -- with a declared wholesale value of $1,889,911 and a retail value of as much as to five times that much -- is legally imported into the United States each year.
Uncounted additional tons are concealed in suitcases, packed in shipping containers, or shipped through the mail without permits and are most likely black-market products. Throughout the caviar industry, a markup of 100 percent is not uncommon. Black market caviar can be marked up by suppliers as much as 500 percent -- and still cost less than legitimately imported caviar.
Most retailers responded to questions about yesterday's indictments with shock, fear and rage.
"It's a terribly unfortunate thing when people do things like this," said Saul Zabar of Zabar's, whose Upper West Side store has long waged holiday caviar price wars with Macy's. He said his store has taken "every action to protect the public."
According to the indictment, millions of illegal fish eggs have been smuggled into the country. Recovering them all evokes visions of needles in haystacks.
On numerous occasions, the indictment says, the three defendants conspired to smuggle shipments of caviar by concealing them in the luggage of airline passengers, whom they paid a $500 courier fee. None of the passengers have been charged.
Gino International is accused of having sold 19,000 pounds of caviar -- with a retail value of more than $8 million -- between April 1 and Nov. 3, 1998, but it received Government permission to import only one shipment of 88 pounds of caviar, the indictment says.
One thousand pounds of the smuggled caviar was seized by the agents at Kennedy, and 1,000 pounds of the unrefrigerated caviar was seized from Mr. Koczuk's garage in Stamford, the indictment says.
While frozen caviar can have a shelf life of up to two years, fresh caviar begins to deteriorate within a week if not properly refrigerated.
Many caviar dealers say that before the Cites regulations, tons of black-market caviar were imported. "That is what explains the glut of cheap caviar we are seeing," said Hossein Aimani, the president of Paramount Caviar, an importing company in Manhattan.
Traditionally, some caviar traders routinely mix grades of caviar, combine frozen with fresh caviar and employ numerous other schemes to increase their profits.
But now, according to the Fish and Wildlife Service, a DNA test can reveal such scams. If one egg in a shipment of a ton does not match its accompanying paperwork, the shipment will be seized and destroyed.
Already, some caviar importers are railing against enforcement of the regulations. Eric Sobol, the chief executive of Madison Avenue Caviarteria, an importing company based in Long Island City, Queens, with two retail outlets in Manhattan, said he was challenging the impoundment of one of his shipments in a civil case.
A magistrate recommended in favor of Mr. Sobol last Friday. The Government is challenging that recommendation. A judge's ruling is expected by Thursday.
Meanwhile, with six shopping days left until Christmas, caviar shipments continue to land in New York. And Federal investigators continue investigating them, egg by egg.
 
Tips for Finding the Freshest Caviar
 A consumer's best protection against buying mishandled caviar is shopping at a trusted retailer.
If the retailer cannot provide copies of the import permit for the caviar it is selling, it is possible that the caviar was imported before regulations requiring such permits went into effect. At the very least, such caviar will be old, and more than likely it will have been frozen before it was imported. If it is no longer frozen, it will have a shelf life of less than two weeks.
While there is very little correlation between price and quality of caviar this year, very inexpensive caviar was almost certainly imported before new import regulations went into effect. High prices alone do not guarantee impeccable caviar, but in tandem with a reliable and well-established dealer, they usually do.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Caviar confiscated as a result of tough enforcement of new international regulations intended to stop the flow of illegally harvested eggs. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: GINO INTERNATIONAL GINO INTERNATIONAL (61%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (54%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GINO INTERNATIONAL US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (54%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; CAVIAR; STURGEON (FISH); SMUGGLING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FISHES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); MARINE PRODUCTS GATHERING (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); BAIL (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); FOOD MISLABELING (70%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (67%); THANKSGIVING (66%); DNA TESTING (50%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



415 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4597 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT;
The Debate on Articles of Impeachment Against President Clinton

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the House debate today on article of impeachment against President Clinton, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency:
 
Nita M. Lowey
Democrat of New York
 I rise in strong opposition to the resolution. Our founding fathers viewed impeachment as a mechanism of last resort to protect the nation from a President who threatened the Constitution or the American people. Throughout our history, members of Congress have appreciated the enormous gravity of impeachment, and that is why despite countless disputes, provocations, misdeeds and lies, the House has voted just once in its history to impeach a President.
Indeed, the delicate system of constitutional checks and balances established by the founders works only insofar as each branch of Government exercises its prerogatives responsibly. In the case of impeachment, that means applying the most rigorous test to the use of our authority. The Constitution gives this body the ability to undo our only national election, but we must use that authority judiciously and cautiously. To do otherwise imperils the stability of our democracy, replacing the orderly transfer of power with the constant threat of political upheaval. 
 A great nation does not overturn two national elections and throw a President out of office because he denied having a consensual affair. Let us instead find a suitable punishment that fits the President's offense: censure. . . .
 
Carolyn C. Kilpatrick
Democrat of Michigan
 This act that we are doing today is unconstitutional. The Constitution is very clear. This is not a high crime or misdemeanor. It bothers me that some of my colleagues on the other aisle have said we are marketing -- using a marketing tool by asking for censure. Most of the American people want the President censured. Most of the American people -- some nearly 70 percent -- do not want him impeached. Why then today we who represent the people of these United States before you with four articles of impeachment? I think it's a travesty. It's the wrong day. We have troops -- young men and women under 25 years of age risking their lives on foreign soil today -- for us to uphold justice for all of us. It is the wrong day that we are before you with these articles of impeachment.
It is the wrong way. We are not even allowed to vote to debate the issue of censureship. Is this a democracy, or are we moving to a totalitarian country where our rights are taken away from us? This is a very serious moment in our history. Let us not be trivialized or trivialize the process. A marketing tool? I don't think so. Censureship is what we want the opportunity to debate. Censureship is what we want the opportunity to vote on. Unfortunately, the Republican majority will not let us have that opportunity.
Mr. Speaker and members, vote no. Vote no on this ridiculous, insane affront to our Constitution. . . .
 
Edward J. Markey
Democrat of Massachusetts
 This matter should never have been pursued by Ken Starr. It should never have been pursued by the Judiciary Committee. And it should never have reached the floor of the House of Representatives. This matter belongs in family court, not in the court of the United States Senate with the Chief Justice of the United States presiding.
Yes, the President made a grievous personal error to the detriment of his family. But, no, it is not an offense against the state or our Constitution. We are now on the threshold of overturning the people's choice for President through a perversion of the independent counsel law, a runaway, partisan investigation of the most intimate private activity having nothing -- absolutely nothing -- to do with a real estate deal in Arkansas. Ken Starr has twisted and warped his task from one in which he was out to find the truth to one where he went out to get the President and First Lady of this country.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are amending the Constitution of the United States on the floor of the House of Representatives here today. Make no mistake about it. This is a constitutional amendment that we are debating, not an impeachment resolution. The Republicans are crossing out the impeachment standard of "high crimes and misdemeanors," and they are inserting the words "any crime or misdemeanor." We are permitting a constitutional coup d'etat, which will haunt this body and our country forever. . . .
A constitutional clause intended to apply to a Benedict Arnold selling out his country will now be expanded to cover every personal transgression, every future President, Democrat or Republican, will be subject to harassment by his political enemies who can credibly threaten impeachment for the slightest misconduct. This is wasteful, this is foolish, it is dangerous.
When you talk to people in the supermarkets, on the streets, they believe that the high crime against the Constitution is their family being cheated out of their Government's ability to work on things that affect their families -- Medicare, Social Security, the democratization of access to jobs and education for every family in our country.
You know, the ultimate Republican paradox is that they dislike the Government but they have to run for office in order to make sure that the Government doesn't work. In 1995 and '96 they tried to shut down the executive department. In 1997 and '98 they shut down the Congress. And now they're going for a political triple play. They're going to shut down the executive branch, the legislative branch and the Supreme Court of the United States simultaneously. . . .
 
Howard Coble
Republican of North Carolina
 Two quotes of relevance, my colleagues. Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "Sin has many tools, but the lie is the handle which fits them all."
Nearly a century ago, Theodore Roosevelt observed, "We can afford to differ on the currency, the tariff and foreign policy, but we cannot afford to differ on the question of honesty, if we expect our republic permanently to endure. Honesty is not so much a credit, as an absolute prerequisite to efficient service to the public. Unless a man is honest," he said, "we have no right to keep him in public life. It matters not how brilliant his capacity."
Some anti-impeachment proponents, Mr. Speaker, have accused those who plan to vote for the articles before us, of hating the President. I have no hate toward President Clinton, but it is my belief that the President did in fact commit perjury. And we can ill afford to turn a blind eye to this offense. If we do so ignore it, what sort of precedent do we establish when subsequent matters involving perjury arise, and must be resolved in a fair and impartial manner?
Much anxiety has been expressed, Mr. Speaker, about tying up the country, if this matter is transferred to the Senate for adjudication. This, in my opinion, is not well-founded. If the House impeaches, the Senate has wider latitude and more flexibility than we in the House. The Senate is obliged to commence the trial, but it could terminate prior to conclusion. The Senate could impose a penalty, it is my opinion, without removal. Or the Senate could convict and remove.
The Senate is capable of discharging the duty in one of several ways in limited time. The people's House is the body charged with the duty of accusing, and this is the duty we will discharge. If the impeachment articles before us fail, it will have been the will of the House. If the impeachment articles before us are passed, the Senate will then discharge its duty. The process will have been well served. . . .
 
James C. Greenwood
Republican of Pennsylvania
 The gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Conyers, made reference earlier in the debate to last-minute arm twisting of the undecided, and feel compelled to comment. I made a commitment to myself and to my colleagues -- it's an unusual one -- that is to come to this debate with my mind still available to persuasion. I am one of the last few holdouts undecided in this debate, and it needs to be said that not once, not once in this entire ordeal has a single member of my leadership, has a single colleague, has a single member of the Judiciary Committee not only not asked me to vote one way, they've never even inquired as to how I would vote.
We have big differences of opinion here, but it does the process a disjustice -- an injustice to argue that there has been arm twisting. I think that the whip has been maligned in this process. It has been alleged that he is twisting arms. I spend three and a half hours in the company of Mr. Livingston, Mr. Armey, Mr. DeLay and the entire elected leadership this week -- and not once did any of them say a word to me about impeachment. . . .
 
Bernard Sanders
Independent of Vermont
 I have never fully appreciated before just how out of touch this institution is with the needs of the American people. Forty-three million Americans have no health insurance, millions of senior citizens cannot afford their prescription drugs, and this House is going to vote to send to the Senate for a trial to go on month after month after month to discuss where Bill Clinton touched Monica Lewinsky. The global economy is volatile, the average American today is working longer hours for lower wages, and we have the widest gap between the rich and the poor. And we are voting today perhaps to paralyze our Government as the Senate explores the President's extramarital relations and his lies and his coverup of that relationship. . . .
 
James F. Sensenbrenner Jr.
Republican of Wisconsin
 We've heard all these prophets of economic doom and gloom if the House discharges its constitutional duty today in impeaching the President. The Nasdaq hit an all-time high. I think the markets are smarter than some of the people who are making these accusations. . . .
 
Ernest J. Istook Jr.
Republican of Oklahoma
 The President was given the opportunity to present witnesses or evidence which would dispute the facts. He did not. His legal hairsplitting defense could not alter the simple truth; the President lied, and lied under oath.
Here is what convinced me that this perjury is an impeachable offense and not simply a moral failure.
These were not lies told under sudden pressure when he was unexpectedly asked embarrassing questions. The President's lies were planned well in advance. They were premeditated. He knowingly acted to block justice, even after a Federal judge ruled his behavior was relevant and material. He orchestrated a deliberate scheme to tell multiple lies under oath on multiple occasions many months apart. Even today, he has admitted only what he has been forced to admit and otherwise continues to stonewall.
This was not a spur-of-the-moment decision to hide personal shame. He had ample time to correct his course, but instead chose to defy the laws of our land. Mr. Speaker, I will vote to impeach. . . .
 
Luis V. Gutierrez
Democrat of Illinois
 Speaker Gingrich was always proud to remind us that he was a professor of history. So Mr. Gingrich could tell us about the Constitutional Convention, where it was decided that a President could be removed from office for "high crimes and misdemeanors." Or Mr. Gingrich could tell us that censure was weighed and exercised against chief executives in the 19th century.
Let me be clear; no one is condoning the President's behavior. And if we had the chance, we would vote to condemn it. To take poetic license from Marc Antony's words from Julius Caesar, "I did not come here to praise Bill Clinton, but I do not intend to see him buried, either"-- buried under an avalanche of innuendo and salacious scandal.
Nor do I wish to see this Congress play the role of Brutus, reaching across the centuries to stab in the back the founders of our democracy who entrusted us with their legacy.
No one is attempting to defend a President. We are trying to defend a historical precedent. . . . History tells us what to do. Vote against impeachment of the President of the United States.
 
Ron Packard
Republican of California
 It is with heavy heart that I rise today in support of impeachment. I took an oath to uphold the Constitution and defend it against all enemies. And I would betray my conscience and my country if I were to ignore this oath. I rise in favor of impeachment because we all swore an oath, and I take my oaths very seriously even though the President does not.
My first wish is that the President resign. Unfortunately, he has chosen to place his legacy ahead of our nation's interest. . . .
 
Marge Roukema
Republican of New Jersey
 We are all, all deeply saddened to be here in the midst of this constitutional crisis. But I am convinced that it's my constitutional duty to vote for the articles of impeachment as presented by the Judiciary Committee.
Now, let's first be very clear. The case against the President is not about sex or the privacy of the President and the first family; it's about the very public legal action of perjury before a civil -- in a civil deposition and before a Federal criminal grand jury. These are matters of public policy and the law along with the questions of obstruction of justice and abuse of power.
But in this respect, I have determined that the evidence brought before us by the Judiciary Committee is credible and substantial and warrants sending . . . these articles to the Senate for trial.. . .
And I would stress -- and this is, I think, very important for all our colleagues to remember and for the public to remember -- this House did not arbitrarily choose to do this. This case was forced upon us as a consequence of the President's failure to deal directly with the Paula Jones lawsuit years ago, and then, of course, at the same time over the years including the 18 months while under investigation by the independent counsel's office.. . .
 
Bruce F. Vento
Democrat of Minnesota
 I rise in strong opposition to these articles of impeachment. Indeed, I think it's time that we uphold our constitutional responsibilities, not debase them. In fact, we have a solemn duty and judgment that we're to make, and I think that the report that has come back of the duty charged to the Judiciary Committee has been lacking. You have not done the job that's expected. Refusing a timetable and then jamming this into two weeks after the election obviously gives strong suspicion to the reasons that we're doing this.
This doesn't stand the legal test, this doesn't stand the constitutional test, this is turning this Congress upside down, and this is partisanship carried to an extreme. It's now attacking the basic fundamental document, the law of the land, our Constitutional process. There's a reason that there haven't been impeachments in the past of the President, and the only time we can look to is after the Civil War when this country was in upheaval.
And the fact is, if this is the direction that we're going, if you're going to lower the bar and set new precedents such as this with regards to impeachment, we're going to keep the Senate awful busy. . . .
 
Jay Dickey
Republican of Arkansas
 Mr. Speaker, I represent the fourth district of Arkansas, the district that includes Hope and Hot Springs, the birthplace and the boyhood home of President Bill Clinton.
When I first decided that I would not declare my intentions on the question of impeachment, it was mainly for the reason that I wanted to make sure of the charges and I wanted to encourage my constituents to assist me in this decision. Even though a substantial majority of the people who have made contact with me are in favor of impeachment or resignation, almost all have a heavy heart. Why is this? Because so many people in my district have their own self-esteem intertwined with the well-being of their friend, Bill Clinton.
So while they have reason to be embarrassed, disappointed and even disgusted, they are, in large part, in denial. Abraham Lincoln has a story that illustrates this dilemma. There was a farmer who had a tree by his house. It was a majestic-looking tree, and apparently perfect in every part -- tall, straight, and immense in size, the grand old sentinel of this forest home.
One morning while at work in his garden he saw a squirrel run up the tree into a hole and thought the tree might be hollow. He proceeded to examine it carefully, and much to his surprise, he found that the stately tree that he had valued for its beauty and grandeur to be the pride and protection of his little farm house, was hollow from top to bottom. Only a rim of sound wood remained, barely sufficient to support its weight. What was he to do? If he cut it down, it would do great damage with its great length and its spreading branches. If he let it remain, his family was in constant danger. In a storm, it might fall, or the wind might blow the tree against his house and crush his house and his children. What should he do? As he turned away, he said sadly, quote, "I wish I had never seen that squirrel."
 
Bill Delahunt
Democrat of Massachusetts
 No one excuses the President's behavior. It deserves our censure and our condemnation.
But I am just as concerned about our behavior, about the effect our actions may have in eroding public confidence and the rule of law, and the principles of fairness and due process that are embedded in our Constitution, that make this nation, this America, so unique among the family of nations.
I believe this is ultimately more important than the fate of one particular President. When we began this inquiry, I expressed the hope that it would be thorough, fair and respectful of the rule of law, so that our verdict would be respected as well, and we would be found no less worthy of praise than those who conducted the Nixon inquiry nearly 25 years ago.
They managed to transcend partisanship, to set a standard of fairness and due process that earned them an honored place in our history. And I am truly saddened that we fail to measure up. It was Chairman Hyde who said that without bipartisan support, any impeachment is doomed. And I agree. Yet the majority has sacrificed the legitimacy of this impeachment by proceeding without that support.
As we prepare to render our verdict on President Clinton, the American people and history itself, are sitting in judgment on us. And I believe they will judge us harshly, because we have failed in our duty to the rule of law.
We failed the rule of law when we abdicated our constitutional responsibility to an unelected prosecutor, when we rubber-stamped his conclusions and failed to conduct our own independent examination of a record replete with contradictions, inconsistencies and half-truths.
We failed the rule of law when we could not summon the political courage to call real witnesses to test their credibility. President Nixon was afforded that opportunity; President Clinton was not. And that was unfair.
We failed the rule of law when we informed the President's counsel of the precise charges only after he made his closing argument. That was unfair.
We failed the rule of law when we put the burden on the President to prove his innocence. That was unfair. Presidents are not above the law, but they, no less than other citizens, are entitled to its protections. That is what distinguishes a free country from a totalitarian one.
 
John Thune
Republican of South Dakota
 Over the past several weeks I have agonized, like most members of Congress, over the weight and the burden of the constitutional duty that's facing the United States House of Representatives. This is one of the most difficult decisions I've ever had to make in my career, and it's not a decision I enjoy making.
However, after much study, much thought, and much prayer, I've come to the following conclusion. Either we are a nation of laws or we are not. And if we are, then those laws have to apply equally to all people. Our Declaration of Independence says it best: "We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal." In America there's no emperor, and there's no Praetorian Guard. There is one standard of justice that applies equally to all, and to say or do otherwise will undermine the most sacred of all American ideals. President Clinton has committed Federal crimes, and there must be a reckoning, or no American should ever again be prosecuted for those same crimes.
There's one other issue, an important issue, that I'd like to address, and that is the matter of trust. Lying to the American people is a betrayal of trust.
All of us, including our public leaders, make mistakes. We're all subject to the same universal truth. We all fall short. To err is human; to forgive is divine. But to err repeatedly and willfully with impunity defies another universal truth, and that is the law of the harvest. In other words, you reap what you sow. And the pattern of deception and dishonesty that acts as a bodyguard to this President strikes at the very core of his ability to lead. It is a matter of trust.
Those close to the President say he can't admit to lying for legal, political and personal reasons. Fear of future prosecution and fear of political consequence gives explanation, albeit little excuse, for his denials. However, it is the President's assertion that he can't tell the truth for personal reasons that is most troubling. The President says he can't tell the truth because he doesn't believe he lied, and yet even the President's most ardent defenders acknowledge he lied under oath.
The President genuinely believes that he is telling the truth. We are left with one of two equally miserable realities: either the President chooses contempt and complete disregard for the truth, or his conscience is so diminished as to leave him unable to discern the truth from his lies. Both conclusions are ruinous to a constitutional republic whose leaders must command the trust of those they lead.
Our constitutional Government will stand the test of time, my friends, but only if we deal decisively with those who recklessly assault its foundations. Allegiance to our constitution leaves us with no alternative but to vote in favor of impeaching the President. . . .
 
Charles B. Rangel
Democrat of New York
 My colleagues, I'm asking as many that can to reject the idea of voting for articles of impeachment, because 25 years ago, I had the opportunity to serve in this body when the question of impeachment was seriously taken up in 1974. And I can tell you that we may use the type of language that sounds as though we're working within the Constitution, but this procedure is not on the level. You cannot have a political procedure where Republicans line up on one side, like they're shooting fish in a barrel, and Democrats line up on the other side. We should not be talking about a Democratic President that for 10 years people have been trying to hound him out of office. Even before this deal goes down, where you already have the votes, there are people asking the President to resign from office.
What has this President done to cause so much hatred, so much animosity? And for those of you who say that this isn't about sex, I agree with you. This is about getting rid of the President of the United States. Whether it's the F.B.I. files, whether it's Whitewater, whether it's discussing something that Hillary has done, or whether it's Lewinsky, the whole idea is a lynch mob mentality that says this man has to go!
You say, "Well, we have to vote our conscience here." Who determines the conscience? What arrogance can the Republicans have in this body to determine what the punishment should be for the President of the United States? Who has found the language in our Constitution to dictate that you can take this wonderful instrument that allowed this republic to survive for so long and twist it and bend it and say that we cannot have censure as an option to what you're trying to do the President, to this Congress and to the country? . . .
 
Charlie Norwood
Republican of Georgia
 I'm going to vote for articles of impeachment. Now, I don't like that, I'm not happy about that, in fact, I'm deeply saddened by that. I didn't come here to impeach Bill Clinton or any other President, as I imagine most of you did not.
So maybe we might take one other look at one other consideration in these last hours, and Mr. Speaker, if you would allow me to quote President Clinton: "There is no question that an admission of making false statements to Government officials and interfering with the F.B.I. is an impeachable offense."
President Clinton went on to say, "If a President of the United States ever lied to the American people, he should resign."
Mr. Clinton was more than willing to apply these standards to a Republican President in 1974, as was the Democratic majority and a substantial portion of the then-Republican minority.
Mr. Clinton was correct in 1974. Why was he correct? Consider the questions and answers of recent months:
The question: "Did you have sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky?" And the answer, and I quote: "You are free to infer that my testimony is that I did not have sexual relations as I understood this term to be defined," unquote. We now know the truth, but only because the blue dress says that he lies.
Consider the question and the answer, "Did you authorize the transfer of missile technology to Red Chinese Army in exchange for campaign contributions?" end quote. The answer: "No one can prove there was a quid pro quo," end quote.
Consider this question and the answer: "Did you order airstrikes against Iraq to influence these impeachment hearings?" And the answer, and I quote, "I don't believe any serious person would believe that Secretary Cohen, General Shelton, and the whole rest of the national security team would participate in such an action," end quote.
Do we have answers here that we or the world can trust? You can't tell when the President is telling the truth, and unfortunately he can't tell when he's lying. And that leads to a tremendous loss of trust. And when that person involved in that is the most powerful person in the world, it is dangerous. . . .
 
John Edward Porter
Republican of Illinois
 I rise in support of the first, second and third articles of the resolution. Mr. Speaker, let me first commend my longtime friend and Illinois colleague, Henry Hyde, for his remarks. His words brought tears to my eyes and moved me as no words I have heard in my 25 years of legislative service. I thank him for reminding us all of the defining principles that form the bedrock of our free society and our system of government under the rule of law.
Now, regarding our fighting men and women in the gulf and the timing of this debate, ladies and gentlemen of the House, there was a large protest rally against impeachment on the west front of the Capitol yesterday afternoon. Many of the members of the minority party attended and spoke at that rally. It was the right of all to attend and to raise their voices.
No one would suggest that the exercise of democracy outside this chamber denigrated the men and women of our armed forces in combat in the Persian Gulf. But neither does this exercise of democracy inside this chamber show disrespect for them. Indeed, the processes of democracy and our freedoms are exactly what they are fighting to preserve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ;IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION IMPEACHMENT (93%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MISDEMEANORS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); VENTO, BRUCE (REPR); ROUKEMA, MARGE (REPR); PACKARD, RON (REPR); RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR); NORWOOD, CHARLES (REPR); THUNE, JOHN (REPR); DICKEY, JAY (REPR); PORTER, JOHN (REPR); DELAHUNT, WILLIAM (REPR); LOWEY, NITA M (REPR); KILPATRICK, CAROLYN C (REPR); MARKEY, EDWARD (REPR); GREENWOOD, JAMES C (REPR); SANDERS, BERNIE (REPR); SENSENBRENNER, F JAMES (REPR); ISTOOK, ERNEST (REPR); GUTIERREZ, LUIS V (REPR); COBLE, HOWARD (REPR); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); NITA M LOWEY (88%); HOWARD COBLE (77%); CHARLES B RANGEL (73%); JOHN THUNE (73%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (72%); WILLIAM D DELAHUNT (70%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (57%); EDWARD J MARKEY (57%); CAROLYN C KILPATRICK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



416 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
Surprise Dropin Rates By Hong Kong's Banks

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

 BODY:
Hong Kong banks announced yesterday a surprise quarter-point cut in interest rates that demonstrated a rare show of independence from United States credit policy. The reduction in the bank prime rate to 9 percent from 9.25 percent is the fifth this year, for a total of 1.25 percentage points. The move came amid calls for an easier credit policy from some quarters as Hong Kong continues to endure a deep recession. 
 A cut was largely unanticipated because Hong Kong's credit policy decisions have traditionally been simple matches of those announced by the United States Federal Reserve Board. If Hong Kong and United States interest rates move together, there is less room for speculative trading between the two currencies that could destabilize the Hong Kong dollar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRIME RATE INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); PRIME RATES (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); RECESSION (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998



417 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: You Call This Progress?

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt is the executive editor of Governing magazine and the author of "The Lost City" and "The United States of Ambition."

 BODY:

THE CORROSION OF CHARACTER
The Personal Consequences of Work
in the New Capitalism.
By Richard Sennett.
176 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $23.95. 
 One of the more unusual events in recent American politics was the sudden appearance and rapid disappearance of the Angry American Worker. For a few noisy weeks in the spring of 1996 he was the star of the Presidential campaign -- a decent, hard-working citizen who had been rudely downsized out of a job and was casting about for someone to blame. Candidates in both parties struggled for effective ways to offer him sympathy, and promised him governmental relief.
Then, almost as quickly as he had entered, the Angry American Worker left the stage. By the time of the fall campaign between Bill Clinton and Bob Dole, he had ceased to be a topic of discussion altogether. Nor has he emerged very often since. In the thousands of campaigns waged this year for state, local and national office, I know of none that centered on the issue of the displaced worker's plight.
Of course, there is a simple explanation for this sequence of events. It is that the booming national economy of the mid-1990's took care of the problem. At a time when unemployment is just over 4 percent and good new jobs are being created in ample numbers, the 50 million or so jobs that have disappeared over the past two decades need not preoccupy any of us very long. Even the poster child of early 1996 -- the middle-aged white-collar employee downsized onto the street after a career of consummate corporate loyalty -- becomes whole again once he finds new work somewhere else.
This is what the majority of mainstream economists will tell you. It is not what Richard Sennett believes. A sociologist at New York University and the London School of Economics, Sennett is the author of several provocative books on work, family and social class. He thinks the wrenching changes of late-20th-century capitalism are having subtle but profound consequences that will endure far into the next century. "Many more are hurt," he warns, "than cry out."
Richard Sennett is an unusual writer. He has always brought to his topics a combination of broad historical and literary learning and a reporter's willingness to walk into a store or factory, strike up a conversation and write down what he hears. In "The Corrosion of Character," he reports on his regular visits to a bakery in Boston, a bar in Manhattan and a self-help club of middle-aged I.B.M. castoffs in upstate New York, interspersing his observations with excursions into Marx, Diderot, 17th-century mathematics and Virgil's "Georgics."
The argument may take an occasional detour, but the ultimate point is always clear: the working conditions of modern capitalism are eating away at loyalty, commitment and the kind of long-term thinking that used to make even the most routine work a central ingredient in orderly human life.
In the Boston bakery where 25 years ago Sennett interviewed sweating Greek-Americans grumpy about the conditions but proud of themselves and their product, he returned to find a collection of interchangeable transients pressing buttons to produce loaves of bread they never saw or touched. They do not consider themselves bakers; they do not plan to stay in the job more than a few months, even if they could; most of them have no idea what they will be doing in a year, let alone where they will be in a decade. They are not angry, or alienated -- they lack the necessary emotional investment for that. They are merely indifferent.
The disaffectedness of Sennett's bakers differs only by degree from that of the workers he meets at higher levels of the economic ladder. Rico, the son of a janitor who lived for his children's future, has achieved almost everything the father dreamed about. He is a consultant to computer companies, with a good income and a spacious house in the New York suburbs. But his working life has been no picnic. He has moved four times in 14 years, been downsized out of a job by virtue of a corporate merger, and patched his career back together as an independent operator whose professional relationships are, in their way, as transient and unstable as those in the bakery. He has no more idea where he will be in 10 years than the bakers do.
Rico tells Sennett that he feels the decline of loyalty and its depressing result all around him, not just in the business world but in the culture and in his family life. "You can't imagine how stupid I feel," he says, "when I talk to my kids about commitment. It's an abstract virtue to them; they don't see it anywhere."
THE downsized I.B.M. executives Sennett talks to at the River Winds Cafe, in a town in New York's Hudson Valley, seem at first to be making a peaceful adjustment to the earthquake that hit them. Perhaps these were some of the Angry American Workers of early 1996, but they are mellower now, wistful rather than bitter about the fact that they spend their afternoons in a cafe rather than in a cubicle at Big Blue. But anyone who wishes to count this as progress might still be well advised to ponder Sennett's account of the consequences. The I.B.M. exiles have not only accepted responsibility for their fate, they have turned inward in general, expending energy on self-awareness that used to be devoted to school boards, local government and other forms of public participation. "They aren't afraid of holding up their heads in the community," Sennett reports. "They've just lost interest in civic affairs."
All in all, it is a bleak picture. But Sennett leaves the reader with a tantalizing morsel of optimism. He believes that end-of-century Americans, denied the satisfactions of order and rootedness in the workplace, will finally begin to rebuild them from scratch in the rest of their lives. "One of the unintended consequences of modern capitalism," he writes, "is that it has strengthened the value of place, aroused a longing for community . . . for some other scene of attachment and depth." The reader must fill in for himself where this will happen -- on neighborhood streets, in schools, perhaps most of all in the trenches of family relationships. But one reaches the end of this book convinced, with Sennett, that the reaction is bound to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CORROSION OF CHARACTER, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (90%); ANGRY AMERICAN WORKERS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (90%); ANGRY AMERICAN WORKERS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (85%); WRITERS (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); SOCIOLOGY (62%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN; SENNETT, RICHARD BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



418 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By Scott Veale 

 BODY:

The Universal Donor
By Craig Nova. Norton, $13. 
 A Los Angeles doctor, trying to save his lover after she is bitten by a snake she is studying, is forced to track down a psychopathic criminal who shares her rare blood type. Part love story, part thriller, this novel explores "highly emotional conflicts without resorting to either sentimentality or cliche," Scott Bradfield wrote here last year.
 
The Crystal Frontier: A Novel in Nine Stories
By Carlos Fuentes.
Translated by Alfred Mac Adam.
Harvest/Harcourt Brace, $13.
In a series of tales centering on a powerful tycoon and his family, the prolific Mexican author explores the troubled relations between his native country and the United States. Last year our reviewer, Jay Parini, found the stories uneven but said that at their best they display "acute observation" and a fine "sense of satire." Eccentric Neighborhoods, by Rosario Ferre (Plume, $12.95), is a sweeping novel about the shifting fortunes of two upper-crust families in Puerto Rico, one representing the nation's agrarian past and the other its industrial future. "The author's voice is bright and vital," Mark Childress wrote here earlier this year. "The magic in Ferre's fiction arises from the intertwined experiences of human beings, carrying the story of 20th-century Puerto Rico in the arc of their lives."
 
Mrs. Keppel and Her Daughter
By Diana Souhami.
St. Martin's Griffin, $14.95.
This chronicle of adultery, homosexuality and intrigue among the British aristocracy focuses on Alice Keppel, the winsome mistress of Queen Victoria's eldest son, both as Prince of Wales and as King Edward VII, and her daughter, Violet, whose heart was broken when her affair with the writer Vita Sackville-West hit the skids. The result is a "fascinating, richly textured story," Kennedy Fraser wrote in the Book Review last year. In The Queen: A Biography of Elizabeth II, by Ben Pimlott (Wiley, $18.95), a professor of politics and contemporary history at the University of London argues that the Queen's dutiful, passive reign is in keeping with Britain's sense of itself and its history. In 1997 our reviewer, Andrew Sullivan, called this a "superbly judicious biography" with "a wry awareness of the paradox of a populist monarchy being at the center of a constitutional democracy."
 
The Truest Pleasure
By Robert Morgan. Algonquin, $11.95.
In this historical novel, set in rural North Carolina early in the century, a religious woman tells of her difficult marriage to an industrious, practical-minded man, and their conflicting views of salvation and devotion. " 'The Truest Pleasure' is a quietly audacious book," Richard Bausch wrote in these pages in 1995. "It contains characters and situations that aren't easy to forget."
 
The Man Who Ate Everything: And Other Gastronomic Feats, Disputes, and Pleasurable Pursuits
By Jeffrey Steingarten. Vintage, $14.
In these obsessively omnivorous essays, the food critic for Vogue describes his far-flung gastronomic adventures, stopping along the way with morsels of culinary advice and medical and scientific digressions. "Steingarten writes with marvelous ease and clarity and humor," Alexander Chancellor said here last year. "His facts are fascinating and so are his recipes." Olives: The Life and Lore of a Noble Fruit, by Mort Rosenblum (North Point, $15), is a journalist's freewheeling homage to Athena's gift to mankind, crammed with history, recipes and health tips. This is an "edifying new book," Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote in The New York Times in 1996. "Pit by pit, his savory details add up."
 
Firewall: The Iran-Contra Conspiracy and Cover-Up
By Lawrence E. Walsh. Norton, $18.
The independent counsel in the Iran-contra affair answers his many critics, charging that Congress, conservative judges and, above all, Reagan Administration officials prevented him from meting out justice. "Walsh's book is a useful record of the scandal and its aftermath," John B. Judis wrote here in 1997.
 
Sun Dancer
By David London. University of Nebraska, $14.95.
This first novel is about a bloody confrontation between Federal agents and Indian protesters in the Black Hills of South Dakota. The result is an "unflinching look at the conflicts among the Sioux, and . . . the pervasive cynicism and slow-burn despair that accompany a history of frustrated attempts to set right several generations of wrongs," Scott Martelle said in these pages in 1996.
 
Moonshine: A Life in Pursuit of White Liquor
By Alec Wilkinson. Hungry Mind, $12.95.
This profile of a brave and cunning Federal agent named Garland Bunting is also a history of bootlegging, which these days mostly exploits alcoholics among the rural poor. In 1985 our reviewer, Bob Lancaster, found the author's "reporting style so sharp and economical that the prose fairly crackles."
 
The Autobiography of Foudini M. Cat
By Susan Fromberg Schaeffer. Fawcett, $10.95.
A precocious housecat recounts his life and times, from his abandonment as a kitten to his adoption by a couple he named Warm and Pest. "This entertaining cat's-eye view of life . . . can be recommended even to those who are less than entranced by felines," Kimberly B. Marlowe wrote here last year. Scott Veale

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos Fuentes (JERRY BAUER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); PUERTO RICO (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); PUERTO RICO (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS; BOOK TRADE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (86%); LITERATURE (77%); FAMILY (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); BRITISH ROYALTY (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: VEALE, SCOTT ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PRINCE CHARLES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



419 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 50; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 9843 words

HEADLINE: What Welfare-to-Work Really Means

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle, a staff writer for the magazine, has written extensively on welfare reform.

 BODY:
One Saturday morning this fall, a 54-year-old Bronx woman who has spent more years on welfare than she can remember answered a small-type summons from the city government, the second that she has received this year. "Dear Sir/Madam," it began. "You are being called in to evaluate your employability." She stuffed two doctors' letters into a worn envelope, filled a plastic bag with prescription pills and enlisted her son as an interpreter. They traveled to a drab building off Union Square, where they waited for an hour in hard plastic chairs until a caseworker summoned them to a cramped cubicle. "The reason we called you in," he began, "is everybody on public assistance is required to work." The son, a jobless 21-year-old, answered through a mouthful of gum: "Well, we got letters from her doctors saying she's not really able to work."
 The standoff had begun. 
 The first of the creased letters handed across the desk described a case of colon cancer, successfully treated three years before, followed by diabetes, gallstones and a liver condition that leads to "recurrent abdominal pain." The second added hypertension and warned that "unless very light duty is assigned, this patient should not work." The caseworker, a Nigerian immigrant who had worked his way through night school, was not persuaded. He noted that the woman's application for Federal disability benefits had just been denied and that the city's doctors, who had examined her in the spring, found her to be employable. "Our doctors feel she is able to work," he said.
 "They'll make anybody work," the son said. "They don't care what's inside."
 Across an acre of old furniture and ringing phones, similar conversations were spilling out in every direction. Indeed, nearly a thousand would transpire in this office alone in just one day, between recipients once coded as too sick to work and caseworkers determined to find something they could do. Some clearly seemed in painful need. A one-armed Russian man arrived with his wife, who limped in leaning on a cane. A woman just released from the hospital complained that she felt faint, then passed out on the floor. Others, however, seemed more indignant than infirm, like the mother of two shouting that workfare is "a system to keep black people down." Dozens of people classified as medically unemployable confessed that they had secretly been commuting to work or to class.
 The Bronx woman with the worn envelope was not complaining but staring into space, as if the wrangling between the caseworker and her son was of no particular interest. More of the city's questions followed. What languages does she speak? (Spanish.) What languages does she read? (None.) What grade did she complete? (Sixth.) Is she on drugs? (No.) Has she ever worked? (Once, in a shrimp-packing plant, 22 years ago.)
 The caseworker was particularly skeptical of the woman's assertions, written on a questionnaire, that she was unable to "sit," "balance," "bend," "climb," "work in an office" or "work outdoors." "She can't sit?" he said. "Well, she's been sitting here quite a while." The son sounded angry. "You all gonna be responsible if something happens to her?"
 "Are we responsible?" The caseworker lingered over the question. In the end, he would relent and agree to another medical exam -- but not quite yet. "We wouldn't put her in the park," he said. "We wouldn't put her in sanitation. If we put her to work, it would be office work." And besides, he said, "if anything happens, we can always call an ambulance in."
 His tone was so flat it was hard to tell whether he was offering sarcasm or reassurance.
 
The Mayor Declares His Last Great War
 Last summer, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani walked into a bank auditorium in midtown Manhattan and delivered a remarkable talk on welfare -- remarkable both for the scale of new work obligations he pledged to impose on the city's vast welfare population and for the lack of attention his plan received in a culture that routinely bellows at lesser provocations. Addressing a city that had more than a million people on public assistance -- or one of every seven residents -- when he first took office in 1993, Giuliani promised "to end welfare by the end of this century completely." A few caseworkers in the audience clapped and a reporter asked a technical question about child care. Elsewhere, scarcely anyone noticed.
 If Giuliani's welfare speeches now seem routine, it is a measure of the victory he has already won. After five years of bare-knuckled battle, he presides over what is by far the nation's largest workfare program, with more than 30,000 poor New Yorkers cleaning city parks and answering city phones. But while it has been celebrated, litigated, picketed and condemned, the work program still covers only 10 percent of the city's welfare recipients. Giuliani's new timetable -- which happens to conclude on the eve of the 2000 Presidential primaries -- leaves him 12 months to round up the rest.
Bold welfare talk is the political norm these days. But the events now under way in New York are distinctive for at least two reasons. One is the sheer scale of the endeavor. As Giuliani is fond of saying, the number of New Yorkers already shorn from the rolls -- more than 400,000 -- exceeds the population of Buffalo, the state's next largest city. For better or worse, the Mayor has already chased more people off welfare than a famed welfare-eradication program like Wisconsin's ever enrolled, even at its peak. One in 20 of the city's residents is now someone moved off the welfare rolls during the Giuliani years.
 In addition, Giuliani is waging his war in the heart of enemy territory. The Union Square site of the Saturday sifting is just a mile from the Lower East Side settlement house where the welfare rights movement was born in the 1960's. The poor people Giuliani is summoning have more political allies, more rights and more lawyers than those in almost any other place.
 Though Giuliani scarcely mentioned welfare in the 1993 campaign that brought him to office, he now calls it a cornerstone of his legacy -- and by inference, a key to his political future. "This is by far the best thing we're doing for the city," he said during one of several recent discussions on the topic at City Hall. "It is much more significant than the reduction in crime, although the reduction in crime gets a tremendous amount of attention."
 The more the Mayor talks welfare these days, the more he stretches toward philosophical flight. "From 1960 to 1994, the work ethic was under attack in New York City," he said. "New York City viewed welfare as a good thing, as a wonderful thing. They romanticized it and embraced a philosophy of dependency, almost as if it's better to have somebody on welfare than to help somebody to work." Giuliani said he is trying to erase that "perverted social philosophy," which robbed the poor of their ambition, and reawaken the respect for work "in a deep philosophical and metaphysical sense."
 But for a mayor who continually returns to the word "philosophy," Giuliani's core commitment is unclear. Is the goal (as he says) to fashion a new "social contract" between society and its poor? Or is it (as he also says) simply to cut the rolls?
 And philosophy is only part of the issue in an operation this complex. A second test of the Giuliani effort resides in something more mundane: bureaucracy. Logistically, what Giuliani vows to achieve is anything but welfare's "end." Aid is supposed to continue, but only to those who keep pace with a 35-hour workweek designed and overseen by the Human Resources Administration, the city's welfare agency.
 What Giuliani does mean in a surprisingly literal sense is that the obligation applies to everybody: the armies of women with pill bottles and doctor's letters, immigrants who speak only Spanish, addicts in treatment programs. Whether they can sit but not stand, or stand but not lift, Giuliani is vowing to put them to work -- if possible in a private job, if necessary in a workfare position tailored to their needs.
 The overwhelming mechanics of that effort now fall, under a compressed calendar, to an agency typically introduced by the word "troubled." Starved of supplies as basic as paint and paper clips, its caseworkers, who number in the thousands, are used to a bureaucratic wasteland where anything that can go wrong, will. They are rigidly clerical and chronically discontent. And they are now being charged with nothing less than reordering the lives of the underclass.
 Giuliani raised some eyebrows a year ago when he put the agency's efforts under the command of one of the nation's most uncompromising critics of public assistance. Jason A. Turner, a veteran of Wisconsin's anti-welfare campaign, designed his first workfare plan in junior high school, and he has been refining his craft ever since. A cheerful, earnest, tenacious man, long on good intentions and unconstrained by doubt, he operates on the simple belief -- dangerously simple, his detractors say -- that when it comes to welfare, less is almost always best.
 It is the combination of Giuliani's calls and the bureaucracy's response that will determine whether work is offered in ways that support the poor or on terms that drive them away. Hand by hand, case by case, this is a welfare battle in its rawest form, fought across an archipelago of ancient metal desks in a sea of ringing telephones.
 
Jason Turner Gets a Taste of Harlem, and Kafka
 "We're putting the agency on a war footing, if you will," Jason Turner was saying. On a sticky July morning, two days after the Mayor's speech, he was climbing into a black sedan and setting off to barnstorm the boroughs. To the 31 offices once tellingly known as "income-maintenance centers" he was carrying Giuliani's gospel. "We're a generous city to the extent that we truly help people become independent," he said at almost every stop. "We're not generous to the extent that we just give people money." By visiting each office, Turner said he hoped to replicate the sense of governmental mission that swept the National Aeronautics and Space Administration a generation ago.
 But NASA this ain't. Nothing at the offices seemed to work. Certainly not the hand-lettered sign in the office on 34th Street, posted amid chip bags and soda cans: "If you keep eating and drinking you won't be seen." Not the copy machines: the agency leases reconstructed models, and they are a source of constant complaint. Not the elevators, either: three years ago, one lurched in a Bronx office and decapitated a welfare clerk. The agency is so disorganized, it literally cannot find a quarter of its case records. Turner was about to launch into his speech in central Harlem when a vision brought him up short. The wall was obscured by paper stalagmites six feet tall. "What are all those files?" he gasped, to a room that roared with laughter.
 Among the elements that do not seem to work are some of the workers themselves. In a work-force genealogy, they might be considered kin to postal clerks: a minimally competent, by-the-books staff, long charged with a repetitious task -- in this case, processing checks. There's reason to question their readiness for the more challenging work ahead. In one center, 5 percent of the staff was on worker's compensation -- almost all for injuries they claimed to have sustained by falling out of their chairs. It had not escaped the caseworkers' notice that falling caseloads leave their own jobs in doubt. "Our livelihoods are premised on caseloads -- what will happen to us?" one asked. Yet others worried that their workload would increase. One caseworker in East Harlem aimed a long, polished fingernail Turner's way and warned: "I'm a little hyped!"
 "We're overwhelmed!" another added.
 "Well, you all are getting the job done somehow," Turner said.
 "No, we're not!" the woman with the nails said. "That's what we're trying to tell you!"
 Though the depth of the organizational breakdown caught Turner by surprise, it did nothing to alter the work-first message he delivered at Giuliani's behest. Turner harbors an almost mystical belief in the power of work -- not just as a source of income, but also as a redemptive force that can treat depression, order lives and stem moral disintegration.
 Turner's faith that labor liberates owes much to his maternal grandfather, John Tufel. A bond salesman who lost his job in the Depression, Tufel donned a suit to sell brushes door to door. Now 45, Turner joined him on a cross-country drive the summer he turned 10, and the diary his mother hoped would fill with tributes to the vistas instead became an admiring ledger of his grandfather's frugal budgets. "He was a man of firm, fixed principle," Turner said.
 Addressing the caseworkers last summer, Turner parried the endless what-ifs with one consistent answer: Life is tough, get a job. Will there be training? ("The best preparation for work is working.") What about people who cannot speak English? ("The best way to learn English is to interact with English-speaking people in a workplace.") What about drug addicts? ("Treatment is not a substitute for work.") "Let me leave with this one thought," Turner said, departing one office. "I don't want our agency to own every circumstance and problem a client faces. That's part of empowerment."
 The message was new, but not necessarily unwelcome. In the workers' attitude toward the welfare poor, concern and resentment run side by side. Like the Nigerian caseworker at Union Square, many of those now toiling behind a welfare desk are recent immigrants, and they are proud to have grasped a rung on the American working-class ladder. In African, Spanish and Caribbean accents, they wonder why more of their clients have not done the same.
 One of the trip's oddest moments unfolded in central Harlem, when a caseworker with dreadlocks and an island accent asked whether Turner would consider giving clients "money-management classes." Perhaps, Turner said. But the real way to learn is this: "Live on what you get, and if you run out, figure out what to do until your next paycheck."
 For a moment, the room fell silent. The city's new Welfare Commissioner -- this Ivy League-educated, Republican white man -- had just traveled to the heart of Harlem and proclaimed it morally instructive for the poor to face empty cupboards. Once upon a time, there might have been a riot. In the end-welfare age, the stunned silence leads to applause.
 "I like that!" the caseworker said.
 
The Welfare-Seekers Find It Harder To Make the Rolls
 Turner spent much of the year converting welfare offices into so-called "job centers." While the aim is philosophical -- to promote self-sufficiency -- the means are procedural: the changes make it much harder to get on the rolls. Now, before aid-seekers can formally apply, they must first see a "financial planner" trained to promote welfare alternatives, like relying on family or persevering in an unwanted job. Those who still wish to pursue welfare must then complete a supervised job-search program. For those with children, the job search lasts 30 days. (They are seeking Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the Federal welfare program created in 1996 that sets a five-year lifetime limit on aid.) For those without children, it lasts 45 days. (They are seeking home relief, a state and local program.) In either case, a single missed hour without an approved excuse can void the entire application. Statistically, the results have been striking. In the early 1990's under Mayor David Dinkins (whose commissioner pledged to make welfare more "user friendly"), about 75 percent of those who walked in the door wound up on the rolls. In his first four years, Giuliani cut the rate to about 50 percent. Now in the job centers, the average rate has fallen to 25 percent. So far only half the offices have converted to the new procedures. But projected across the entire system, the job centers would cut the number of new cases by 50,000 a year.
 It's a remarkable figure, but just what does it show?
 One interpretation is that many people seeking welfare have other ways of supporting themselves. Certainly some already have jobs. (In Wisconsin, for example, researchers now believe that about 30 percent of those on the old welfare system were employed, though only about 15 percent reported it.) Others may decide that they would rather look for work on their own than hassle with a program.
 The new procedures are particularly popular with a cohort of the welfare-agency middle managers who were disillusioned by the old system. Adrianne Fleming's immigrant parents were so hostile to welfare they spanked her when she came home from the fourth grade in Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant with a pair of red tennis shoes from a donation drawer. "My mother said, 'That's charity!' She felt offended," said Fleming, director of the Greenwood Job Center in Brooklyn, the city's first. "To this day, my father has a hard time accepting that I work in an agency that gives money away. That's why I tell him, now we give jobs away."
 Opening a job center in Harlem has been the highlight of Gail Godwin's 29-year career. "I said, 'Good morning, welcome to the Hamilton Job Center,"' she recounted in a meeting of center directors this fall. "Half the people said: 'Job center? I didn't come for no job center!' This man said: 'No, no! Ah-plee-ca-cion! Ah-plee-ca-cion! No job, no job!"' She laughed so hard at the memory of the scattering clients she could barely finish the story. "He left! That was cute. He left! I could not believe that those two little words -- 'job center' -- could clear the area." In her view, the lesson was clear: "There are some people who are just here for welfare."
 The competing view is that the centers present even the most genuinely needy with formidable procedural barriers. Most clients are not allowed to complete an application until they return a second day. The first, spent waiting for a financial planner, can easily stretch to five or six hours. A month of job search may not sound like much, but many applicants have chaotic lives -- sick children, jailed relatives, flagging spirits -- that will lead to a missed hour one day. "No matter how you phrase it," announces the newsletter of the Queens Job Center, "the goal of the Financial Planner, Employment Planner, Social Service Planner and Resource Staff, is the same: Redirect the participant to another source other than Temporary Assistance."
 Some clients may be plainly confused. "When they say, 'It's not a welfare center,' people hear it as, 'There's no welfare,"' says Helen Lee, an attorney with the Legal Aid Society. "Some of the workers have been quite courteous. They won't say, 'Get out of here.' They say, 'Come back when you're feeling better.' But I think they picked workers who are inclined to deny people benefits, to find them ineligible. It's set up so the whole process is so cumbersome."
 For much of the year, such complaints belonged to the advocates alone. By November, however, officials from the United States Department of Agriculture began investigating the corollary effect on food stamps. Though eligibility for the program remains unchanged, the city's food-stamp rolls have fallen 15 percent in the last year; at the same time, the requests for help reported by soup kitchens and food pantries has risen 24 percent. The U.S.D.A. officials warned that by withholding applications until clients return a second day, the city may be violating Federal law.
 In the subsequent fray, Giuliani not only assumed personal control, reversing a decision by Turner to distribute food-stamp applications the day clients request them. He also railed against those with a "romantic and emotional" view of food stamps as anything more than welfare and spent a Sunday morning at City Hall poring over the Federal regulations himself. It remains unclear whether the city's food stamp policy is legal. What is clear is that Giuliani wants nothing about the system to be "user friendly."
 
The Case of Lester Collins
 With thousands of New Yorkers diverted from the rolls, no single figure embodies their fates. (Giuliani has resisted doing tracking studies on, of all things, civil-liberties grounds. "Of course I don't have plans to keep track of people," he said. "I'd be being Big Brother.") One figure does, however, occupy a place of special renown inside the agency. Lester Collins was one of the first to arrive on March 30, when the Greenwood Job Center opened its doors.
 Since then, Collins has made at least nine failed attempts to come onto the rolls, not counting the times he did not get far enough to complete an official application. He has hustled female financial planners for dates, threatened to blow up the center and shown up so drunk and unruly he was removed by the police. Turner, on hand for the opening, somehow mentally registered Collins as a success. "Please don't tell commissioner about Lester," said Fleming, the center's earnest director. "It'll break his heart."
 After hearing much about the Lester legend, I found him one day at his mother's apartment in a Coney Island public housing complex. At 25, he is a slight, gap-toothed man with a wide grin who relishes an audience, and he offered a long recital of the injustices he had suffered at the Greenwood Job Center. The job-search program was "corny," he said, especially for a man like himself planning to become a stock broker. And so was a stint in a workfare program, which he quit when ordered to clean a public bathroom. "They should just give me my money and stop playing mind games," he said. Arriving home from her own workfare assignment, his mother offered a different view: "Lester needs to go get a head shrinker."
 As a young, troubled, home-relief client (one of perhaps a dozen subcultures under the welfare umbrella), Collins is a familiar New York figure. Perhaps he is also a minor harbinger of things to come. Giuliani certainly has reason to argue that he has no place on the rolls; if ever there was a case for caseload reduction, Lester is it. And the loss of his check has not been as dire as critics fear. He has other ways of surviving: odd jobs (he has loaded the occasional truck), other government aid (food stamps and public housing) and family help ("I buy extra food, so I can give him a bag when he goes home," his mother said).
 At the same time, there are yet no signs that losing welfare will set Collins on the road to recovery, as Giuliani and Turner would predict. Turner's theory is that the loss of welfare will help troubled clients by prompting them to deal with their problems. He likens the process to one of people being "thrust into the public square," where they will be forced to acknowledge their self-destructive behavior. But thrust into the public square, Collins did nothing of the sort: he flirted, fought, drank, complained and bummed groceries from his mother. So far, for him at least, ending welfare has been another way of continuing the same old life.
 
Do Giuliani's Job Centers Get People Jobs?
 The conversion to the job centers did much to bolster Turner's stock at City Hall. "He's doing a better job than I thought he would do, and I thought he would do a very good job," Giuliani said in mid-October, citing the diversion rates as an example. But a second measure of the centers' performance has received less public attention. That is the number of people in the job-search program who are actually placed in jobs. To be sure, the statistics can easily be misconstrued. The official count understates the numbers really working, since it only counts clients who found jobs through the program itself. There is no way to know how many dropped out and found work on their own. And immediate job placement is just part of the centers' larger goal, of changing the habits and expectations that clients bring to the program. A month of job search before coming on the rolls may teach skills that pay off later.
 Moreover, it is hard to know what the benchmark should be. In his July speech, Giuliani sketched out a job-center vision where "for 10 people that came in, for 2 or 3 of them you found a job right away." But the staff at one center was upset, nearly two weeks after opening, to find that no one had found employment. "I was very depressed -- it was nine days into this program, and we hadn't gotten a job for anyone," said an official there. At another center, an official discovered that just 3.5 percent of the first 1,000 clients referred to the program were placed in jobs. "Everyone who comes through the job center, they ask, 'How many people got jobs?"' an official there said. "And we never answer. Because when you look at the number of people who come in, it doesn't sound like much."
 The agency now has data on the first 5,300 people to enter the job-search program. Of them, 256 were placed in jobs, or just under 5 percent. When I asked Turner about the numbers, he acknowledged, "We're not there yet" and predicted future improvement. He has replaced five of the original eight private subcontractors hired to run the program. He also said that some of the front-line staff, in their initial excitement, may have had unrealistic expectations. It's na 1/4ve to expect most clients to become dedicated job seekers overnight, he said. "The realistic model is, they make many trips to the door," testing the program, looking for shortcuts and eventually getting serious about work.
 For now, however, the job centers are clearly more successful in diverting people than in directly getting them jobs. And the Mayor argues that is appropriately so. Earlier this fall, I asked Giuliani which figures would prove the better measure of success: the diversion rates, or the job-placement numbers? "Both are important," he said. "But if you ask me for order of priority, the most important number is decreasing the numbers of people dependent on the government to support them -- because, after all, that's really government's role." In setting up the job-search program, he said, the city was temporarily performing a task that, "when things straighten out, government really shouldn't have to do, which is to find jobs for people."
This may strike many New Yorkers as a constricted view of society's responsibility for the poor. But Giuliani left no doubt as to what he wants to do: "The first thing that I look at is considerably fewer numbers of people having to come to the government to say, 'Give me a check.' "
 
How the 'Welfare Capital of the World' Grew and Grew
 When the Mayor vowed to end welfare last summer, he did so pointer in hand, standing beside a chart that traced the exploding caseloads of the 1960's. At that decade's dawn, 250,000 recipients. Thwwaaack! Twelve years later, 1.1 million. Thwwaaack! "This wasn't an accident, it wasn't an atmospheric thing, it wasn't supernatural," Giuliani said. "This is the result of policies and programs designed to have the maximum number of people get on welfare." In railing against "the philosophy that was embraced in the 1960's," Giuliani is not just offering the standard deprecation of the age. In theory and practice, welfare did undergo a revolutionary change.
 In an early draft of his presentation, Giuliani even rounded out his history by citing the two Columbia University professors whose audacious role in the welfare explosion is now all but forgotten. In plotting what they called the "flood-the-rolls, bankrupt-the-cities strategy," Richard A. Cloward and Frances Fox Piven literally set out to destroy local welfare programs. By drowning the cities in caseloads and costs, they hoped to build support for a more generous Federal solution, preferably a guaranteed national income. What's also all but forgotten now is that the strategy almost worked.
 Curious about the period that serves as Giuliani's foil, I sought out Cloward and Piven shortly after the Mayor's speech. The Dutchess County home where they spend their summers is a serene place to contemplate welfare militancy. Piven's gardening gifts were on luxuriant display, with sunflowers outside her window and fresh vegetables on her lunch table. At 72, Cloward is a gruff, distracted figure with a habit of pacing the room. Piven, 65, and now teaching at the City University of New York, has lost little focus or ferocity.The spiraling rolls, the indignant protests, the saturation of welfare with due process rights -- much of what Giuliani deplores is symbolized by Mobilization for Youth, the famous program that Cloward helped found, and Piven helped staff, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Though it quickly became the model for the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty and a forerunner of the national Legal Services program, poverty per se was not the focus when the program started in 1962. Cloward was an expert on juvenile delinquency, and Mobilization's storefront offices were established to work with youth gangs.
 But as soon as they opened, the program was overwhelmed by destitute families facing crises: eviction notices, empty refrigerators, closets without winter coats. Many were recent black migrants from the south, fleeing Jim Crow and the mechanization of the farm. They needed money, not youth-gang theory, and they needed it right away. The welfare department was not only disinclined to help; it actually gave some of them bus tickets home. Whatever Mobilization's original intent, Cloward said, "the workers began focusing on getting these families on welfare -- it was something they could do."
 With effort, anyway. Though the rolls had already begun to rise at the end of the 1950's, the welfare agency still had considerable discretion to turn people away. There were residency laws, home visits and midnight raids; mothers deemed morally unfit were routinely barred from aid. In a 1964 study, Cloward and Piven estimated that at least half and perhaps as many as three-quarters of the eligible families in New York were not receiving benefits.
 The Mobilization strategy for representing them can be summed up in a word: aggression. "They argued and cajoled; they bluffed and threatened," Piven later wrote of the program staff. They (and others) also sued, winning the welfare poor a series of due process rights. By 1966 the New York rolls had doubled to 500,000, a figure not seen since the end of the Depression. Through similar efforts, corresponding increases spread across most Northern industrial cities.
 Though it has been much maligned in retrospect, it is easy to see, in the context of the times, the appeal of a relief expansion. Appalled at the racial terror of the South, Northern liberals saw the country's very future at stake in their efforts to redress the nation's injustices. Providing the destitute with material relief seemed a logical place to start. But by 1966, Cloward and Piven had glimpsed the makings of something bigger.
 In an article in The Nation, they called for elevating the situation into "a profound financial and political crisis" through a "massive drive to recruit the poor onto the rolls." Tactically, they recommended "bureaucratic disruption in welfare agencies," "cadres of aggressive organizers" and "demonstrations to create a climate of militancy." Strategically, they hoped to place local officials in a box. If officials could not raise taxes (and alienate voters) or cut benefits (and risk riots in a riot-prone age), what would they do? They would call for a Federal guaranteed income, the two predicted, which could bring "an end to poverty."
 The article generated a sensation on the left, with requests for reprints running 30,000 strong. Shortly after, the National Welfare Rights Organization was born, and the age of full-fledged welfare militancy was officially under way. In Washington, demonstrators occupied the office of the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. In New York, the organization's members blocked the checkout line at Korvette's, telling the department store to bill the welfare agency for their purchases. "Harassment, giving ultimatums, overwhelming centers is our greatest tactic," declared a National Welfare Rights pamphlet. In Cloward and Piven's view, the confrontations were essential, because society responds to the needs of the poor only when the poor themselves demand it.
 As predicted, the bureaucracy's first response was to open up the tap. Under Mayor John V. Lindsay, New York reduced its application to a single page of self-declared need, and its Welfare Commissioner became known to detractors as Mitchell (Come and Get It) Ginsberg. From 1966 to 1972, the city's caseload doubled again. Likewise as Cloward and Piven predicted, enthusiasm grew for replacing welfare with a guaranteed national income. One such plan passed the House of Representatives in 1971, only to fail in the Senate a year later.
 With the plan's defeat came the movement's demise, but welfare had been fundamentally transformed. The poor now had procedural rights, and the number of recipients remained high. But two kinds of prices were paid. Bureaucratically, welfare agencies essentially became rickety check-writing machines. True social workers were derided as paternalistic intruders, and they were replaced by low-skilled clerks overwhelmed by the mass of their work. Politically, the backlash was swift. Support for a welfare entitlement never ran deep (it was largely established through the courts), and by the end of Lindsay's reign, he, too, was trying to stem the rise of the rolls. The backlash continued for decades. In recent years, reinvented liberals -- most notably, Bill Clinton -- have argued that stricter welfare laws are essential to rebuilding political support for the poor. But Cloward seemed weary and annoyed when I asked if he had worried about backlash, saying animosity toward the poor is a given.
 "We knew that trouble was coming," he said. "Our view is the poor don't win much, and they only win it episodically. You get what you can when you can get it -- and then you hold onto your hat."
 
What the Mayor Believes
 A Kennedy Democrat in the 1960's, Giuliani says he was initially sympathetic to the rising welfare rolls. "I thought of it as, 'This is just a natural extension of the New Deal and these are temporary measures that are being put in place that will give people a period of time to put their lives together,"' he said. But by the time he took office in 1994, he had another view. Welfare itself had not figured in his campaign, though it was part of the broader disorder he had pledged to police. More to the point, it was increasingly expensive. The rolls had grown 33 percent in the Dinkins years, and with a $2 billion budget deficit, Giuliani needed targets to cut. Borrowing workfare initiatives and fraud-detection plans that had cut the rolls in Westchester County, Giuliani put both into play on an unexpectedly large scale.
 In New York, the man in the street may have as much hostility toward welfare as people anywhere else. But the city does have a uniquely resourceful network of welfare advocates and lawyers. The local judiciary is liberal. The intellectual elite is hostile toward workfare. And so are municipal unions, who rightly understand that welfare recipients armed with brooms are a threat to their members' jobs. Giuliani overcame the opposition in his usual holy-war style. When the unions resisted workfare, he talked up the government privatization plans that could leave them all without jobs. When the Assembly balked at his finger-imaging identification plan, he started it with city funds.
 Among the weapons not to be underappraised is the famous Giuliani temper. The welfare program is filled with lore of the Mayor (and his former assistant, Richard Schwartz) making high-decibel demands for faster, more aggressive action -- and, above all, utter secrecy. With daily control in Schwartz's hands at City Hall, even the Mayor's first two Welfare Commissioners, Marva Hammonds and Lilliam Barrios-Paoli, were often out of the loop. "They did not have the same strong philosophical commitment I have," Giuliani told me. The tight control fed the critics' fears, but Giuliani said it was crucial. "My philosophy," he said, "has been, first make the changes and have them moving in a very, very strong way -- then, announce them." At that point, "there isn't terribly much that people that oppose it can do."
 In downtown Brooklyn, a building crowded with cops and computers gives one glimpse of the new age. While otherwise shedding city employees, Giuliani stocked the welfare agency with 1,500 new fraud investigators. They now screen every applicant twice, first in the Brooklyn center and then in a home visit. The blatant, multiple-identity fraud of popular legend is rare (though not unheard of, as seen in the phony birth certificates the office director collects in his desk). Still, about 40 percent of the city's applicants fail to survive the screening. More than half of them simply do not show up, and the others typically have modest amounts of excess assets or income, like an unreported savings account. If Ginsberg's moniker was "Come and Get It," Giuliani's might be "Go Ahead and Try."
 But the ultimate signature of the Giuliani years is the Work Experience Program -- workfare, that is -- in all its leaf-raking, lot-cleaning, lawsuit-generating sprawl. With up to 37,000 participants a month, the program itself is larger than the entire caseloads of 29 states. Merely to process that many people into the field, the Mayor had to commandeer the 14th Street Armory.
 The sight of so many rakes and brooms brings more reactions than Rorschach's inkblots. "Truly terrifying," says Liz Krueger, an anti-poverty advocate who worries that the falling rolls may leave children hungry. "Lawless," says Marc Cohan, the welfare rights attorney who has led the legal opposition. The Mayor, on the other hand, sees the ubiquitous orange workfare vests as the signposts of a Golden Age. "It's the answer to all of the quest for an urban agenda that the liberal elite, if you want to call it that, has been looking for for 30 years," he said.
 Operationally, a work program thrown together this fast will have its deplorable moments. And this one certainly has. The affidavits in a lawsuit over working conditions were so gruesomely compelling that they made the "Readings" section of Harper's Magazine. (Anastacio Serrano, age 44: "When I picked up the animals with my bare hands to throw them into the garbage truck, the guts splattered on my shoes and pants.") While the general conditions are considerably improved, questions persist about the treatment of the medically needy. The agency was shaken last year when Marsha Motipersad, a 50-year-old woman with a history of heart trouble, died of a heart attack on her lunch break. (She had quit a private job and gone on welfare after her doctor warned her not to work.) A lawsuit by the Legal Aid Society charges that the assignments doled out in the field often fail to accommodate the individual infirmities identified by the city's own doctors. The suit cites a woman barred from climbing stairs (because of emphysema) or riding elevators (because of claustrophobia). The city gave her a ninth-floor working assignment and cut her off for failing to comply.
 Whether this happens a lot or a little is a subject of dispute. But the core conflict goes deeper. There is no agreement on whether workfare "works," because there is no agreement on what it is supposed to do. Giuliani himself alternates between three quite different rationales. One is simply to cut the caseloads. ("The most impressive number is 460,000 fewer people now dependent.") A second is to prepare people for regular, wage-paying jobs. ("The best way out of poverty. . .is working your way out of it.") And a third is to construct a new social-contract that emphasizes everyone's obligations to contribute. ("In life, you have to give back.")
 When I asked about this, Giuliani seemed pleased to parse his priorities. "The social contract part is probably the most important," he said, because of "the lesson that reiterates about what life is really all about." He talked of "the wonderful things" the poor gave back through the Works Progress Administration during the Depression: "this building, that building, this garden, this park, this highway." But just a moment earlier he had made a different case, saying caseload reduction was "the more important part" of helping the poor because "as soon as they stop being dependent on the government they're moving in a much healthier direction."
 It seemed to me that these are not just different rationales. They are close to being opposites. The prima facie faith in falling caseloads says government aid is the problem. The nostalgic references to public works say government aid is the solution. The tension -- between enrolling the poor in workfare and deterring them from joining the rolls -- is pervasive in the agency's work. Indeed one could argue that it is part of the tension every time a caseworker sees a new client.
 But Giuliani doesn't see it that way. When I asked about the apparent contradiction a few weeks later, he said cutting the rolls and creating a new social contract "are both the same thing." The contract he seeks is not primarily one between government and the poor, he said; "it's also the social contract that people have with each other" through family, friends, neighborhoods and churches. "Those are the things that have to be rebuilt," and the government's main contribution is simply to get welfare out of the way. "It would be very counterproductive if government were even a critical part of it," the Mayor said, referring to the social contract. (So much for the W.P.A.) "Just the mere reduction in the number of people dependent on government is a very, very positive thing."
 Whatever the theory, there is no doubt that in practice, workfare cuts the rolls. The city's caseloads have fallen 37 percent since 1995, when the workfare expansion began. For the home relief population, the first to be enrolled, the decline has now reached 50 percent. One reason is that fewer people bother to apply if they know they have to work (especially if they already secretly have jobs, since they cannot be two places at once). And for those who do get aid, workfare makes it harder to keep.
 That is especially true in the home relief program, where recipients who miss a single hour of work can see their entire case closed. Indeed, a statistical snapshot adds to the suspicion that case closings are the point: last year, a disturbing 69 percent of the home relief clients in the work program wound up being "sanctioned" off the rolls. Many simply reapply a month or two later, in a process known as churning. "It's a fault of the system we're trying to correct," said Turner, who hopes to create a more personalized system of case management over the next year.
 There is also no doubt that the work program has given the city cleaner streets at lower costs. Schwartz, the former Giuliani aide, has valued the labor contributed by the welfare workers at more than $500 million a year. In that sense, Giuliani, against the odds, really does have the poor giving back. What is in doubt is whether the program leads to regular, wage-paying jobs, especially in a city where the unemployment rate is still 7.8 percent. "The real criticism, and the fair criticism, is you don't really know that they're going to work in the private sector," said Lawrence Mead, a professor at New York University and a Giuliani supporter who serves as a city consultant. Earlier this year, a state study of those leaving welfare (including but not limited to workfare participants) found just 29 percent had jobs; under Turner, the city did its own study and placed the rate at 54 percent. But he, too, has been surprised to find workfare workers in the same post for years. "People come up to you and say, 'I've been in this job for three years, can I have it?"' he said.
 Indeed, for all the concern about working conditions, one of the most surprising aspects of the workfare program is that many do not want to leave it. Right or wrong, they are convinced that they have no place better to go. On the work crew I followed for a day, four of the nine members had been raking leaves in Prospect Park for the past three years. Their esprit was noteworthy, perhaps even a sign of the civic rejuvenation Giuliani has in mind. "I like it out here," said a 59-year-old man named Frank, too shy to give his last name. "If I was sitting at home, I wouldn't be doing nothing but looking at the four walls." At the same time, he added, "I ain't looking for other work -- work is hard to find."
 
Everybody Working Means Everybody
 Like, say, the Normandy landing, a universal work requirement is conceptually simple but logistically beyond complex. When fully implemented, the 1996 Federal law will require just half the caseload to work at a given time, and many administrators have called that standard too ambitious. Giuliani plans to have everyone doing 20 hours of actual work, plus 15 hours of work-related activities, like drug treatment or education. Even if the job centers never let another new person on welfare, to keep his pledge Giuliani has to put to work the 244,000 unemployed adults already on the rolls.
 Most have problems. The city estimates that 21 percent have medical limitations. Another 8 percent are in drug or alcohol treatment. Still others are pregnant or caring for disabled relatives (4 percent each). And 16 percent are already in the penalty process, typically for past failures to accept a work assignment. Add other impediments, and the problems list grows to 63 percent. In other words, nearly two-thirds of the recipients Giuliani are trying to employ claim a limited ability to work.
 Herding them into a work program would be difficult anywhere, but it is especially hard in New York, where state law offers recipients unusual procedural protections. Anyone claiming an infirmity is entitled to a medical exam, and Turner, like others, insists that some recipients stop taking their medication to appear sicker than they are. (Whatever the medical problem, short of complete disability, the agency is vowing to find ways to accommodate it.)
 State law also limits penalties for noncompliance. While home relief clients lose their entire grants when they are "sanctioned" for not working, those receiving Temporary Assistance typically lose just a third. The smaller penalty protects women and children from utter destitution. But it also emboldens defiant clients: they can do nothing at all and continue to collect an average of $387 a month, plus food stamps. Indeed, despite Giuliani's push for work, there are still fewer people in the work program (30,100) than there are in the sanctioning process (42,000) or claiming medical limitations (53,000).
 Such arithmetic literally jolted Turner awake one night with the fear that the schedule was slipping. Designing the right work assignments -- desk jobs for those with bad backs, no dusting for people with asthma -- is only the first step in the race to the 2000 deadline to have everyone employed.
 Turner is filled with plans for services to wrap around the 20-hour work schedule: child-care expansions, drug-treatment programs, upgraded case management. "This was the year where we had to get the system under control and organized," he said. "Next year you'll see more of an emphasis on new services." He is particularly proud of an agreement just reached with the state vocational agency to place 18,000 medically limited recipients in an employment program; the city has agreed to pay up to $10,000 for each successful job placement. I visited a prototype of the program this fall and found it off to a good start. In his faith that raising expectations will do the poor much good, Turner could not have hoped for a better example than Carmen Espinosa. After 14 years on the rolls, and suffering from a bad back, she had lacked the confidence to apply for a job even at McDonald's. She was frightened when the program sent her to do community service in a kitchen at a day-care center. But she was stunned a few months later when the day-care center hired her into a $9-an-hour job.
 But the bureaucracy can only imagine the logistics still to come -- the logistics, say, of shuttling a drug-addicted mother between a work assignment and a treatment program while working around the child care schedules of her preschooler and second grader. Just thinking about the complexity, Turner said, "I kind of woke up with the shakes." And by dawn he settled on a plan: the agency would finish screening every recipient by the end of this year.
 One of the first showdowns involved recipients enrolled at the City University of New York. Convinced (with some reason) that the classes can be a strategy for avoiding work, Giuliani has insisted that students do 20 hours of workfare like everyone else. After obtaining a list of the school's enrollment, the agency was stunned to find in August that 12,000 recipients were taking classes -- including 5,000 who had claimed they were too sick to work. Turner decided to call them in and have them screened for workfare assignments.
 Anticipating their resistance, a career employee named Rose Manchell described a new tool -- a 26-item questionnaire that asks clients if they can "sit," "stand," "walk for short periods" or perform other minimal feats. The idea was to get them to admit they could do something. "Oh, they were slick!" Manchell reported back, during a meeting with Turner this fall. "The bottom line was they're too sick to do anything but go to school. Somebody said to me, 'I'm depressed!' I said, 'You're depressing me!"' Continuing her acerbic monologue, Manchell had the room in stitches. "What are you, a psychic? You saw on 'Oprah' that you can't work?" Then suddenly the sarcasm melted into something unexpected in a big-city bureaucracy: a pool of grandmotherly concern. "These are young kids -- 20- and 21-year-olds," she said, a few weeks before her retirement. "We've got to get to them."
 Punitive or pastoral, the questionnaire worked wonders. Of the first 560 students summoned, 70 percent accepted work assignments without further dispute. Turner then put the form to work in the larger call-ins off Union Square that were triggered by his late-night worries. Clients were lined up by 7:30 A.M. on the last Saturday of September as the great sifting of the poor began. Like Manchell's monologue, the effort showed dual elements -- questioning excuses and promoting work -- intertwined in the agency's efforts. Doubting a woman's contention that she cannot "bend," one caseworker cross-examined her into a confession that she sets her laundry basket on the floor. "So you can bend!" he said. But another spent 30 minutes trying to coax a depressed client into trying workfare, and when she failed she seemed disappointed mostly for the client herself. "If she is around people, it will make her feel better," the caseworker said. I counted two Nigerians, a Jamaican, a Russian and a Filipino among the dozen or so caseworkers I visited, and it was impossible to mistake their immigrant belief that, for all their problems, the welfare poor could do better. "Would you be able to work in an office, like what I'm doing?" one caseworker asked.
 The day ended in a standoff. Of the recipients who answered the summons, 44 percent accepted work assignments. And exactly the same percentage resisted, demanding additional medical exams. The same pattern continued throughout the fall. It's both an indication of Giuliani's progress toward his goal, and of the distance that remains in getting to universal work.
 
The Case of Maureen Scott
 As the first day was winding down, a spectacle erupted in the lobby. "They're going to kick me out of school!" screamed an outraged woman. "It's a system to keep black people down, so they can keep sailing in their yachts!" At first this seemed like just the usual office theater. But the events that led Maureen Scott to the office make hers a particularly sympathetic case. This is not Lester Collins.
 At 43, Scott has nearly two decades of work history behind her as a beautician and nursing aide. She went on welfare earlier this year, after a beating by her husband ended her marriage and broke the bones around her right eye. With two children now to support on her own, she needed a raise from her $7.50-an-hour part-time wage, and she decided the only way to get one was to earn a high-school degree. Still wearing a surgeon's patch, she enrolled in an equivalency-degree program. "I couldn't even see," she said, producing a student identification card that showed her bandaged face. "I was that determined to help myself."
 I later visited the Harlem apartment crowded with other signs of Scott's earnest efforts: the health-care certificates from a technical school; a personal computer for her children; the barber chair from the defunct business she tried to start as a beautician. Logistically, 20 hours of workfare would force her out of her all-day class. Spiritually, she viewed it as a capstone of degradation: after two decades of low-wage striving, her life had come to this. "How am I going to face my children, working in the streets?" she said. "Might as well call my husband, take the beating and let him pay the rent -- they're doing the same thing to me."
 Her language was overheated, but her concern is worth noting. The rigidness of the Giuliani program is both a strength (because it gets things done) and a weakness (because it tends to treat everyone alike). A woman who has never worked, a woman who has worked all her life -- the system presumes that workfare is the solution for both. Turner believes that it is the solution. "I'd be surprised if there was any instance in which work, as a component of the package, wasn't the best thing for the person to do," he said. Others in the agency think more discretion would be a plus, if only the caseworkers were talented enough to exercise it appropriately. Scott said: "I agree that some people abuse the system, but it shouldn't be that everyone suffers. They should look and individually supervise."
 And that was the point of a ruling this fall that brought the CUNY crackdown to a halt. As soon as the student roundup began, advocates raced into court to argue the universal use of workfare "makes a mockery" of a state law requiring individual assessments. A lower-court judge agreed and ordered the city to do individualized plans. For now, the ruling only affects the CUNY students (the agency allowed most of them to stay in school). But the same principle applied across the caseload could leave a universal work requirement significantly weakened. Arguing that welfare is not student aid, Turner said the program has plenty of room for individualization after the 20-hour work obligation is fulfilled. He predicts victory on appeal.
 
What Cutting the Rolls Amounts To
 Beyond the legal specifics, the CUNY case hints at a broader disagreement in the welfare debate. The student affidavits make most recipients seem like candidates for canonization. ("Once I got home, I would study until about 2:30 or 3 A.M.") The Giuliani effort often seems animated by the suspicion that every case is a con. ("Oh, they were slick!") How one views the program depends, to a considerable degree, on which of the two rings truer. One could say this is essentially a left-versus-right clash. But in fact it is more complicated than that, since each has its internal contradictions. If the welfare poor are really so striving, why are so many on the rolls for so long? Then again, if they are crippled with dependency, as Giuliani says, is it reasonable to expect that they will thrive on their own?
 It is hard to delve inside this bureaucracy without having some sympathy for Giuliani's effort to police it. Much as he said, the excesses of the old system promoted a something-for-nothing mentality offensive to the taxpayer and often harmful to the poor. "They should just give me my money," Lester Collins says. Who can argue, in theory at least, with reciprocal obligation? It is also hard to avoid doubting whether the bureaucracy can manage the change. An agency that cannot find a quarter of its files is ill positioned to reorder the lives of a quarter-million troubled New Yorkers.
 But the bigger worry about the Giuliani effort extends beyond logistics. It is that all the philosophical talk of a new social contract will prove to be just a cover for cutting the rolls. (This year, the city's savings in welfare and Medicaid are likely to exceed $800 million.) The withholding of food-stamp applications, the zeal for diversion, the hair-trigger workfare penalties -- in practice, all these things do less to offer the poor a new bargain than to encourage them to go away. Giuliani himself could not have put it more bluntly: "The first thing I look at is considerably fewer people having to come to the government to say, 'Give me a check."'
 To be sure, the enthrallment with falling caseloads is not limited to New York alone. It is the driving force of the new era, enshrined in its founding rhetoric: end welfare. But like the flood-the-rolls strategy that preceded it, the excessive faith in falling caseloads (to the extent that it's not just a political line) rests on a romantic vision of the poor -- many of whom need more order imposed on their lives, not less.
 Giuliani said his critics do not understand that "people on welfare are exactly the same as they are." In fact, the caseload sifting suggests the opposite, that the majority rank as troubled souls: depressed, illiterate, infirm, addicted. A generation ago, the left made the mistake of assuming a check was mostly what they needed. Now the right is on the verge of the same error, confusing the loss of an entitlement with a social elixir. When Giuliani says, "As soon as they stop being dependent on the government they're moving in a much healthier direction," he's making an outsize leap of faith. Swept up in exuberance in one of our talks, he offered this advice to the poor: "If you can't get a job, start a small business. Start a little candy store. Start a little newspaper stand. Start a lemonade stand."
 It is hard to know whether that is really what the Mayor believes. A new social contract would be welcome, and Giuliani has still got a year to deliver. But saving the poor from the welfare mess will take more than a pep talk and lemonade.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A welfare revolution undone: Above, welfare rights protesters on the Brooklyn Bridge in 1970 (U.P.I./ Bettmann/Corbis); right, a Harlem "job center" in 1998. (Jake Chessum for The New York Times)(pg. 50); The welfare archipelago: From left, Adrianne Fleming (standing), director of the city's first job center; Lester Collins, who cannot get on the rolls; a client being screened for a work assignment. (pgs. 52 & 53); Turner and his bureaucratic foot soldiers seek to put a quarter million welfare recipients to work. (Photographs by Dana Lixenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 54); Welfare rights at a peak: Top, demonstrators marching to Governor Rockefeller's office in 1969 to warn against welfare cuts (Eddie Hausner/The New York Times); bottom, the academics Richard A. Cloward and Frances Fox Piven, the leading advocates of welfare militancy in the 60's. (Lawrence Frank)(pg. 57); Giuliani at a Harlem job center: Seeking a new social contract or just looking to cut the rolls? (Photograph by Jake Chessum for The New York Times)(pg. 58); This poster and the posters on the following pages are from the city's Human Resources Administration. (pgs. 52, 55, 56, 59)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMT (PAR) (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OUTREMER TELECOM (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (66%); DIABETES (66%); LIVER DISEASE (66%); COLORECTAL CANCER (52%); HYPERTENSION (51%); 

PERSON: RUDOLPH W GIULIANI (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



420 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 41; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: ART / ARCHITECTURE;
In Los Angeles, Set-Dressing the Subway

BYLINE: By DAVID HAY; David Hay is a playwright and journalist who writes about the arts from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
WHEN the Red Line subway station on the corner of Beverly Boulevard and Vermont Avenue opens here next year, the first thing commuters will see is a giant outcropping of sandy-colored rock that straddles the entrance. Looming ominously over the escalators down to the trains, it looks like a leftover from the desert scenes in "Raiders of the Lost Ark."
"I wanted to reveal the relationship of the subway to its geological environment," said George Stone, a sculptor commissioned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to enliven this station. "Architecture in general tends to hide the fact of its location, even the fact, in this case, that we are underground." 
 What Mr. Stone calls his "art rocks" -- three more of the prefabricated boulders hang from the roof of the pristine, marble-floored station below -- are part of one of the most imaginative public art programs in the country. Though other cities, including New York, have major subway art initiatives, Los Angeles is distinct for insisting that artists be included at the planning stages.
"What is exciting about this program is the experimental way in which the art has been worked into the design process right from the beginning," said Elizabeth Smith, a curator at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art. "A subway station used to be the province of the engineer and the architect. Now the artist has been allowed to to have a profound impact on the physical aspect of the space."
This impact was first evident in the small section of the Red Line that opened in June 1990. The contribution from artists has been expanded in the design of the next eight stops, which will extend the $2.75 billion line from downtown to North Hollywood. Each station has been allocated $300,000 for art. Five of these stops are scheduled to open in May; the final three are to be ready a year later.
A quintessentially suburban city with no history of underground mass transit, Los Angeles has been slow to warm to the idea of a subway. The project has been dogged by controversy from its beginning in 1986.
In 1995, tunneling at the corner of Normandie Avenue and Hollywood Boulevard caused a sinkhole wide enough to gobble up cars. During later excavation, sections of the famous boulevard near the Chinese Theater sank by more than a foot.
Then came opposition from homeowners above the Cahuenga Pass. They staged loud protests, ultimately unsuccessful, against the plan to tunnel under the Hollywood Hills and into the San Fernando Valley.
In November, the negative publicity helped insure passage of Proposition A, a countywide referendum, which prohibits use of M.T.A. money for further "below ground" projects, including the extension of the Red Line into the predominantly Hispanic neighborhoods of East Los Angeles.
Given the lukewarm public reaction, M.T.A. officials hope their ambitious Metro Art Program will promote a more positive image, even if the subway has a doubtful future.
"Art is a means by which we can give the community a sense of ownership and pride in their subway," said Maya Emsden, director of the program.
PROGRAM officials relied on neighborhood input, picking boards of community advisers to help design each station. Along with two outside art experts, these advisers chose the final plans.
In the case of Mr. Stone, a talkative devotee of environmental and narrative uses of sculpture, the agency got more than it bargained for. Some officials feared that the artist's rocks at the Vermont-Beverly Station were too suggestive of earthquakes.
"The board freaked," the 52-year-old artist recalled. "I went round and got letters from psychologists, who reassured us that the rocks would not scare off potential riders."
The Red Line station at Vermont Avenue and Santa Monica Boulevard bears the imprint of the minimalist artist Robert Millar. The 40-year-old Mr. Millar, who worked for 12 years as a lighting consultant on public works projects, suggested to the station's architect, Mehrdad Yazdani, that they create a space for street performers behind the large glass and steel wedge that towers over the entrance for the station. To illuminate this street-level plaza, which is next to Los Angeles City College, Mr. Millar collaborated with the designer, Teal Brogden, in drawing up giant, Coca-Cola red, cantilevered lights. Giant versions of movable bedside lamps, they give the station a powerful glow at night.
Mr. Millar, a Californian in the tradition of Robert Irwin, James Turrell and Ron Cooper, will make his greatest impact on the long, gray concrete entrance tunnel. This month the artist, a thoughtful, blond-haired beach dweller, is planning to paint the tunnel walls with 10,000 questions, ranging from "Does art seek meaning?" and "Does art avoid meaning?" to "Does the public transportation system make moral decisions?" and "How might tomorrow be different from today?"
The questions will be spelled out in Times Roman, a type font used by many newspapers (though not this one); Mr. Millar said he wanted "to refer back to a newspaper."
"Viewed from afar they serve to give a texture to the space," the artist said. Up close, he added, the riders can read each question.
"The majority aren't that important," Mr. Millar said. "But they're part of the process that leads you to ask the more important questions."
ON the wide concrete beams that cross the entrance-tunnel roof, the artist has erected compositions of blue, white and red fluorescent tubing. Opposite them, Mr. Millar placed a series of minimalist paintings made from poly-carbonate. Clear in some places, opaque in others, they subtly absorb the multihued light from his fluorescent strips.
Assigning different artists to each subway stop means no two stations will look alike.
"We wanted subway riders to know where they were by seeing the art," Ms. Emsden said. "It's a modern version of traditional signage."
May Sun, a soft-spoken, 44-year-old multimedia artist, is working on the stop at the economically depressed corner of Hollywood Boulevard and Western Avenue. She placed detailed reminders of what she called the corner's "neglected history" into the station's tiled walls and floors.
At the entrance, commuters will walk across a series of granite tiles, each of which bears the outline of a fossil: the molar of a mastodon, a camel tooth and the toe of a prehistoric horse. All were uncovered at the site during the long months of tunneling. Ms. Sun laid other tiles into the entrance, their surface patterns modeled on hobo signs -- familiar greetings left by one transient to another -- found in railway yards during the 1930's.
Photographic murals of railroad workers in Los Angeles, including those building this new subway, line a mezzanine wall. Smaller snapshots of neighborhood landmarks like the Variety Discount Bargain Saver store across the street are placed in the tiled entrance walls.
Inspired by the animals that once roamed the Hollywood Hills, Ms. Sun designed Matisse-like portraits of a cougar, a deer and a fish in red granite, which appear on tiles in the station's floor.
"I wanted to have a lot of different elements," said Ms. Sun, whose earlier work includes "L.A./River/China/Town," an installation project. "I thought the same people would be taking the subway on a daily basis and I wanted them to discover something new each time."
Michael Davis designed the station at the corner of Sunset Boulevard and Vermont Avenue. On a visit to the site eight years ago, the 50-year-old artist turned his eyes north and saw the Griffith Park Observatory, a local landmark that brought back childhood memories; Mr. Davis grew up in the Crenshaw District and could see the observatory from his home. Wanting to use the stop, which is flanked by three hospitals, to lift the spirits of riders, he decided to incorporate his memories into his design.
"I have a whole thing about the 1950's," said Mr. Davis, wiry and engaging, with short, silver-blond hair. "There was a real optimism about the future then. You could see it in their designs, even in the space stations they liked to draw."
The artist decided that his station would be an homage to "one of those imaginary spaceships." Mr. Davis's playful take on deep space is immediately apparent in the open, curving entry tunnel. The railings have different-sized orbs -- patterned after constellations -- set between bars. On the mezzanine level, riders will walk under a stainless-steel circular roof. Each of its silvery sheets has been punched with countless tiny holes. Lighted brightly from above, Mr. Davis's ceiling resembles a star-studded sky.
Choosing a more literal connection to the hospitals above, Mr. Davis created his version of the nine planets, circular cast-terrazzo tiles set in the marble floors. On each he etched an abstract medical image. The smallest is a replica of a virus as seen through a microscope. The next largest is Mr. Davis's rendering of the X and Y chromosomes.
"Astronomy is looking for the same things as medicine -- the origins of life," Mr. Davis said. "This was the best way of combining them."
The artist Magu, formerly known as Gilbert Lujan and a founding member of a group of Chicano artists known as Los 4our, took a much less abstract approach to his commission at Hollywood and Vine. The station is an homage to the movie industry.
On the street-level plaza, pedestrian shelters are topped by replicas of the Brown Derby, a white stretch limousine and the roof of Mann's, formerly Grauman's, Chinese Theater. A yellow-tiled pathway -- the artist's version of the Yellow Brick Road -- leads down the steps and through the winding mezzanine, where it ends facing two giant, old-fashioned projectors donated by Paramount. The station's roof is lined with now-obsolete 35-millimeter film reels, painted blue.
Magu has set 242 hand-painted tiles into the station's walls. Some are tributes to Hollywood's past; others, like the tiles depicting the elaborately made-over low-rider cars that cruise the boulevard at night, reflect the more recent history of this famous street.
The M.T.A. estimates that the opening of the Red Line will increase the ridership of its countywide rail system to more than 200,000 commuters a day, compared with the one million Angelenos who board buses every day. Agency officials hope the numbers riding the subway will rise, and say that the art-adorned stations will be not only inviting but stimulating, and will relieve the dreary waiting that is an unavoidable part of the transit experience.
Still, the M.T.A. is not taking any chances that its art will go unseen. For those Angelenos who remain wary of mass transit, yet still want to view these Red Line stations, the agency is sponsoring art tours.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Stone's rock formation at the entrance to the Beverly Boulevard and Vermont Avenue station reflects local geology. May Sun evoked the neighborhood's past at Hollywood Boulevard and Western Avenue. (Photographs by Ted Soqui for The New York Times)(pg. E41); Robert Millar's entrance tunnel at Vermont Avenue and Santa Monica Boulevard. (Ted Soqui for The New York Times)(pg. E43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); LOS ANGELES CITY COLLEGE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CITY COLLEGE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; ART; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); SUBURBS (73%); THEATER (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); REFERENDUMS (67%); 

PERSON: HAY, DAVID; STONE, GEORGE; SUN, MAY; MILLER, ROBERT DAVID STONE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



421 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Signs of Renewal in the Latest British Invasion

BYLINE: By WILL JOYNER; Will Joyner, a former editor for Arts and Leisure, writes frequently about film and television.

 BODY:
THIS week, five films that can legitimately be described as British will be showing in American theaters. Given the anxiety of holiday marketers, that number is in itself an eye-popper. What's more surprising, though, is that not one of these British films is about expendable laborers trying to salvage self-regard in a renovated upland city, or about young professionals contemplating themselves in the sleek surfaces of the new London.
These films -- "Elizabeth," "Little Voice," "Shakespeare in Love," "The General" and "The Theory of Flight" -- don't represent anything as grand as the renaissance of a national industry that looked so healthy in the 1960's and then again in the 1980's. The vagaries of multinational financing and staffing make such a notion a dated one anyway. But the films' variety -- from sly revisionism on the Elizabethan era to speculation about love and Lou Gehrig's disease -- is the sign of a heartening creative reawakening. The sort of Yank Anglophile who thinks back to classics like "Room at the Top," "Sunday, Bloody Sunday," and "My Beautiful Laundrette" more readily than to television's "Upstairs, Downstairs" should at least start paying closer attention to the new images of Britain that are sneaking now onto movie screens in the United States. 
 Early this year, the British cinematic presence here was less distinct, and less encouraging. "Nil by Mouth," the actor Gary Oldman's grim depiction of his origins amid a working-class mire of violence and addiction, was an impressive directorial debut but almost willfully incoherent, in structure and dialogue. Mike Leigh's "Career Girls" had a razor-sharp poignance because Katrin Cartlidge and Lynda Steadman were so perfectly in form as newly mature women who meet again and reflect on their dissolute student days. That movie nevertheless felt like a minor chapter in Leigh's admirably idiosyncratic chronicling of contemporary, class-skewed England.
More to the point, and more disturbingly, a film called "Twenty-four Seven," the debut of a young director, Shane Meadows, found its way into American release. Set in decayed Nottingham, "Twenty-four Seven" starred Bob Hoskins as an alcoholic who tries to align his own recovery with that of a crew of unemployed miscreants by reopening a boxing club. Despite a searing performance by Hoskins, the film left the impression that it was simply a black-and-white, indie-hip exercise on a socio-cultural theme that had recently been more adeptly explored in "Brassed Off"(out-of-work miners maintain their identity through a brass band), "The Full Monty' (out-of-work steelworkers maintain their identity through bump-and-grind dancing) and, in its own way, "Trainspotting" (out-of-work young people maintain their identity through heroin).
The implication was that the same amusing-but-painful, stiff-upper-lip movie was going to be made over and over again until all Britons were somehow integrated into the post-industrial economy. Then, in late spring, from across the genre spectrum, came "Sliding Doors" and "Shooting Fish." For all their quirky angles and the charms of Gwyneth Paltrow and Kate Beckinsale, respectively, these films implied that the London romantic comedy was still following a course set four long years ago by "Four Weddings and a Funeral." It was a relief when "The Land Girls," an earnest, well-made drama about the home front during World War II, appeared in early summer. "The Land Girls" may have been predictable, but it was what the British predictably do best: evoking that part of the 20th century in which Britain was still arguably the center of the world.
Earlier this fall, the best British film to open in United States theaters, "Velvet Goldmine," was actually an American film, or, at least, was directed by an American, Todd Haynes. That film -- a scary fable about the glam-rock scene in the London of the early 70's, starring Jonathan Rhys-Meyers and Ewan McGregor, financed on both sides of the Atlantic -- represents a good argument for no longer even speaking of British film, or American film, or Irish film. These days, anyone who, through the good graces of Working Title or BBC Films or Miramax, can avoid the Hollywood maw and put together a distinctive piece of work occupies creative territory that is, practically speaking, just as special as a homeland. "The General," which opened on Friday, presents the same argument: although it was directed by an eminent Englishman, John Boorman, the movie is, after all, about a notorious Irish gangster, Martin Cahill; it was filmed in Dublin, and it stars a red-hot Irish actor, Brendan Gleeson. And Boorman himself lives in Ireland.
That said, "The General" does have the feel of a film made by a British director. Cahill's brutal story is told almost as that of an Everyman, with an odd but effective mix of intimacy and restraint; the details of Irish political life are present, certainly, but are rendered in a peripheral manner that would be unimaginable if the subject matter were in the hands of a romantic, of Irish directors like Neil Jordan or Jim Sheridan. "The General" is British in the sense that it is planted in a tradition that also includes memorable works like Karel Reisz's "Saturday Night and Sunday Morning" (1960) and Tony Richardson's "This Sporting Life" (1963), which also center ambivalently on rogue heroes.
The four other British films in American theaters now may not be as accomplished as "The General," but they perhaps say even more about where one should search hopefully for a renewed British cinema. "Little Voice," Mark Herman's adaptation of the play about an emotionally damaged young woman with a gift for imitating great singers, has some of the same overly melodramatic structure of his "Brassed Off." Here, however, there is a range of darker, more intricate acting -- especially on the part of Jane Horrocks in the title role, Brenda Blethyn as her hysteric mother and Michael Caine as a never-has-been promoter -- that tempers Herman's sentimentalism, making for a more mature movie.
As for approaches to Britain's past, it's possible to imagine a stock, pedantic screen account of the young Elizabeth I, but Shekhar Kapur's "Elizabeth" is surely not that. The Protestant-Catholic gamesmanship that surrounded her ascendancy is depicted in all its soul-staining terror, and Cate Blanchett, although she's as gorgeous as ever, leads the way in working against any notion that beauty and truth and goodness were the order of the day. As for "Shakespeare in Love," no one will accuse John Madden of not venturing from the traditional approach to a British icon that he took to such fine effect last year in "Mrs. Brown."
If there is still such a thing as British film, then one of the primary things going for it is a large pool of extraordinary actors -- if they can be persuaded to touch base between more lucrative Hollywood sojourns for long enough to make movies. In that regard, "The Theory of Flight," which opens on Wednesday, is greatly encouraging.
It's a small, eccentric film but boasts two big, talented stars, Helena Bonham Carter and Kenneth Branagh, who clearly relish art as much as opportunity. As flawed as the film may be -- and the metaphor-heavy attempt by a troubled artist (Mr. Branagh) to build a flying machine gets a bit much -- Ms. Bonham Carter, who plays a victim of Lou Gehrig's disease, offers up ample revelatory moments. Her performance is a reminder that a British film is often the occasion for an acting accomplishment that's larger than the movie itself; Robert Carlyle's powerful presence in Michael Winterbottom's "Go Now" is another example from the last year.
Flight imagery abounds in the current crop of British films -- in "The General" and "Little Voice," pet homing pigeons carry the burden -- and in this context, the irony is obvious. British cinema has always had trouble keeping its best directors from flying the coop -- or, more accurately, has had trouble persuading them to persuade Hollywood that the coop's an interesting spot to revisit, as their Irish counterparts have managed to do with movies like "The Boxer." One of Britain's best directors, Stephen Frears, had a movie open on Friday. It's called "The Hi-Lo Country," and the title refers to New Mexico, not the Lake District.
Perhaps the best wish that one could make for British film is that Mr. Frears turn back to another film based on a Roddy Doyle novel, or that Mike Newell return home from "Donnie Brasco" and "Pushing Tin," his forthcoming movie about American air-traffic control.
On the other hand, who needs them? There's a lot to be said for simply looking forward to January and Ken Loach's "My Name Is Joe."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Early in the year, Mike Leigh's "Career Girls," with Mark Benton and Lynda Steadman, above, and Gary Oldman's "Nil by Mouth," with Charlie Creed-Miles, Jamie Forman and Ray Winstone, left, did not provide much encour-agement about the state of British film. A current crop of imports is more prom-ising, including "The Theory of Flight," with Kenneth Branagh and Helen Bon-ham Carter, below at left, and "Elizabeth," with Cate Blanchett, below.
(A. Rogers/Fine Line Features)(Jack English/Sony Pictures Classics)(Joss Bar-ratt/October Films)(Alex Bailey/Gramercy Pictures)(pg. 13); Bob Hoskins, left, with Danny Nussbaum in "Twenty-four Seven." (Joss Barratt/October Films)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: FORM AS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MINE WORKERS (72%); BOXING (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (52%); 

PERSON: JOYNER, WILL CATE BLANCHETT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



422 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 2; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Yonkers;
As Bells Toll, a Church Celebration Takes Its Place in a City's Rebirth

BYLINE: By LYNNE AMES 

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
IT was Dec. 8, the feast of the Immaculate Conception, and John Cardinal O'Connor was at St. Mary's Immaculate Conception here to consecrate an altar at the 150-year-old church.
At 7 P.M. just before the Mass, the bells in the Romanesque church's tower began to toll. Over and over they echoed throughout the canyon of South Broadway, the sound reverberating between City Hall and the high-rise office and apartment buildings and the old stone church itself. In each of the rectory's many windows shone a green wreath studded with tiny red lights. On the church steps parishioners and guests and a handful of police officers awaited the arrival of the Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. An air of festivity and something more prevailed. 
 For this was not only the consecration of an altar made of black stone mined at the DiRienzo Quarry a few miles to the north. (Yes, there is a quarry in Yonkers, right on Fullerton Avenue.) This was also part of a rebirth of a city beset in recent years by economic and other woes, a city whose downtown is only now experiencing a spark of new energy. St. Mary's, said its pastor, Msgr. Hugh Corrigan, is a microcosm of Yonkers itself. The parish, which covers five square blocks around Getty Square, was originally made up of immigrants from Ireland and Italy and Eastern Europe and was then largely populated by their descendants and finally saw a wave of newcomers from Latin America and the Middle East.
"Our last 30 years are like our first 30 years," Monsignor Corrigan said. "We have always been known as a warm church, a friendly church in which to pray. Our first parishioners were Irish, fleeing from the terrible famines in 1845 through 1852. They did hard manual labor, built railroads and crushed rocks in Yonkers. We still have their great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren. Our newest members are Hispanic and Arabic; many of them own small businesses and are a vital part of downtown life here. Our 9 A.M. Mass is in Spanish; our 1:15 Mass is in Arabic.
As for the Cardinal, he was resplendent in white robes and, during the procession, a miter. His sonorous voice filled the sanctuary; his graceful, long-fingered hands gestured with a language of their own as he rubbed oil into the new altar's bare stone surface. "Consecrating an altar is virtually a mystical experience," he said. "Let us give ourself totally and unconditionally to this revelation of mystery that unfolds before our eyes. Had there been no Mary, there would be no altar. Every altar is Mary's altar. Let us join with Mary in consecrating this one."
Nor was the altar -- a simple, table-like structure of dark stone -- the only object of the Cardinal's attention. He pronounced the entire church magnificent, and indeed it is. Termed American Romanesque by Monsignor Corrigan, it is made of hewn stone and features arches, vaulted ceilings, pristinely restored details and walls and ceilings painted in peachy, terra cotta tones and a blue suggestive of the blue of Mary's robes. The original church, completed in 1848, is now used as St. Mary's school; the current sanctuary and rectory were built in 1892. The old altar is intricately wrought white marble, with tall, carved, dramatically backlighted statuary.
"This church is very, very beautiful," Cardinal O'Connor said. He added, however, that amid the beauty, one should never forget suffering: the "terrible, terrible conditions" that the early Irish immigrants endured as they cut stone similar to the ones used in the new altar, the suffering of Christ on the cross.
As the Cardinal performed the ritual for the new altar, he gave a kind of running commentary, much the way a member of the archdiocese narrates the action at St. Patrick's Cathedral, which is televised for the Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve.
He began talking about the Virgin Mary, saying that God made her "totally free of sin -- you couldn't even use the word sin in the same room as Mary -- because she was going to be the altar of His Son; she was going to conceive His Son on the altar."
The Cardinal took a small pitcher filled with olive oil and five times poured some on the altar. "Now we pour oil in five places onto the altar," he said. "It represents the five wounds of Christ. Then I will rub it in." He circled the structure, ran his hands over the surface, then looked at them. "One is touching the body of Christ in the womb of Mary; one is touching Christ in the tomb. I feel this all as I rub the sacred oil in with my hands."
Next came the lighting of incense -- "We see the smoke as prayer, ascending into heaven," he said -- and the laying of a cloth on the altar and the placement and lighting of candles on it. Together, Cardinal O'Connor and the congregation prayed.
Among them was Mary Delaney, 81, who lives with her daughter and son-in-law in northern Yonkers. She grew up near St. Mary's and still attends Mass there every Sunday. "Even though I don't live that near here anymore, I come every Sunday," she said. "I come in a cab and go home in a bus."
Also at the service was Dr. Bernard McGinn, professor of theology at the University of Chicago Divinity School. Dr. McGinn came to see the altar consecrated. "I grew up in this parish," he said. "I was an altar boy here. This church is very beautiful. Religion is more than esthetics, of course, but esthetics -- beauty -- are important."
Walter J. McLain, a retired police officer and usher at the church, agreed. "I've been coming to St. Mary's since I got out of the Army in 1946. It's not my parish anymore, but I still come here. It's a real beauty. And, it gives me a sense of stability."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Procession at start of the ceremony at St. Mary's Immaculate Conception in Yonkers, above, for the consecration of an altar at the 150-year-old church. John Cardinal O'Connor with Msgr. Hugh Corrigan, above left, and Cardinal O'Connor, left. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (75%); IRELAND (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (75%); IRELAND (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ST MARY'S IMMACULATE CONCEPTION CHURCH (YONKERS, NY); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (71%); FAMINE (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); 

PERSON: AMES, LYNNE CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



423 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/John Weichsel;
Municipal Manager With Tenure Plus

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
JOHN WEICHSEL has been a municipal manager for 43 years, and the Town Manager of Southington for 31 years, a record that gives him more tenure than 99 percent of his peers across the country. This year, he also became the first appointed official to be named president of the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, a post that has traditionally gone to elected officials.
Mr. Weichsel was born in Germany, and immigrated to this country in 1934, at the age of 1. He attended the the University of Pennsylvania, then earned his master's degree at the Fels Institute of Local and State Government there. After stints in Kalamazoo, Mich., and Ellenville, N.Y., he was hired as the first town manager in Southington on Oct. 11, 1966. 
 A tireless advocate for more state funding for towns, Mr. Weichsel also argues strongly that the legislature should impose fewer mandates that require expensive programs.
Among the areas where he has become a recognized expert is the so-called heart and hypertension law, which provides for automatic disability payments to police and firefighters who develop heart problems, under the blanket presumption that those conditions were related to their employment.
He is known as an outspoken town manager -- he once suggested that computer programmers all over the world should be assassinated for not recognizing and addressing the so-called year 2000 problem long before the late 1990's.
In a recent interview, Mr. Weichsel answered questions about his longevity as town manager, and the changes that he has observed. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. What made you decide to become a city manager?
A. My father was a very dedicated physician and I grew up with the idea of public service. When I went to the University of Pennsylvania, I had in my mind a legal career. But I took some political science courses in my sophomore year, when I was still 16, and I was fascinated by government management. It seems to have been a good choice.
 Q. When you came to Southington did you expect to be here more than 30 years?
 A. No. I was asked how long I expected to stay, and my kids were 7 and 3, so I said until my kids get through school. So about 10 or 12 years was the goal. About the middle of my time here I made applications to a larger city. It got out that I had applied, and the community was thrilled that I didn't get the job. That sort of influenced me to not give much more thought to moving on.
 Q. Don't you lack an advantage of other town managers? You can't blame anything on a predecessor.
 A. That's right, On the other hand, they have nothing to compare to. I like to say, I'm the best town manager Southington has ever had.
 Q. How have you managed to last so long?
A. At the risk of being more immodest than usual, I think intelligence is pretty important. You've got to be pretty smart, otherwise you're going to be crushed. My training in graduate school was very strong. Every day we did field work for Philadelphia city departments. When our academic work was done we got a six-month internship. So I got a very good start.
And I think my personality was probably helpful. You can't be a Casper Milquetoast if you're the first manager. If you're too soft, you're going to go nowhere. Now I don't mean to suggest you take over the government -- I'm an employee, not a boss here. But you've got to be forthright, and that's the way I am.
 Q. Has your reputation for being outspoken hurt you in this era of political correctness?
 A. No, because I follow the city managers' code of ethics, and stay out of partisan matters. When I speak out on public issues, I make very sure I am speaking for the council. One of the ways I have survived is not to challenge my bosses. There are times that I make recommendations, and they don't agree. And there are times when I have been wrong.
 Q. How has Southington changed since you arrived?
 A. When I came it was a town of about 27,000, and now it's about 40,000. It was viewed as a totally blue-collar town, a place you would look for a starter house, and then when you got a little better off you would move to Simsbury or Avon or Farmington. Now Southington is a very desirable place for housing. When I came 5 percent of the people in town were college graduates, now it's 48 percent or something like that. We've lost Pratt & Whitney, which was our largest employer. But we've made up for it -- we now have three buildings of the Hartford Insurance Group, for instance.
 Q. Have the problems also changed?
 A. Labor relations were very difficult when I got here, and while they still can't be ignored, they've gotten better. In the last decade, environmental problems have become more important. When Pratt & Whitney left, economic development problems were at the forefront. Those changes keep the job interesting.
 Q. Are there aspects of the job that have gotten more difficult?
 A. Environmental areas. In my view, we've gotten into an overkill situation. There are people in charge of the environmental area who are excessive.
 Q. You've clashed with Southington's state legislator over an acquifer protection law. That would seem to be politically dangerous -- is that a good idea for a town manager?
 A. I haven't said the law is wrong, but we're very worried. We have an industrial zone in the northwest part of town, an enterprise zone. The indications I'm getting are that we wouldn't be able to have any development in that area under that law.
If we can have normal development over an acquifer, fine. But if they've taken the position that every industry is a polluter, that's wrong. You can have an industrial building that has zero pollution into the ground.
 Q. Southington's state senator also questioned the value of the city's participation in the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. How would you respond to that?
 A. That was one of the most obtuse statements I have ever heard in my life. The C.C.M. municipal revenue collection program will collect $17,000 or $18,000 this year, which is about what we pay in dues. We have our workers compensation insurance, run by C.C.M., which has saved us thousands and thousands of dollars. There are training programs, some of them required by law, such as sexual harassment training. If you didn't get them through C.C.M. you'd have to hire some Ph.D. to do them, at much greater cost. They enter electric rate cases to make sure our interests are represented.
And finally, C.C.M. is the voice of the cities in lobbying. In towns, we take the long view -- we will pay a little bit of money up front to save a lot of money in the long run. We're going to be here forever. There have been bills that would save money up front, but cost us a lot in the long run. If we didn't have C.C.M., we would have some pretty horrible legislation. As it is, we do -- C.C.M. is not totally effective -- but the value of C.C.M. is tremendous.
 Q. What has been the high point of your career?
 A. Helping to create the Bristol trash-to-energy plant. You may remember the Islip barge, which went all over the place looking for a place to dump their load of trash. Our own landfill had been closed, and we had been exporting garbage to a landfill in East Windsor, and they kept doubling rates.
I saw this as a tremendous environmental benefit. It would give us volume reduction, we would create electrical energy from the garbage, and have sophisticated air pollution controls. Then the question was, how do you do it? That plant cost $90 million. Well, New Britain and Berlin were also wondering what to do with garbage. Then I talked with Plainville, and they got interested.
But we still lacked two things: a place to build the plant, and a place to put the ash. Bristol had a 63-acre landfill, and room to build the plant. Bristol agreed to go with us. Then a few other towns also joined. Getting those towns together, and getting the financing, I view as my greatest personal accomplishment.
 Q. If you had a child going to college this year, would you recommend government management?
 A. Absolutely not. It's a very difficult profession. Of course, if you ask an architect what his son should do he'd say, "anything but an architect." An engineer? "Anything but an engineer." But I tell people there are fewer professional city managers than there are professional athletes -- only 2,500 of us. And you know how hard it is to be a Tiger Woods or a Michael Jordan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Weichsel, Southington Town Manager. "I'm an employee, not a boss here. But you've got to be forthright." (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHINGTON (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERVIEWS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); HYPERTENSION (52%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; WEICHSEL, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



424 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Failed Shopping Plaza Becoming a Town Center

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
OVER the last decade the 614,000-square-foot Willingboro Plaza went from a vibrant regional shopping center to a ghost town -- 13 shuttered buildings spread over 56 acres at the western edge of the Burlington County Township of Willingboro.
An open-air mall, it fell victim to enclosed malls and big-box retailers. Now, Renewal Realty L.L.C., a Manhattan-based developer, plans, in partnership with the township, to transform the derelict property along Route 130 into a mixed-use development that will double as the town center for this community of 37,000. 
 The development, called Willingboro Town Center, will have up to 1.2 million square feet of new and renovated retail, light industrial and office and civic space and up to 240 town houses, as well as 3,000 parking spaces. Twenty-five percent of the project will be open space.
The 7.5-square-mile township is considering running a minivan service around town to the site and the state plans to construct light-rail line along the nearby Delaware River from Trenton to Camden.
Willingboro Plaza "was a blight that implied the rest of the town was decaying," said Lavonne Bebler Johnson, the acting Mayor.
Its redevelopment will change that and provide an "environment where people can live and work, and not shut down at night," she said.
The project is part of a larger redevelopment plan by Burlington County to revive the Route 130/Delaware River commercial corridor, which sits in the northwestern sector of the county and extends along the river and the highway through 12 towns, from Florence 16 miles south to Cinnaminson.
The corridor has suffered from blight and economic decline, leaving it pockmarked with empty buildings like those at Willingboro Plaza, which is one of four key sites the county has identified in its renewal effort.
The overall plan, which takes a regional approach to redevelopment, was devised after two years of discussions among state and county officials as well as the leaders and residents of the 12 corridor towns.
The corridor plan in general, and the Willingboro development in particular, also reflect the goals of the state's Development and Redevelopment Plan, which encourages growth in areas where sewers, highways and mass transit links are available. In less developed areas, where those facilities are lacking, the plan tries to manage growth by encouraging mixed-use and compact development.
At its heart, the corridor plan calls for reinventing the highway strip, now a dying retail hub, into a patchwork of light industrial, office and retail uses as well as housing.
"The market says that Route 130 is no longer the region's retail center and that its heyday is not coming back," said Mark Remsa, principal planner at the Burlington County Office of Land-Use and Planning. "But without making significant changes in the four targeted areas, nothing in the corridor can be preserved."
Willingboro Town Center will be developed in phases over the next five years at an estimated cost of $60 million to $70 million, including the $2 million needed to clean the site of low levels of hydrocarbons and rid the buildings of asbestos. The initial $20 million phase of the project, which includes the cleanup, began last month and last week demolition started on the first of the empty buildings -- 10 of which will be razed by the spring. The remaining three will be recycled into other uses.
THE first phase also calls for the construction of some 50 residences and 65,000 square feet of commercial and light industrial space in two buildings, as well as the renovation of an existing 100,000-square-foot two-story building for use by public institutions.
Negotiations are under way with the local library and Burlington County College to relocate from elsewhere in the township to the development, said Robert B. Stang, managing director at Renewal. The college and library are expected to open within the development in mid-2000, he said.
The first phase will be the anchor to get the project started, "creating enough of a catalyst that the rest will follow," Mr. Stang added.
Renewal will develop most of the property itself but will join other developers for certain components of the project, particularly the housing, Mr. Stang said. While he said the prices and styles of the units had not yet been set, they are expected to be a mix of rental and for-sale residences designed for professional couples and older households.
Explaining the significance of the Willingboro Town Center project, Theresa Brown, director of the Burlington County Board of Freeholders, said: "It sends the message that we are serious about the corridor plan and when the first buildings there come down it will be proof that something is going to happen."
Redeveloping the property is also important for Willingboro, which saw its tax base erode with the demise of the old shopping center. The loss of jobs as businesses closed also took a toll on this old farming-turned-bedroom community, which started its modern life in the 1950's as the nation's third Levittown, and the community briefly bore that name. The 11,000-house development built from 1957 to 1972 included Willingboro Plaza, which, like other retail outlets along Route 130, thrived through the 1970's.
In the early 70's, a section of Interstate 295 cutting through the county opened, shifting growth eastward to the south central portion of Burlington County. Within a decade, enclosed malls began popping up along I-295, drawing shoppers and businesses away from Route 130 and, Mr. Remsa said, "sapping the life" out of the corridor, including Willingboro Plaza, the largest portion of the more than a million square feet of vacant space along Route 130.
THAT set off alarms two-and-a-half years ago, prompting the county to come up with the corridor plan, which Mr. Remsa called "a roadmap for developers." The county has submitted the plan to the Office of State Planning for approval. If approved, he said, it would give all 12 corridor towns priority from state agencies for approvals and financing for physical plant and road improvements.
"It is one of the best regional planning efforts I've seen in the state and was done with widespread public and municipal support," said Herb Simmens, executive director of the semi-autonomous planning agency, referring to the corridor plan.
"It reinvests in existing places and it will be a model for redeveloping other obsolete highway strips."
In the last two years Willingboro also stepped up efforts to work with the former owners of Willingboro Plaza to turn it around -- all to no avail, said Mayor Belber Johnson. In 1997, she said, "we got tough with the owners," by enforcing municipal and fire codes, resulting in $900,000 in fines against them.
Last January the two parties struck a deal, under which Willingboro waived the fines against the owners. In turn, the plaza owners dropped their pursuit of a $98,000 tax reduction on the property and agreed to deed it over to the township. For its part, Renewal gave $175,000 to the owners and $25,000 to the township, the latter for costs in processing the fines, said William J. Kearns Jr., the township's attorney.
The township then entered an agreement with Renewal to redevelop the site. Under it the township sold $2 million in bonds to pay for cleaning up the site, which Renewal will repay, plus interest; declared it a redevelopment area and rezoned it to its current use. The township also agreed to phase in taxes over the next five years on any improvements to the site, Mr. Kearns said, adding that after Renewal cleans the site it has the option to purchase it.
Mayor Bebler Johnson said the township "took the risk" in taking over the property and selling the bonds "to prime the pump" for redevelopment. "If nothing was done the fear was that residents, "would start moving away," she added.
The project is "off to a good start because of the state, county and local support," said Mr. Stang of Renewal, adding that the reasonable land and cleanup costs along with the tax abatement "will enable us to be competitive."
"The site was once the center of town," he said, "and it will be again -- only different."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Willingboro Plaza, above, with Sears building at right. The first building to be demolished for the Town Center is the Fox Movie Theater, left. (Renewal Realty)
 
Map of Willingboro, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: RENEWAL REALTY LLC RENEWAL REALTY L L C (62%); WILLINGBORO TOWN CENTER (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENEWAL REALTY LLC WILLINGBORO TOWN CENTER (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLINGBORO (NJ); BURLINGTON COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; HOUSING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; OFFICE BUILDINGS RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); COUNTIES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ROBERT B STANG (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



425 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1755 words

HEADLINE: High Expectations Await Airline Arrival

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

DATELINE: RONKONKOMA

 BODY:
WHEN Southwest Airlines announced earlier this month that it will begin daily service from Long Island MacArthur Airport in mid-March, it signaled a new era for Long Island air travel.
For executives, budget-conscious flyers and Florida snowbirds, Southwest's promise of more flights to more places at low fares suddenly catapulted the regional airport in Ronkonkoma to what could be an important travel hub for Long Islanders and raised the possibility that Southwest's competitors would have to lower their fares. And a stronger airport could also have a measurable effect on the Island's economy. 
 "The potential for adding to the economy is enormous," said Lee. E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
The Southwest announcement, which capped weeks of speculation, came when the chairman of Southwest, Herbert D. Kelleher, announced 12 daily nonstop flights from MacArthur to four cities beginning on March 14.
The initial service will be to Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Midway Airport in Chicago, Orlando and Nashville. More flights and cities may be added later, Mr. Kelleher said, if the new service is successful.
The airport, which is used by more than a million passengers a year, is currently served by seven airlines offering a total of 60 flights a day, 10 of them jet service to various cities, but with an emphasis on leisure travel to Florida. The other airlines are American Airlines, Delta Express, Comair, Spirit Airlines, U.S. Airways Express, Sunjet International and Business Express.
Almost immediately, some of those competitors hinted at added service and fare cuts to meet the Southwest challenge. Others, including Spirit, said they expected that Southwest's presence would help fill their seats.
The reaction to the Southwest announcement from travelers, travel agents, businesses and Long Island officials was not quite thunderous applause, but close to it. Only neighbors sounded an alarm about expansion of the airport in a densely populated suburban area.
But for others there were enticements. Flights on Southwest's fleet of Boeing 737-700 jets, which can carry up to 149 passengers, will connect to Southwest flights to 29 other cites, lacing geographically adrift Long Island into a country-wide budget air service as never before.
What drew Southwest to Long Island, Mr. Kelleher said during a telephone news conference following the announcement, was an absence of low-fare service and what the company saw as a latent demand that Southwest would trigger.
"Our whole premise in opening up Islip is that we are going to do just fine with Long Island traffic," he said. He dismissed reports that MacArthur would be the first in a ring of airports around New York City where Southwest would locate, saying Southwest's focus in the region would be MacArthur.
The move by Southwest raised expectations that MacArthur, a 1940's-vintage Islip Town-owned airport that has had up-and-down experiences with other carriers, had at last been anointed a bona fide regional air hub.
"I am one happy camper," said Pete McGowan, the MacArthur supervisor, who began meeting with Mr. Kelleher two years ago to promote the airport. The town, he said, would earn an additional $500,000 in annual revenues because of the Southwest service.
The town sweetened its overtures to Southwest with a $13 million airport project now in progress to add parking and new baggage carousels, modernize ticketing areas, reconfigure terminal security and enlarge an airport restaurant.
Matthew T. Crosson, the chairman of the Long Island Association, the region's largest business group, said it was "a bit early to tell" whether Southwest would thrive at MacArthur. But if it did, he said, it would surely draw passengers from western Nassau eager to avoid city airport congestion.
"Everybody east of Route 110 is going to use MacArthur now," said Larry Austin, chairman and chief executive officer of Melville-based Austin Travel, a travel agency. "It's great for the airport and great for Long Island."
Some Long Island companies were ecstatic over the possible savings on travel budgets. "We are very excited about this; for us it's very important," said Lisa Mars, a senior vice president at Computer Associates in Islandia, where the annual travel budget is more than $20 million.
The computer software company has 2,400 employees at its Islandia world headquarters, a destination for clients and for others of the company's 12,000 employees worldwide.
At Symbol Technologies in Holtsville, which spends about $11 million on air fares annually, Austin Travel's in-house manager, Scarlett Green, was also enthusiastic.
"These fares are terrific and people love to go to MacArthur," she said. "It's so much closer to home for them."
MacArthur is located off of Veteran's Memorial Highway at exit 57 of the Long Island Expressway and is also near the Long Island Rail Road's Ronkonkoma station.
Ms. Green said the Southwest service would especially appeal to business travelers who went to LaGuardia to avoid using the small commuter planes that fly to some regional routes from MacArthur.
Dr. Koppelman said benefits were still broader. "It's not just the high-techs," he said. "It's the consulting firms and all those other businesses that have regional offices all over the country."
In its first foray into the New York region, Dallas-based Southwest will use the same formula that has worked in the 52 cities it serves.
It features deeply discounted fares, no frills and no-meals service, and quick airport turnarounds to keep a fleet of 276 Boeing 737s airborne.
For Long Island, it will mean eight daily direct flights to Baltimore-Washington International Airport for $79 each way with seven-day advance purchase, and similarly low fares on two daily flights to Chicago's Midway Airport and single flights to Nashville and Orlando. American Airlines, for example, last week quoted a round-trip, seven-day advance purchase fare to Chicago's O'Hare Airport of $300.
Southwest, which has 26,000 employees and more than 2,350 flights a day, will add 44 new jobs at MacArthur for baggage handlers, ticketing agents and other positions. The largely unionized company said current employees will be allowed to bid for the jobs and will have preference.
Mr. Kelleher, a New Jersey native who studied law at New York University, vowed that Southwest would succeed by developing a new customer base at MacArthur.
"When you are charging $39, 7-day advance purchase one-way fares to Baltimore, you tend to develop more travelers than when you are charging $250," he said. "It's funny how people respond to those things."
Competitors said they would probably respond to Southwest's fares. "We do compete with Southwest Airlines in various airports, and while we can't discuss future fares, we do intend to remain competitive," said a Delta Air Lines spokesman, John Kennedy.
At American Airlines, a spokesman, Tim Smith, said the company was "looking at some service enhancements out of MacArthur, but the details have not yet been finalized."
An airline analyst, Brian D. Harris of Salomon Smith Barney, said the Southwest move "fits their model."
"Instead of going right into the thick of things, they picked the most closely located airport, and now they are going to try to pick off traffic from the sidelines," he said.
Mr. Harris predicted that Southwest service would draw travelers who now used LaGuardia. "The obvious base are those folks living between the two airports," he said.
The MacArthur airport manager, Al Werner, said the airport had adequate capacity for the Southwest flights and any service expansions. He said there were no plans for adding or extending runways,
Mr. Werner said the 24 commercial jet flights the airport would handle daily when Southwest service began on March 14 was still below the 26 commercial daily flights it handled in the mid-1980's, the previous peak period for airport use.
At the time, complaints from airport neighbors in Bohemia, Holbrook and Ronkonkoma led to a voluntary agreement barring flights between 11 P.M. and 6:30 A.M.
But last week a Suffolk County Legislator who lives in Holbrook, Steve Levy, said complaints were mounting about "planes coming in from all angles, at all hours."
He said neighbors were alarmed that the town kept fire rescue crews on duty at the airport around the clock, reversing an earlier policy in which they departed at 11 P.M., thus precluding takeoffs or landings after that hour. "No jets after 11 P.M. was all that maintained people's sanity," said Mr. Levy, the senior Democrat in the legislature.
"We are not a bunch of Nimbyites seeking to close the airport, we are just trying to maintain the traditional late-night cut-off," Mr. Levy said. "If Southwest lives by the old standard, everyone can get along. If not, they are going to wake a sleeping giant."
The town disputes the charge, saying that rescue crews leave the airport at midnight.
A resident of Holbrook Estate, Ronald Falcone, said sound barriers similar to those erected along the Long Island Expressway were needed on the borders of the airport to buffer the sound of jet engines.
"Everyone is saying that having Southwest at the airport is a wonderful thing, but they are looking at it through rose-colored glasses," said Mr. Falcone.
"There has to be some consideration given to preserving the neighborhood and its quality of life," he said. "They are adding 12 flights, but Southwest says they don't see any reason why they shouldn't add more. When does it stop? When do we address the downside?"
Mr. Werner said the last arrival at MacArthur was at 10:35 P.M. Town officials said Southwest would abide by the curfew.
Airport officials and Southwest said 737-700s were quieter than older-generation jets. "It is a very quiet and fuel-efficient jet," said Kristie Kerr, a spokeswoman for Southwest.
Thomas Conoscenti, associate senior economist at the Center for Regional Policy Studies at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, said the move by Southwest could only help the Island and would likely strengthen the area's business links to other regions.
"It means greater exchange of goods and services, and of intellectual products that involve marketing and sales people," he said. "With the kind of route structure Southwest has, it opens up Long Island to other parts of the country and facilitates exchanges for the business community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Southwest Airlines has announced that it will begin service at MacArthur Airport on March 14. The airline will have 12 flights to four cities. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (84%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (58%); BOEING CO (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MACARTHUR AIRPORT (LONG ISLAND, NY); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (92%); AIR SERVICE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (65%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT D KELLEHER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



426 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Offstage Drama Of 'Wit' Goes On

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
THIS year, the singularity of the professional nonprofit theaters' best work in the state went on informing the nonprofit theater in New York, reflected the continuing double standards of the lords of the commercial sector and converged with other theater events, in Connecticut and elsewhere. Here's how some winners did it.
Although Long Wharf's Stage II in New Haven gave life to Margaret Edson's triumphant play, "Wit" in November 1997, when theaters countrywide turned it down, its offstage drama goes on. 
 Now that "Wit" happens to be the most acclaimed new play of the season in New York, it has become a cause celebre in all aspects of the New York theater: the institutional and the commercial, Off Broadway and Broadway. After "Wit" went as far as it could go in the M.C.C. Theater on West 28th Street -- the New York equivalent of a regional theater -- a move to Broadway was expected. For the 99-seat house had to make room for another play and "Wit" was still doing turn-away business after three extensions.
In step with the shortsighted second-guessing mentality of the commercial theater landlord in a seller's market, the owner of one available theater rejected "Wit," reasoning that there was no room for a play about a woman dying of ovarian cancer on the street where "Phantom of the Opera" and "Chicago" thrive, and "Fosse" and "Civil War" are moving in.
And so "Wit," not unwelcomely, moved to the Off Broadway-designated Union Square Theater last Friday. It seems a shoo-in for best play awards and its honored star, Kathleen Chalfant, for acting prizes -- but not the Tony, which retains Broadway exclusivity.
Given the inseparable politics and economics of the theater in New York, the schism between Broadway and Off Broadway, which is not geographic but a symptom of the theater's and television, in its selective coverage of theater, disguised class system, misguided snobbery and false elitism, is merely widened by the divided theater world's ambivalence toward a literate play of truth and gallantry.
If Long Wharf was brave and prophetic in lavishing Ms. Edson's play with a world-class premiere -- a memorable reopening for Stage II -- it is now positively heroic.
Of course, many theatergoers remain steadfast in refusing to attend a play on ostensibly downbeat themes. English grammar is one. To assure them that "Wit" is exhilarating is like talking of catharsis in ancient drama to those who line up for "Footloose."
Is it mere chance that contemporary theater's most life-affirming plays about death have emanated from Connecticut?
Remember that "Marvin's Room" moved from Hartford Stage to Off Broadway's Minetta Lane Theater. By contrast, the heavy-handed, high-minded "Shadow Box" transferred from Long Wharf to Broadway in the 1970's. But that was then.
If end-of-the-year awards were doled out for "best bio," Bernard Telsey Casting Inc., as described in Long Wharf's program, would be the winner, no contest. Mr. Telsey, the executive director, with Robert LuPone, of M.C.C., is also in charge of casting for Long Wharf, as well as for other theaters.
In the credits for the casting company, its five members thank a long list of clients and supporters in alphabetical order (E. Albee, E. Bogosian, D. Hughes, M. Lamos, D. Mamet, J. Tillinger, M. Wilson), theater organizations by initial only (H.S.C., L.W.T., M.C.C.) "for trusting us." And then one sentence: "Although we have our price, we have been known to cast for food."
A distinct Connecticut theater event of 1998 bore a serendipitous connection to another show in another state. In a remarkable confluence of life and art, June Havoc, a one-woman testament to survival, valor and vivacity, gave a solo reading of her new play in progress, "Baby June Remembers: A Love Story" at Lucille Lortel's White Barn Theater in Westport in September. Ms. Havoc's appearance had been delayed, but only briefly, after a fall, hip surgery and rehabilitation in a Stamford hospital. Her performance, of a play about the women in her celebrated life, up to age 9, including, of course, the notorious Mama Rose of "Gypsy," was followed by acharming question and answer session. Ms. Havoc was making peace with a fabled and widely misunderstood "monster mother."
Meanwhile, some 80 miles away, an extraordinary production of "Gypsy" was being produced at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J. Although Ms. Havoc has famously denounced the classic musical precisely because it is the fable it advertises itself to be, she admits it is a great piece of craftmanship, however falsely it presents the facts. No Mama Rose has been close to the real thing -- Tyne Daly came closest -- in her estimation. But Betty Buckley's killer performance in the summit role of musicals was the real thing, not the art that conceals truth but the art that reveals or, more importantly, transcends it. Somewhere between the artifice and showiness of the role's stellar interpreters -- Merman, Lansbury, Daly, Midler -- and Ms. Havoc's published and unpublished memories, there was Ms. Buckley, home free, in a style that must surely have startled, if not threatened, the role's creators.
Lucky theatergoers in Hartford were the beneficiaries of a convergence of another sort: the coincidental bravura performances of Estelle Parsons (in "Happy Days" at Hartford Stage) and Tovah Feldshuh (in "Full Gallop" at Theaterworks), both last month. Each player capped an adventurous life in the theater.
One hopes Hartford Stage audiences responded to Beckett's masterwork, though to some, it may have seemed too extreme a departure after the wildly popular, overproduced and overrated "Streetcar Named Desire."
And it must be emphasized that Ms. Feldshuh, after Mary Louise Wilson's indelible imprint on a role she herself wrote, succeeded smashingly where others (Elizabeth Ashley in an aborted tour that made a stopover in Stamford and Brenda Vacarro in Los Angeles) failed.
And while it is too early to measure the commercial success or failure of the overwrought, overamplified and otherwise beleaguered Broadway revival of "On the Town," it is important to chronicle the fine 1993 Goodspeed Opera House staging of the Bernstein-Comden-Green collaboration, their first, directed and choreographed by Marcia Milgrom Dodge. It is never surprising but ever renewing to know that Connecticut theatergoers get there first.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Wit," with Kathleen Chalfant, originated at the Long Wharf. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WIT (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LONG WHARF THEATER NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG WHARF THEATER NEW YORK (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); CANCER (50%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; EDSON, MARGARET JUNE HAVOC (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



427 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Substitute Teachers In Demand All Over The State

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
A SHORTAGE of substitute teachers across the state is forcing school administrators to find creative ways to fill hundreds of classroom positions each day -- using retired teachers, college students and even parents.
"This is a problem that is definitely reaching a crisis level and has been building for the past few years, but this is the worst I've ever seen it," said the Bridgeport School Superintendent, James A. Connelly, who heads the state's second largest school system. "There are days when we have 20 to 30 classes that we cannot fill with substitute teachers." 
 On many days, Mr. Connelly said, art and music teachers and even administrators are forced to teach regular classes. When those stopgap measures are not enough, students have to be sent to study halls. A strong state economy, rising student enrollments, increasing teacher absenteeism and a high number of teacher retirements are all contributing factors, say officials in the State Department of Education. In some places, teacher retirements are not just part of the problem, they are also part of the solution.
Eleanor Walker thought her classroom days were over when she retired in June after 21 years as an elementary school teacher in Trumbull. That has not turned out to be the case. In fact, she recently finished up a 10-week stint filling in for a third grade teacher on maternity leave at Middlebrook Elementary School.
"It's ironic that when I broke into teaching 25 years ago it was nearly impossible to get a regular job and you were lucky to even have steady work as a sub," said Mrs. Walker, who spent six years as a substitute before being hired in a full-time position.
"Of course I had no idea I would be back here so soon" or, she said, "that I would be filling in for so long. But I felt I had to do it for the children and for the school because I knew they were in a real bind."
School districts are, in fact, so desperate to find qualified substitute teachers they have devised all kinds of solutions. Among them are using administrators in the classroom, hiring and even paying tuition for graduate students who commit to long-term substitute assignments, hiring an increasing number of undergraduate student interns and retired teachers, and even hiring parents.
"We have a lot of parents who were already volunteering as aides in our schools, and as long as they meet the requirements to be in the classroom we decided to use them as substitutes," said the Bristol School Superintendent, Ann Clark. About a dozen parents are now on the school district's substitute teacher list, Ms. Clark said.
"We also find that students make excellent substitutes," she said, "because they are trying to line up work for after they graduate, and are energetic, creative and dedicated."
State education officials say the comparatively low pay for substitute teachers -- daily rates can range from $40 in interior parts of the state to $80 in affluent Fairfield County -- is another factor that has reduced the pool of available substitute teachers. Temporary services agencies are paying as much or more to lure workers, particularly women with young children who have to earn enough to justify working and offset high day-care rates, according to state officials.
A spokesman for the state's Education Department, Tom Murphy, said there were several factors "seemingly all coming together at the same time, and the result is that this is a problem that has reached the crisis stage in many districts, and is approaching that in many others."
"Student enrollments are going up," he said, "more teachers seem to be reaching retirement age than every before, and the labor pool is shrinking. That means we don't have enough substitute teachers most days to fill all of the classrooms in the state."
School officials throughout Connecticut say the problem is getting worse. "This year is without question the worst I've ever seen it," said the New Haven School Superintendent, Reginald Mayo, a 32-year veteran who presides over the state's largest school system with more than 20,000 students and 1,400 teachers.
Mr. Mayo said New Haven has taken the lead in taking advantage of the state's decision to grant waivers on a case-by-case basis of a requirement that substitutes have a college degree. The waiver is allowing college students in training to become teachers to fill in as substitutes, and about 25 students are working as regular substitutes in New Haven, Mr. Mayo said.
"We have contracts with Quinnipiac College and the University of New Haven to allow juniors and seniors in their education programs to work as regular substitutes in our schools," said Mr. Mayo, who has also appointed a committee of teachers, administrators and school board members to suggest other solutions.
"We've got to start finding fresh alternatives," Mr. Mayo said. "The problem is not going to go away any time soon."
Some school districts are banding together to address the problem. A six-town consortium -- which includes Wethersfield, Newington, Berlin, Glastonbury, Manchester and Rocky Hill -- has been formed for a pilot program to hire a pool of substitutes who will be guaranteed full-time work beginning in January.
"To me, giving people a commitment of full-time work is one of the best solutions I have heard of," said Patrice McCarthy, deputy director and general counsel for the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education, which represents 144 of the state's 166 school boards.
Some districts, such as Trumbull, are proposing that their substitute teachers be paid more beginning next school year, and are recommending that the staff cut back on the number of days taken for professional reasons so that fewer substitutes are needed.
"This is a problem that has been getting so much worse the past few years, but this is the first year we are actually having a lot of difficulty finding all the substitutes every day that we need," said Ralph Iassogna, the Trumbull associate superintendent. "It's a problem many school systems are facing, and here in Fairfield County it's a particular problem because during a strong economy a lot of the substitutes either have other jobs or don't need to work."
Mr. Iassogna pointed out that being a substitute in 1998 "is also a lot more complex and involved than it was years ago because of the increasing numbers of special students, and because of technology."
He said that part of the problem is that other nearby towns that draw on the same daily pool of about 80 substitutes pay more than the Trumbull rate. "To stay competitive we feel we need to raise the amount we pay and I think other districts are also finding that to be true," Mr. Iassogna said.
In Plainville, the School Superintendent, Max Riley, said there were 93 school days last year when administrators were forced to teach classes because there were not enough available substitutes.
"This is a growing crisis around the nation because so many people who became teachers during the 1960's are now retiring, and with the economy so strong most of the new teachers are getting full-time jobs right away," said Mr. Riley. "In the past, there were plenty of young teachers who were satisfied with just being a substitute for a few years," he said. "Now, they don't have to do that and as administrators we're going to have to make adjustments."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SHORTAGES; WAGES AND SALARIES TEACHING & TEACHERS (97%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (93%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); MUSIC (54%); 

PERSON: WEIZEL, RICHARD REGINALD MAYO (73%); ANN CLARK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



428 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2075 words

HEADLINE: New London's Feisty Newspaper, The Day

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN 

 BODY:
TWO and a half years ago, when the staff of The Day newspaper in New London showed up at Foxwoods Casino in Ledyard to do the daily drop off, they were promptly escorted off the reservation, newspapers and all.
Saying the paper had written untrue and damaging stories about the tribe being linked to organized crime, the Mashantucket Pequots, who run the nation's largest casino, yanked their advertising and ordered a freeze on any comments to reporters from The Day. 
 The tribe also took out a full page advertisement in The Norwich Bulletin, The Day's competitor, blasting The Day's coverage and proclaiming the tribe's "zero tolerance" stance on organized crime.
Reid MacCluggage, The Day's editor and publisher, shot back with an editorial defending his paper's reporting methods and reprimanding Foxwoods executives for not being more circumspect when hiring employees, particularly those documented in Federal and state records as having ties to organized crime. He wrote that the Mashantuckets deserved credit for dismissing most of the people in question, but added that if he were the tribe's chairman, "I'd want to know how they got on the payroll in the first place. Don't they run background checks?"
Mr. MacCluggage also issued a statement saying he regretted the ban, but that "any attempt to use economic pressure to influence coverage will be unsuccessful." The boycott meant the loss in sales of some 400 papers a day. "They killed us on circulation and advertising," Mr. MacCluggage said. Even so, The Day has rarely shied from controversy. Over the years, everyone from blue-chip corporations to hometown officials has lambasted the newspaper's coverage. As one of a fast-shrinking group of independent daily newspapers, The Day prides itself on its autonomy and willingness to uncover facts, regardless of how unpopular they may prove with major advertisers or subscribers.
This may seem like risky business, especially for a paper that, because of a larger-than-life publisher who took over in 1888, hands over its excess revenues to a nonprofit charity foundation and receives no corporate backing.
But it is that set-up, say Day staffers, that allows the paper to maintain close ties to its community and at same time focus on vigorous journalism instead of stockholders' demands.
Despite Foxwoods' shunning of The Day, the newspaper apparently had plenty of sources to draw from within the casino's ranks and continued to run articles on the casino. A year and a half went by. Then Foxwoods renewed its subscription and advertising and the two parties sat down to air their differences.
"The tribe now has a better understanding of our commitment to the First Amendment," Mr. MacCluggage said, "and we have a better understanding of their sovereignty."
The Foxwoods boycott was certainly not the first time a major power broker in the region shut out the newspaper. In the early 1980's, P. Takis Veliotis, the head of the Electric Boat Company in nearby Groton, ordered employees not to speak with Day reporters after the paper ran articles on cost overruns on a submarine construction project and the company's internal squabbles. (In 1983, Mr. Veliotis fled to his native Greece to avoid prosecution for an unrelated kickback scheme.)
In recent years, Northeast Utilities has taken out full-page advertisements in The Day castigating its coverage in articles beginning in the late 1980's about safety concerns at the company's four nuclear power reactors. Still, the stories and editorials poured forth. In 1996, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ordered the company to shut down the reactors and later imposed a $2.1 million fine against Northeast Utilities for violations that had occurred for years at the Millstone Plant in Waterford.
Maura J. Casey, whose acerbic musings about the company and the commission on the editorial pages of The Day prompted American Editor magazine to brand them "editorials with fangs," continues to monitor the situation closely. "I'm just doing my job," she said.
In recent years, The Day has twice received the Newspaper of the Year Award from the New England Newspaper Association and the coveted New England Press Association's Horace Greeley Award for "courage and outstanding effectiveness in serving the public."
Although the paper has provoked criticism from town officials and other residents in New London who say its often negative coverage reflects poorly on the city, readers also applaud the paper for tackling touchy issues and saying in editorials when a problem is being mishandled or ignored.
Lucas Held, who has been the director of community relations for Connecticut College as well as editor of The Middletown Press, called the friction between the town and the newspaper healthy and necessary.
"The Day has been pretty supportive of the community," he said, "but at the same time, it maintains a separate voice, which is the highest calling a newspaper can have."
Readers attribute the newspaper's often feisty coverage to Mr. MacCluggage, a former reporter and managing editor of The Hartford Courant. Sitting in his fourth-floor office with his back against a stunning panorama of the Thames River and downtown New London, he exudes commitment to a stubbornly skeptical outlook. An engaging storyteller, he is proud of The Day's independent status, but adds that the paper is no renegade.
"We're actually pretty conservative," he said, noting recent editorials calling for President Clinton to resign from office and The Day's endorsement of Republican candidates. "But we're not afraid to cover the issues."
Raised in Norwich by parents of Irish and Scottish descent, he graduated from the University of Hartford in 1961 and for the next 18 years covered the city and state desks for the Courant. He became managing editor in 1981, not long after Times Mirror Inc. acquired the Courant and appointed Michael J. Davies its editor and publisher.
Mr. MacCluggage called the acquisition good for the paper, but found that Mr. Davies's management style, "was not the kind I could work with." In 1984, he heard about the opening for an editor and publisher at The Day and applied.
The Day had been founded in 1881 by Maj. John A. Tibbets, a politician and Civil War veteran who used the paper as a platform for his Republican ideology. In 1888 the newspaper was sold to Theodore H. Bodenwein, a German immigrant who had dropped out of school at age 12.
Aggressive and inexhaustible, Mr. Bodenwein took charge at an auspicious time. Still recovering from the decline of the whaling industry, New London had found new life in the industrial economy. During the 1890's the city prospered from the new industries and as a summer colony for wealthy New Yorkers. The combination helped boost the readership of The Day as did people's interest in the Spanish-American War.
Mr. Bodenwein modernized and added political zest to the paper through World War I, the Great Depression and the hurricane of 1938. To protect the paper from falling into the hands of a publishing chain, he wrote a will that would have The Day operate under a public trust and the paper's net income be distributed to the Bodenwein Public Benevolent Foundation. To this day, the paper's net income is handed over to the foundation, whose sole trustee is Fleet Bank.
Sheilah Rostow, the director of planned giving for Fleet, said the foundation maintained an advisory board of local citizens that made recommendations to the bank before the money is distributed to community groups. In the past two years, she said, the foundation donated about $600,000 to charities and nonprofit organizations.
"It was very unique and farsighted for Bodenwein to set things up the way that he did," she said. "The foundation has been a major funder in southeastern Connecticut." After Mr. Bodenwein's death in 1939, The Day went through a string of editors and publishers, all of whom had close ties to the newspaper as reporters or managers. When Mr. MacCluggage was hired in 1984, staffers say he infused the paper with an energy it hadn't experienced for years.
To allow readers earlier access to the news, The Day began publishing in the morning instead of the afternoon. Mr. MacCluggage expanded the business, sports and editorial sections and added an arts and regional section.
In recent years, The Day has increased its coverage of national and international news. In the middle of the 1980's the newspaper's weekday circulation jumped to 42,000 from 36,000, with a Sunday circulation of 48,000. To keep pace, Mr. MacCluggage has increased his news staff to 80 from 55, well beyond the rule of thumb that calls for one editorial staff member for every 1,000 subscribers.
As a native of southeastern Connecticut, he said, moving back to the area 14 years ago, "was like coming home." He added, "What I like and dislike about the area is it's smallness. At The Courant I'd walk outside and no one knew who I was. Here people know my face and often come up to me to on the streets. It's more parochial here, but the cultural life is good and it's a great news area."
At the heart of The Day is a cadre of longtime staffers and New London natives who never left. Morgan McGinley, a veteran of 33 years and the president of the National Conference of Editorial Writers, is the editorial page editor and the grandson of John McGinley, The Day's first reporter. John McGinley's sons often played with the young Eugene O'Neill who frequented the McGinley home to escape his drug-addicted mother. O'Neill later wrote the play "Ah Wilderness!" based on the McGinley family.
Gregory N. Stone, a native of nearby Niantic, has worked at the paper 31 years as a reporter and an editorial writer. His book chronicling the history of the newspaper is to be published by The Day Publishing Company in 2000.
As with any other newspaper its size, Mr. Stone said, reporters often use The Day as a stepping stone to a larger metropolitan newspaper or magazine. Yet the paper maintains a long tradition of retaining journalists familiar with the history and people of the region. "Bodenwein always made a point of hiring local reporters right out of high school out of the conviction that they'd make better reporters," he said. "Having this collective memory keeps The Day firmly rooted as a community newspaper."
Even so, readers take the paper to task for printing too much gloomy news and not recognizing the region's positive points. Hard hit by cutbacks in the Pentagon's budget in the wake of the Cold War's demise -- which resulted in thousands of layoffs in the military and related industries -- southeastern Connecticut is on the rebound.
The Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun casinos, which employ about 17,000 people, are open. And, last spring, Pfizer Central Research in Groton announced that it would build a new research laboratory abutting the Thames River in New London, which will eventually employ 2,000 people. The package includes public financing to revitalize New London's downtown and harbor front.
Overall, said Reid Burdick, a city council member who has worked in local government for 30 years, the mood in the city is buoyant -- yet you would never know it by reading The Day. "The Day has become complacent and out of touch with the citizens of New London," he argued, adding, "Here the city is going through this great renaissance and we can't get our hometown paper on board. The paper should be championing the city, yet it's not."
Mr. MacCluggage has heard the complaints before. In a 1996 article under the headline "Newspaper Accused of Negative Coverage of City Issues," several city officials echoed Mr. Burdick's sentiments. Mr. MacCluggage pointed out then and more recently that the paper has been supportive of the city in any number of editorials and articles. But, he added, it is also the newspaper's role to scrutinize newsworthy developments, regardless of public advocacy.
In 1920, when Theodore Bodenwein was at the helm of The Day, 1,650 dailies in the country were independently owned. Today that number has shrunk to 300. Of the 20 dailies in Connecticut, just 6 remain independent. But staff members at The Day say they can not imagine a corporate takeover of their newspaper.
"The board of directors would never let that happen," Mr. MacCluggage said.
"If that ever happened it would cause a tremendous outcry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Day's editorial board, from the left: Morgan McGinley, editorial page editor; Gregory N. Stone; Maura J. Casey, and Reid MacCluggage, editor and publisher. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DAY, THE (NEW HAVEN, CONN, NEWSPAPER) NORWICH BULLETIN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAY, THE (NEW HAVEN, CONN, NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES NEWS REPORTING (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CASINOS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CHARITIES (60%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI REID MACCLUGGAGE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



429 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: New Chronicler of the Rich and Famous

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA ROWE 

 BODY:
THERE is a certain type of person who routinely sends urgent E-mails at 2 A.M. and insists she cannot think unless she is wearing black. In this particular case, she is a magazine publisher.
The vocabulary of high-end trend-setters may not have been Mary Ann Liebert's prime concern when she brought out The Westchester Wag last October. But her magazine has already attracted attention as much for its name (which refers to gossip, not dogs) as for the celebrity interviews, social events and ratings of take-out places that fill its pages. 
 "People are starting to give me 'the wag' about something," Ms. Liebert said with a laugh. "They say, 'Oh, Mary Ann, let me tell you the wag about this'."
No matter. Getting a new life-style magazine noticed is no small feat and almost any method is fair game.
In an economy where increasingly only the behemoth survive, Ms. Liebert, who owns a 70-employee medical publishing firm in Larchmont, is something of an anomaly.
She dreamed up the concept for a glossy Westchester magazine, paid for the project and specially selected the 350 coffeehouses, beauty parlors, health clubs, doctors' offices, banks and other drop-off points where her free monthly is available. It also comes by subscription, upon request, also free of charge.
Starting a magazine, even one like The Wag with a staff of 10, typically means hemorrhaging thousands, if not millions of dollars, and folding within the first year -- so skeptics might well wonder at Ms. Liebert's sanity. But she and the editor in chief, Diane Straus Tucker, appear unfazed. With almost 31 years of Westchester residency between them (Ms. Liebert moved up from Manhattan in 1983 and Ms. Tucker in 1982), they are confident that what the county needs is a publication devoted to its movers and shakers." To put it bluntly: a magazine that covers the rich.
"I heard about one reader who was negotiating on a car, and the dealer said: 'Oh, you can afford it. I saw your picture in The Wag,' " Ms. Liebert said proudly.
No existing publication reflected what both women called the sophistication of the county's highly educated, affluent residents, those people who might enjoy reading about the home life of the television news interviewer Catherine Crier, gleaning paddle tennis tips from President Kennedy's former adviser, Theordore C. Sorensen, or looking at pictures of their friends at parties and benefits. That type of feature filled the first two issues along with real estate advertisements for houses costing more than $1 million, and social pages filled with black-tie events.
The Wag has a distinctly clubby feel. Celebrities filled the first three issues, most of them people whom Ms. Tucker knew through her career at New York magazine as an assistant editor. The Village Voice as arts editor and and as the publisher of Trader Publications for 13 years.
Future features will include contributions from Seema Boesky (the former wife of Ivan) and Lucie Arnaz (the daughter of Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz). And despite The Wag's fiercely local bent, Ms. Tucker has written a personal column about Monica S. Lewinsky, her stepsister, for the December issue.
"People want to know about people," Ms. Liebert said. "They want to know how they live, how they play, how they dress. What they do. People are intrigued by celebrity. They're intrigued by success, and they want to be part of that."
Regarding Westchester itself, however, the publisher was not always so smitten.
"I moved up from Manhattan under protest," she said. "My husband's pediatric practice was here, but I went kicking and screaming. I didn't give up my apartment in Manhattan for years because I was sure I'd have very few friends; I'd be intellectually unhappy, and I'd do all of my shopping in city."
To her surprise, Ms. Liebert said she found a community of active cosmopolites. They were involved in politics. They enjoyed the arts. And most of all, she said, "They were people who loved to shop."
In short, they were just her type. Yet she said she rarely read anything about her interesting neighbors, nothing that connected her to a county full of people with similar life styles and interests. Thus was born the idea that became The Wag.
Certainly, some residents will feel left out of the magazine's orbit. A woman in Ossining wrote to lambaste The Wag for its "fairly unrealistic viewpoint of Westchester women and their shopping habits." She continued: "Obviously, you prefer to photograph those who can own their formal wear, rather than rent."
Ms. Liebert is unapologetic. "The Wag will never be all things to all people," she said. "It is definitely upscale."
Though she declined to say how much had been spent on the first three issues, the publisher conceded that with its large format and full color, celebrity-anchored covers, costs had been considerable.
"No effort is being spared to make The Wag a success," she said. "And I can see that people are reading it. People love it."
Random phone calls to Westchester residents in various towns found that while many residents had not yet seen the magazine, those who have have applauded it.
"I like the magazine very much," said Edward Timper, co-owner of the low-key but chic Scarsdale Avenue Cafe. "It's kind of upscale and it's very well put together. My partner and I were just looking at the party pages together a couple of weeks ago. We do like it, very much."
That is sweet vindication for Ms. Liebert, whose dreams were curbed for years by her family and accountant's insistence that she stay focused on her less colorful, though successful, medical publishing projects. Ms. Liebert was not dissuaded.
"The Wag was sort of evolving in my mind," she said. "I could actually see it in my head, see its size and how it should look, all the elements. And I am somebody who's a mountain climber by nature. If I see a mountain, I've got to go up. Anyway, I knew that if we did it right and found the right tone, it would work."
Still, Ms. Liebert cannot keep herself from snapping photographs of readers she sees on the street or occasionally approaching others for reaction.
"I'm very hands on," she said. "Very."
So much so that she hurried off the phone after a recent interview to shop and distribute magazines herself. "I'm running out now with a bunch of Wags under my arm," she said, "because you just never know who you're going to meet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Ann Liebert, publisher, and Diane Straus Tucker, vice president and editor in chief, in Larchmont headquarters of the newly published Westchester Wag. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)(pg. 1); At a staff meeting, from left, Larry Bernstein, Pat Hogan, Mary Ann Liebert and Christopher Dauer. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER WAG (MAGAZINE) NEW YORK MAGAZINE (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER WAG (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); PUBLISHING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (51%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (51%); 

PERSON: ROWE, CLAUDIA; LIEBERT, MARY ANN; TUCKER, DIANE STRAUS JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



430 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA;
The Dark Side

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 There is an odd yet appropriate conjunction between Michael Kimmelman's article on Steve Wynn's Las Vegas, "In an Unreal City, Real Masterworks Beat the Odds" Dec. 6 , and Edward Rothstein's article "A Shifting American Landscape: Downtown, Theme Parks for the Arts" Dec. 6 . Both essays, though in very different ways, examine what is fast becoming the most significant and potentially most troubling aspect of the arts in America, and that is the realization that they are not only good for business but a vital component of the life of our cities. 
 On the surface, of course, this recognition is nothing short of a triumph, especially in the face of the polarized and decadelong battle over the National Endowment of the Arts.
There is, however, a darker side to this. What happens to the arts when they are understood not as an end unto themselves but as either a marketing ploy, as in the case of Mr. Wynn's Bellagio, or as urban renewal, as in the case of Tulsa, Louisville, Houston and the other cities referred to by Mr. Rothstein?
While it is easy to admire the enriching effect of arts centers on our cultural life, it is less clear what the long-term impact of these will be, as the necessities of filling the house in order to justify ambitious economic expectations result in putting spectacles over programming, commercially successful events over intellectually significant ones.
Similarly, it is impossible not to be impressed by the collection of masterworks that Mr. Wynn has assembled in just a few short years. Yet one has to be concerned about what happens to these objects, and the aura of the artists who made them, when they are reduced to advertising Mr. Wynn's casino. Modigliani's portrait may never have looked better than it did over Bellagio's baccarat table, but that does not mean that it was intended for this use or that the hotel's marquee proclaiming, "Coming Soon -- Van Gogh, Monet, Renoir and Cezanne, With Special Guests Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse," does not trivialize the artists who made these objects.
Mr. Kimmelman may well be right that the only difference between Mr. Wynn and other collectors, in terms of how they treat their collections, is that Mr. Wynn is more public about his activities. But most collectors, I would argue, are not in the business of simultaneously selling their enterprises by promoting their art and selling their art by promoting their enterprises, to paraphrase Mr. Kimmelman. At the risk of sounding like an elitist curmudgeon, which my children assure me comes naturally, I wonder if there is not something deeply disturbing about our cultural life when our arts centers become theme parks, and collectors are admired for their ability to commercialize and parody the objects they acquire.
 
GLENN D. LOWRY
New York
 
The writer is the director of The Museum of Modern Art.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BELLAGIO HOTEL (LAS VEGAS)

ORGANIZATION: BELLAGIO HOTEL (LAS VEGAS)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; ART LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); GAMING (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); WRITERS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL; ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; WYNN, STEVE STEVE WYNN (92%); MICHAEL KIMMELMAN (77%); EDWARD ROTHSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



431 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
The Privatization of Public Housing in Stamford

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: STAMFORD

 BODY:
LAST year a private developer bought one of the Stamford Housing Authority's most distressed properties; next year another one will be sold to a different developer. The first is now being rehabilitated and the second will be replaced.
Ninety-four buildings with 430 two-story apartments at Rippowam Park are undergoing redevelopment and 500 units at Southfield Village will be demolished and replaced by 330 apartments and town houses. 
 The program under which Rippowam Park is being redeveloped represents a departure in the financing of public housing. It was approved by the State Legislature last year as a two-year pilot program introduced by Representative Christel H. Truglia, a Stamford Democrat. Up to three municipalities may participate. So far Stamford is the only one to do so.
The $36-million cost of the project was raised through $16 million in tax-exempt bonds issued by the Housing Authority, a $6.6 million low-interest loan that the developer will repay to the city and the rest from private investment in low-income housing tax credits.
Under the pilot program, developers and housing authorities may apply as partners to the state's Department of Economic and Community Development for approval of plans to renovate deteriorated public housing. Once approval is granted the developer takes over ownership of the buildings and proceeds without further oversight by the state or the housing authority on construction, maintenance, management and rentals.
The housing authority retains ownership of the land through a 99-year ground lease, which restricts its use to low- and moderate-income housing for the entire term. After that the buildings revert to the Housing Authority.
The terms of the tax-exempt bonds also insure that the low- and moderate-income status of the project continues for 99 years in the event that the developer, in this case Rippowam Park Associates L.P., a division of the Richman Group of Greenwich, exercises its option to buy the entire property within three years, provided that the renovations are complete.
Mayor Dannel Malloy calls the rehabilitation of the complex, now a third of the way completed with 150 refurbished two- to four-bedroom apartments rented to former tenants or newcomers, "trail-blazing."
"This is the trend," he said. "The state won't put the money in that's required to rebuild public housing, which has been allowed to decline over a long period. Rippowam Park has been very successful. The crime statistics have dropped through the basement. Resident satisfaction is high, and people who never would have considered living there are renting apartments."
He said he preferred the state program to Hope VI, a 1993 Federal Housing and Urban Development program that is helping to finance the demolition and reconstruction of Southfield Village. "It's a big country," said the Mayor, "and there's a limit to the number of Hope VI grants." Only 20 a year are awarded nationwide in a highly competitive application process.
BY next August the transformation of Rippowam Park -- a state-subsidized moderate-income housing project formerly known as Ward Homes that was owned and operated by the Housing Authority for 45 years -- is expected to be completed. To date, 20 of the former Ward Homes tenants have been evicted for nonpayment of rent and disqualified from renting one of the new units.
The plans for Southfield Village, which is a federally financed low-income complex, will take at least five years to complete. The result will be a mixed-income, garden-apartment and town house neighborhood with backyards and parking areas, a community pool and a fitness center.
Beacon-Corcoran Jennison Partners, a joint venture of the Beacon Companies and Corcoran Jennison of Boston, will develop half of the 330 new units as federally subsidized rentals for low-income tenants. The other half will be rented to moderate-income tenants, except for 15 town houses, which will be sold.
The 24-acre project received a $26.4 million grant from the Hope VI program, which, like the state plan at Rippowam Park, allows housing authorities to redevelop deteriorated properties by forming partnerships with private developers. The housing authorities turn over ownership, rehabilitation and management of the properties to the developer, but retain the land on a 99-year lease. Other Hope VI projects are under way in Hartford and New Haven.
According to Edward Schwartz, executive director of the Stamford Housing Authority, H.U.D.'s grant will provide leverage for the $80 million that the project will cost. The city provided $3 million as leverage for the Federal grant and, according to Peter Wood, area redevelopment director for Beacon-Corcoran Jennison Partners, "we are applying for low-income housing tax credits and seeking some gap funding from the state."
"Since there is no purchase option for Hope VI projects," added Mr. Schwartz, "we are obligated to supply rent subsidies for the low-income units during the entire 99-year term of the ground lease."
His office oversees 18 public-housing properties in the city, some federally subsidized, others, like Rippowam Park, whose tenants' income may not exceed 60 percent of the area median of $89,300 for a family of four. "People pay 30 percent of their income or the minimum rent, whichever is higher," said Mr. Schwartz. "There are no rent subsidies."
Typically, a single individual earning a minimum of $17,550 pays $508 a month for a two-bedroom apartment, or $585 with a maximum income of $21,875. A family of four at Rippowam Park may earn between $46,620 and $53,580 and pay the minimum $1,415 or the maximum $1,554 a month for a four-bedroom apartment. A two-bedroom market rate apartment in Stamford rents for $1,800 to $2,200 a month.
"We saw nothing in Stamford that was as nice as this that wasn't a lot more expensive," said Beth Hale, who moved to Rippowam Park with her husband, Adam, last October.
Monica Pratcher, a five-year resident with two children, was moved to a vacant apartment while hers was renovated. "It took about three months," she said. "The difference is humongous."
EACH refurbished apartment has a small deck and backyard, fully equipped eat-in kitchen, one or one-and-a-half baths and central air-conditioning. New roofs and siding, rebuilt interiors, plumbing and electrical systems, walkways and landscaping, are standard renovations, and the Richman Group has hired uniformed off-duty policemen to patrol nightly. An independently owned day care center will operate rent-free on the site.
The complex covers 46 acres in a pleasant residential neighborhood known as Westover, across the street from the E. Gaynor Brennan municipal golf course. The terrain, which varies from rolling and wooded to level and grassy, is dotted with playgrounds and small parking lots for residents. Soon a community center will be completed with a gym, kitchen, and meeting rooms. Next door to the complex is the public Westover Magnet School, where Rippowam Park children have priority in the citywide lotteries for admission.
For the last 20 years developers across the country have competed for work turning around distressed public housing, according to Pamela Goodman, senior vice president of the Beacon Companies. "It's nowhere near as lucrative as building $500,000 condos," she said, "and there are days when I wonder whether the risk-reward relationship is in balance. Hope VI just makes it more complicated."
But profits are to be made in public housing that is not for the poorest of the poor. "We collect management fees," said John McClutchy, a partner in Rippowam Park Associates, "and the cumulative amount longterm, paid in rents that escalate by 3 or 4 percent a year, can be substantial." There is a cap, however, on profits of 10 to 15 percent for any state or federally financed housing, he said.
Peter Wood, Beacon-Corcoran Jennison's area director, calls public housing "a niche in our case."
"People on our staff have worked at H.U.D., bringing a great deal of expertise to affordable housing redevelopment," he said.
Ten years ago Corcoran Jennison turned an almost vacant 1,400-unit public-housing project in Boston into an award-winning mixed income complex called Harbor Point. Currently, it is working on Hope VI projects in New Haven, Boston, Pittsburgh and Detroit.
"They are only part of our overall portfolio, and we don't anticipate future cash flow on these jobs," Mr. Wood said. "But they contribute positively to our reputation, and we expect to break even, at least. It's a threshold question as to whether or not we will continue to do Hope VI projects."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rippowam Park, where 94 buildings with 430 two-story apartments are undergoing redevelopment. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: RIPPOWAM PARK ASSOCIATES L P (76%); BEACON-CORCORAN JENNISON PARTNERS (63%); STAMFORD HOUSING AUTHORITY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAMFORD HOUSING AUTHORITY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PRIVATIZATION; FINANCES HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); BOND ISSUES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); STATISTICS (60%); CRIME STATISTICS (50%); 

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



432 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Lenders Softening The Rules

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
TRADITIONALLY, the relationship between borrowers and lenders has been defined by two assumptions, both seemingly self-contradictory: One was that to obtain credit, a person had to establish a good credit history. The second was that lenders generally preferred to make loans to those who don't need them.
In recent years, however, the traditional rules for lending have softened significantly -- particularly with respect to mortgages and home equity loans. Now, credit experts say, borrowers who are already in debt are often welcome to borrow more. And those whose track records have been less than perfect -- even abysmal -- are often given another chance to prove themselves good bets as borrowers. "Basically, you can get a mortgage today even if you've been through bankruptcy," said Gerri Detweiler, education adviser for Debt Counselors of America, a consumer advocacy organization based in Rockville, Md. 
 Ms. Detweiler said that while there had always been lenders willing to lend money to those with less than perfect credit, such loans were typically short-term and at relatively high interest. Now, however, it is possible for those who have had credit problems to get long-term mortgages or home equity loans from lenders who in the past would have rejected such borrowers.
And while those with blemishes on their credit histories are still likely to pay higher interest rates, she said, those rates can usually be renegotiated if the borrower re-establishes a good payment record. "The bottom line is that there are lots of opportunities out there for borrowers," Ms. Detweiler said. "Even borrowers with bad credit."
In fact, the less-than-perfect credit market is increasing so significantly that Intuit, the Mountain View, Calif., company that markets Quicken software and sponsors an Internet site for those seeking home mortgages (www.quickenmortgage.com), recently added lenders who specialize in so-called "subprime" loans to its Web site.
"These borrowers represent from 15 to 20 percent of the market," said Alison Berkley, group product manager for the company. Ms. Berkley said borrowers who visit the Quicken Mortgage site and whose credit history is "less than perfect" would be referred to one of four new lenders affiliated with the site. "We have a product called the 'Back on Track Loan,' " said Shelly Porges, executive vice president of new business initiatives for The Money Store, a home equity lender based in Sacramento, Calif., that is now a participating lender on the Quicken mortgage Web site.
She explained that with the new program, homeowners who have had problems paying off high-interest credit-card debt could get a home-equity loan to consolidate that debt. And while the interest rate on the loan is generally higher than the rate for those with good credit histories -- from one to several percentage points more, depending on the severity of past credit problems -- it is typically lower than rates charged on credit cards. Also, Ms. Porges said, the interest rate on the loan will be steadily decreased after each year of on-time payments.
She added that while most conventional lenders relied upon mathematical formulas and credit scoring to determine a borrower's eligibility, her company, which specializes in the "subprime" market, also takes into consideration a borrower's personal explanation for past credit problems. "We often call our loans 'story loans' because we listen to the borrower's story and try to understand the circumstances," she said. "And that allows us to be more flexible."
But even conventional lenders seem to be increasingly willing to offer "subprime" borrowers an understanding ear.
"The human element is unquestionably a factor in underwriting today," said Oded Ben-Ami, senior loan officer for Sterling National Mortgage, based in Great Neck, N.Y. Mr. Ben-Ami said that while most lenders use traditional underwriting factors like income, credit history and loan-to-value ratios to determine whether a particular loan is acceptable, they have become more flexible when weighing those factors.
For example, he said, credit-reporting bureaus usually provide lenders a credit score for a prospective borrower. That score, Mr. Ben-Ami said, is typically based upon a variety of factors, including the frequency and severity of late payments, the total amount of debt outstanding, the number of credit lines open and the proportion of debt that is outstanding to credit available in the form of unused credit limits on credit cards.
"Every factor has its own weight," he said, pointing out that the last-mentioned factor -- the proportion of debt outstanding to credit available -- is deemed quite important. "People who are maxed out on their credit cards are statistically regarded as default, foreclosure or bankruptcy risks," Mr. Ben-Ami said.
At the same time, however, even those who have significant amounts of outstanding debt could be considered reasonable credit risks if their payment history is good and their income is high enough to allow them to continue making payments on outstanding debt even with the additional expense of the new loan.
And while late payments generally have a negative effect on a borrower's credit rating, Mr. Ben-Ami said, not all late payments are accorded the same weight.
"When you're applying for a mortgage, a late mortgage payment is the worst late payment of all," he said, explaining that generally speaking, car loans and boat loans are next on the late-payment-impact hierarchy followed by bank credit cards, revolving charge accounts, student loans and gas credit cards.
Moreover, Mr. Ben-Ami said, the weight accorded to late payments can be minimized if a reasonable explanation is provided. While every negative item on a credit report will have a detrimental impact, he said, explanations are always entertained.
"What the underwriter wants is an exculpatory explanation," Mr. Ben-Ami said. "They want to hear that the problem wasn't the borrower's fault or that it was the result of extenuating circumstances -- like sickness or a temporary job loss -- that are no longer a factor."
He emphasized that any items listed on a credit report as being in collection or in "charge-off" status -- meaning that the lender has either sent the matter to a collection agency or has given up trying to collect the debt -- must be satisfied and removed from the credit report before another lender will make a new loan.
At the same time, however, neither bankruptcy nor even a prior foreclosure are absolute bars to borrowing.
"Standard underwriting guidelines allow for mortgages to be approved when there's been a bankruptcy that has been discharged for at least three years," he said. Foreclosures, he said, generally require four to five years' passage, and then only with a very good explanation. "Foreclosure is a mortgage lender's nightmare," he said. "There is no explanation that will be accepted without some suspicion."
Still, Mr. Ben-Ami said, the mortgage-lending market is so competitive -- particularly in the area of "subprime" lending -- that given sufficient income and equity in the property being mortgaged, along with a willingness to pay anywhere from 2 to 8 percentage points more in interest -- even borrowers with horrible credit histories can find a lender willing to make a loan. "There can be a reasonable explanation for almost anything," Mr. Ben-Ami said. "And time heals all wounds."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (53%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (56%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (53%); MONEY STORE INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (56%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BANKS AND BANKING REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); WEB SITES (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



433 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3014 words

HEADLINE: In Downtown Newark, Hopeful Signs

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
AS day faded into night on a recent Sunday, people began streaming into the 13-month-old New Jersey Performing Arts Center in downtown Newark for the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra's 4 P.M. Christmas show. Instead of passing by New Jersey's largest city, long a symbol of urban decay, more than 2,000 patrons -- young and old, black and white, well-to-do and working class -- were pouring into its heart.
The scene captured a potential for change that even the most ardent supporters of Newark's current revival are quick to admit seemed almost unimaginable three years ago in this city, which was brought to its knees by race riots some 31 years ago. 
 Evidence that the struggle for recovery is far from over can be found by weekend concertgoers in the lonely streets and sparsity of customers in shops a few blocks from the $180-million arts center, streets and shops that are livelier during the working week. And poverty still clings to many of the city's crumbling neighborhoods. But there have been other signs of progress in the core of this 24-square mile city in addition to the arts center, which in its first year of operation drew more than half a million visitors.
One of the clearest has been the purchase over the last 18 months of eight office buildings -- at least two of which were sold twice. Four more are on the market, with deals reported to be close. And the longtime owners of a fifth property -- a 467,000-square-foot office building that one of the owners said they could not rent or even give away earlier this decade -- are sprucing it up and marketing it to tenants.
For the investors who are buying buildings in downtown Newark, "the bet is to buy older, mostly vacant buildings, upgrade them to compete for corporate tenants and, in turn, be able to achieve a higher rental stream," said Arthur Della Salla, regional director of research at Grubb & Ellis, the national commercial brokerage. His firm puts the sales price for such buildings in Newark at $9 to $27 a square foot.
Mr. Della Salla said the recent sale of one of the city's most modern buildings -- the only Class A building to have changed hands recently -- told a similar story: An investor sold the building for double what he paid for it after securing a long-term lease from a financially secure tenant. In that case, he said, the first investor purchased the 720,000-square-foot Gateway II building, part of a complex of four office towers adjacent to Penn Station, for $34 million, or $40 a square foot, and sold it 19 months later for $78 million, or $94 a square foot.
The Prudential Insurance Company of America, whose corporate headquarters has been in the city since 1875, has moved some 3,800 workers back to Newark after having dispatched them to the suburbs years earlier, raising its city workforce to 7,000. Prudential now occupies about 2.2 million square feet of office space in Newark. Bell Atlantic has also has made a commitment to move back employees, starting with 85 workers in the last six months and with the potential for some 600 more at its partially occupied 428,000-square-foot New Jersey headquarters at 540 Broad Street. It now has 1,000 workers in Newark.
Regaining those jobs will help compensate for the loss of 500 expected at Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, based at 520 Broad Street. The insurer -- which was seized by state regulators after it collapsed in 1991 and has operated under a rehabilitation plan since then -- has announced that it will sell its insurance assets at year's end and close its doors this summer, an indication that despite the good news, Newark still faces an uphill battle.
"It is an evolutionary process," said Alfred L. Faiella, the city's Deputy Mayor for Housing and Economic Development. "The idea is to put so much into the hopper that more will eventually come."
Mayor Sharpe James added that Newark was "following the format of other cities by starting to build an arts core and give people a reason to come back."
That is why people like Lawrence P. Goldman, president and chief executive officer of the arts center, consider the current wave of investment in downtown office buildings so important. "The depopulation and disinvestment in some of the buildings around the arts center was worrisome from the standpoint of the health of an urban center," said Mr. Goldman. "What is happening now is astounding, and if you asked me the week before the arts center opened how long it would take for the impact on real estate to be felt I would have said three to five years."
Estimates from Grubb & Ellis, the national commercial brokerage, are that about $400 million will have been invested in downtown Newark over the next few years, counting from mid-1997. That figure includes what the new owners paid for the office buildings and what they and existing landlords say they have spent or will spend to renovate the structures.
The new investors are looking at forces at play outside of Newark, as well as within the city.
"The fundamentals of the New Jersey economy are as good as they have been in 30 years and the office market is as healthy in the state as in Manhattan," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "So areas left behind like Newark are benefiting from that and seeing more activity."
AFTER renovating the buildings, investors are betting they can make money by leasing space at higher rents. The appeal to tenants is that the rents will still be lower than those in Manhattan and along the Hudson River waterfront in Jersey City, which has been the first stop for companies willing to cross the river to New Jersey.
Grubb & Ellis put the average annual asking rent for prime space in Newark -- defined as newer buildings close to Penn Station -- at $25 per square foot, compared to $22 a year ago. In contrast, such space goes for an average of about $30 along the riverfront in Jersey City and $35 in downtown Manhattan, according to the brokerage firm's figures. Asking rents for space in second-tier buildings in Newark range from $15 to $21 a square foot annually.
"Tenants looking for space at lower rents can find it in Newark, which has a labor supply and accessibility by train to Manhattan," said Donald P. Eisen, executive managing director for the New York area at Cushman & Wakefield. Newark has shown "signs of life" recently and could take off as an office market, but over time, he said, "It needs a commitment from an outside company, and people fueling 24-hour activity."
So far, most of the new buyers are from out of state, including some from Manhattan, such as the Cogswell Realty Group. With Lehman Brothers and other New York investors, Cogswell bought two buildings, totaling about a million square feet, most of it empty.
The investors plan to modernize the 641,000-square-foot office building at 744 Broad Street, which they purchased late last year for $7.5 million from Newark Building Associates. That company's general partner is Peter L. Malkin of Manhattan, whose extensive holdings include investments in the Empire State Building.
The 440,000-square-foot 1180 Raymond Boulevard, which the Cogswell-Lehman partners bought for just under $3 million, is to be converted from offices to a 915-bed student dormitory. Arthur R. Stern, a partner at Cogswell, said he was discussing customizing sections of the building to meet their needs with officials of the city's five institutions of higher learning -- the city's Rutgers campus, Seton Hall Law School, the New Jersey Institute of Technology, the New Jersey University of Medicine and Dentistry and Essex County College.
"It is easy to take potshots at Newark, which everyone was writing off as a dead city in 1990 and 1991," said Mr. Stern. "But the perception is changing."
Steven C. Witkoff, president of the Witkoff Group, a real estate investment concern based in Manhattan, purchased Gateway II, an occupied Class A building, last May from the Townsend Company of Towson, Md. Mr. Witkoff is under contract to buy the other three buildings totaling 1.26 million square feet at the Gateway complex. Though Mr. Witkoff declined to say how much he will pay for the buildings, he said it was less than the reported $175 million asking price. Prudential is selling the buildings as part of a plan announced a few years ago to sell the properties it owns and invest the proceeds in more liquid real estate, such as shares in REIT's.
"We've bought the best buildings in Newark and if the tide goes up we go up with it," Mr. Witkoff said.
Among the other buyers of downtown Newark buildings in recent months were Read Properties of Manhattan, which bought the 485,000-square-foot 24 Commerce Street for $2.3 million, and Townsend, which purchased for $12 million the half-vacant, 380,000-square-foot former headquarters of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of New Jersey at 33 Washington Street. And at the end of the year the Kushner Companies of Florham Park, N.J., is expected to close on the purchase of the 440,000-square-foot headquarters of Mutual Benefit Life.
"It says something that at a time when the capital market has shifted from institutions to private banks, which have upped the ante, there are still investors who believe in Newark," said Dudley Ryan, senior vice president at the Teaneck office of the CB/ Richard Ellis real estate brokerage.
Other investments are also being made in downtown Newark. Rutgers is building a new law school and construction has begun on a 6,700-seat minor league baseball stadium. Some $10 million in public funds are in place to begin work this summer on the initial phase of what eventually will be a 1.75-mile esplanade along the Passaic River as well as on the first phase of a $175-million light rail line linking the downtown to Newark International Airport.
The activity has helped encourage new investors, whose arrival is significant in a long-overlooked city where schools are substandard and unemployment, though lower than a few years ago, is still high -- 11 percent in 1997 (the latest figure available), compared with 16.6 percent in 1991, according to state data.
Other encouraging factors include the growing influence of public-private partnerships willing to promote development and the city's newly established downtown Special Improvement District, which includes the performing arts center. The district allows property owners to tax themselves and spend the money on services such as extra security forces and more frequent garbage pickups.
And there is a sense that local residents are beginning to believe that change is possible. Until recently, said Raphael Gesumaria, a retired medical secretary who has lived all her life in Newark and raised her two daughters in the same North Ward house she grew up in, "I stayed away from downtown because there was no place for me to shop and I didn't feel safe. Now, I go to Broad Street to shop and twice a week I volunteer at the arts center."
She said the arts center had brought positive attention to the city. "I saw Newark when it thrived and when it died," she said. "I have hope."
BUT what is most important for investors is that Newark offers substantial old office buildings at prices that are cheap compared with much of the metropolitan area. It is also a city that offers tax incentives and other sweeteners to developers who help in its revival program.
The question now is if enough tenants will follow to fill the newly renovated space. Newark can still be a tough sell because "tenants are still skeptical," said Richard Mirliss, a broker at the West Orange office of Grubb & Ellis. "The arts center has been a big positive," he said, but "there has been a lot of talk about redevelopment for a long time." Now there is even more talking, including a proposal for a basketball arena and soccer stadium for the New Jersey Nets and New Jersey Metro Stars, respectively.
Another proposal calls for portions of eight blocks along Broad Street, one block in to Halsey Street, between Cedar Street and Central Avenue to be transformed into a Greenwich Village-like streetscape with housing and office space over shops. The redevelopment would link the business district to the arts center to the north and the University Heights neighborhood to the west. Such linkages, analysts, developers and city officials say, are needed for the downtown revival to spill into the rest of Newark.
The nonprofit group pushing the linkage plan, the New Newark Foundation, is led by Raymond G. Chambers, a philanthropist and Newark native who is considered a prime mover behind the city's revival. (He, along with other investors, also owns 19 percent of the Nets and has made it clear he wants to bring the team to Newark.)
The foundation has control of about eight acres between Broad and Halsey Streets and hopes to start implementing the plan to redevelop that property into a mix of uses within a year, said Mort Goldfein, the group's chief executive.
The former Hahne's department store, part of the assemblage, sits across Broad Street from the arts center and is a focal point of the plan. City officials said discussions were under way with Continental Airlines to rent two of the building's upper floors for use by flight attendants, bringing people to the downtown.
"We need to continue to create a draw for the downtown, that brings people to the city and gets them walking on the streets," said Deputy Mayor Faiella. Such projects, he said, will not solve all the ills downtown or in the rest of the city, which, Mayor James emphasized, have not been ignored.
As examples of investment outside the downtown core, the Mayor pointed to projects under way or expected to start in the next six months near Newark International Airport. They range from a 100,000-square-foot warehouse/distribution building rising in the South Ward to Coca-Cola's plan to start construction this spring on a 425,000-square-foot service, production and distribution complex on 50 acres.
And Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus expects to begin construction at a cost of $85 million this summer on two hotels, with a total of 800 rooms and a 50,000-square-foot conference center on 55 acres near the airport. The site will be linked to the airport's monorail system, as well as to the planned light-rail system to downtown. "Our perspective is that Newark has turned around," said Emanuel Stern, president of Hartz.
And early next year, Mayor James said, the city will turn its attention to the construction of market-rate housing, up to 1,000 two-family homes in the neighborhoods.
A key to the success of these plans is what happens downtown. "A lot of balloons are being floated," said Dean Hughes, "and many may never see the light of day, but Newark has no choice but to follow that road and try to build on the momentum of the arts center. Now is an opportune time for the city to pull the pieces together and make its core work as an office node."
But getting the revival to spill into "the balance of the city so residents benefit is the real challenge," said Dean Hughes, who noted: "That has not yet happened in any American city that has fallen has far as Newark."
Downtown Newark began its slide in the 1960's as the middle-class exodus and poor economy drained commerce from its once vibrant core. That exodus was followed by along caravan of retailers, including Macy's, which closed its doors in 1992.
By the 1980's a wave of renewal helped create a swath of glass-walled office towers, including the Gateway complex. But the Gateway Complex did little to reclaim the neighborhood, given the aerial bridges that connect it to Penn Station, easing safety concerns but keeping workers off city streets. The last downtown office building was completed in 1991, before the recession hit and the market soured.
Now that the market has regained some strength, many of the new office investors are betting on Newark and are courting tenants. But while Prudential continues to look for more space, there has not been a stampede of other users into the city. "Commitments from the larger companies in the city have absorbed most of the class A space and those following suit now have to look at the secondary space," said Mr. Eisen of Cushman & Wakefield. Mr. Mirliss added that back-office users who want to beat Manhattan rents might also start to drift to Newark. "If not Jersey City, why not Newark?" he asked rhetorically.
Some of that is starting to happen. McCarter & English, a large law firm, has leased 35,000 square feet of space to expand into 1100 Raymond Boulevard, a mostly vacant 467,360-square-foot building just across the street from the Gateway complex, where the firm is based. Negotiations are under way at 1100 Raymond Boulevard with office users that would take a total of 70,000 square feet, as well with retailers, said Jerald Kaufman, one of the building's owners. The structure is now being renovated.
A FEW New York companies have been drawn to Newark because of the lower rents, Among them is the LZA Group, a large engineering and architectural firm that leased a floor at 24 Commerce Street and is planning to expand into a second, said Robert Wolf, president of Read Properties, the owner. Mr. Wolf said his company, which bought the building in August, was targeting small tenants who are priced out of Manhattan.
Telecommunications firms, including the giant WorldCom, recently leased a total of 300,000 square feet, much of it to set up switching stations, on the upper floors of the former 1.2-million-square-foot Macy's building at 165 Halsey Street, which was purchased 18 months ago by Market-Halsey Urban Renewal of Manhattan. The company has leased the ground floor to 14 retailers.
"I don't expect Newark to boom overnight," said Sam Jemal, a Market-Halsey principal. "Like Wall Street, the streets at the shopping area go desolate at 7 P.M. It will be a slow climb back, and that is healthier."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Office building at 1180 Raymond Boulevard, left, is to be converted into a 915-bed student dorm. At right, New Jersey Performing Arts Center. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 4) New Rutgers law school building. Former Hahne's department store. Gateway complex: under contract. Downtown Newark seen from the 13-month-old New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which drew more than a half million visitors in first year. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GBE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (60%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (60%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); RIOTS (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



434 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
As Crime Drops, Unemployment Is Steady

BYLINE: By KIRSTY SUCATO 

 BODY:
Crime in New Jersey's four largest cities dropped significantly in the first half of 1998, outpacing national trends, according to a report released by the F.B.I. last week.
The report, based on information from state, county and city law enforcement officials, found that total crimes dropped by 24.3 percent in Newark, 15.9 percent in Jersey City, 12.8 percent in Paterson and 8.1 percent in Elizabeth. Nationwide, crime dropped by 4 percent in similarly sized cities. 
 James M. O'Kane, a professor of sociology at Drew University and a specialist in urban crime, said the decline, which has continued for about three years, can be attributed to the aging of the baby-boom generation, better policing and a sharp fall in the use of crack cocaine. He also credited an influx of first-generation Asian immigrants, who tend to commit fewer crimes, and the imposition of tougher prison sentences, particularly for drug offenses.
John Hagerty, a spokesman for the State Police, cautioned that the figures were preliminary and did not include crimes committed in July and August, when the rate tends to spike.
The state's unemployment rate in November was 4.5 percent, the lowest since March 1990 but above the national average of 4.4 percent, according to a report released last week by the state Department of Labor.
The report also revised October's unemployment rate to 4.6 percent. It had been set at 4.5 percent, below the national October average of 4.6 percent. New information, including surveys submitted later by employers, led to the change, said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for the department.
Jobs increased by 6,300 to 3.82 million last month, a new high. KIRSTY SUCATO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ); JERSEY CITY (NJ); PATERSON (NJ); ELIZABETH (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT CRIME RATES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SENTENCING (74%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); COUNTIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); COCAINE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); 

PERSON: SUCATO, KIRSTY

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



435 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
A New Chief Pushes to Restore a Soft-Drink Maverick's Lost Luster

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
FRANK E. WEISE 3D strode confidently to the podium. As chief executive of the Cott Corporation since June, Mr. Weise had ambitious long-term goals that he was eager to lay out for the audience of money managers and analysts at a beverage industry conference in New York last month.
But before he could utter a word, almost everyone left the room. 
 While much of the exodus could be attributed to an earlier speaker's question-and-answer session in an adjacent room, the stampede was symbolic of Cott's fall from grace. The company was a Wall Street darling just a few years ago, with its brazen challenges to the Coca-Cola Company and Pepsico Inc. and the runaway growth of its cornerstone business, private-label soft drinks. But a price war between Coke and Pepsi eroded Cott's main advantage as the low-priced alternative, while internal problems erupted in areas ranging from profitability to accounting practices to customer service. And then Cott's founder, biggest shareholder and guiding spirit, Gerald Pencer, died in February after a yearlong struggle with brain cancer.
Cott is still the fourth-biggest soft-drink company in the world, behind Coke, Pepsi and Cadbury Schweppes, which makes Dr Pepper and 7-Up. But the brand-name giants no longer worry about Cott. "We take all forms of competition seriously," said Larry Jabbonsky, a Pepsi spokesman. "But private label has not been among our top concerns of late."
Cott was in disarray when Mr. Weise arrived. A veteran of Procter & Gamble and the Campbell Soup Company, Mr. Weise, 53, went directly into turnaround mode despite the uncertainties facing the company. "There are many times when I walk down dark hallways, and sometimes you don't know what's going to happen when you open one of those doors," he said. "But you stick to your knitting. You stick to your values."
At the beverage conference, Mr. Weise stuck to his speech, and later noted proudly that many analysts returned to the room as he spoke.
Mr. Weise was recruited by a search firm retained by the Pencer family, and he sought the approval of Thomas H. Lee, the buyout specialist who now controls much of the Pencer stake, before taking the job -- probably a wise move, since Cott's board is heavy with Lee appointees.
Mr. Weise's first order of business, after hiring new executives for key marketing and sales positions, was to tackle the customer service problem. The record was pretty bad: Forty percent of customers were getting orders filled incorrectly, late or both, the company said. And it took a toll.
"Last summer, we couldn't ship all of the product we had, and some customers delayed or canceled promotional activity because of that," Mr. Weise said. Even though the company had brought efficient new plants on line, he said, "we'd never trained the people right."
Investors were also annoyed with Cott when Mr. Weise arrived. To ease their concerns, he did away with an unpopular accounting practice -- amortizing slotting fees paid to supermarkets over the life of contracts -- that many felt had the effect of exaggerating earnings. He also switched to a Dec. 31 fiscal year and began reporting results in United States, not Canadian, dollars. (The company is based in Toronto.)
Cott's rapid growth had left it an unwieldy hodgepodge, with more than 2,000 different brands and packages to track in the United States, Britain and Canada. Now, Mr. Weise said, unprofitable accounts will be pruned, sluggish businesses like a line of pet foods will be sold, and capital expenditures are on hold. "I'm going to make these assets sweat," he said. To turn up the heat on senior management, Mr. Weise requires them to invest in Cott shares, and he says most of his own money is invested in the company.
Improving efficiency and accountability is one thing; getting the company to grow on the top line is another. "The part that remains a question mark is the growth," says Bill Pecoriello, a beverage analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. Coke and Pepsi are aggressively aiming at mass merchandisers like Wal-Mart Stores, historically Cott's biggest outlets, Mr. Pecoriello said. And competing private-label beverage makers regard Cott as a sitting duck.
"You have two categories of competition -- first Coke and Pepsi, the national brands, and second, the regional private-label players who are trying to cherry-pick Cott's customers," Mr. Pecoriello said. "Cott has had such horrible customer service in recent years, and that's what these regional companies try to use to steal the customers away."
WAL-MART, which sells the Sam's line of soft drinks made by Cott, is not about to drop the company, but the competition gives Wal-Mart negotiating ammunition and may cut into Cott's profits, analysts said. A Wal-Mart spokesman said only that the company is "very pleased with our relationship with the Cott Corporation."
The third-quarter results, announced on Friday, brought more bad news for Cott: a net loss of $68.3 million, or $1.10 a share. Most of that loss was because of restructuring, the company said.
It is hard to find signs of worry in the bright blue eyes and dazzling smile of the courtly Mr. Weise. Enthusiasm may be his strongest suit, though he also has a track record in innovation. At Procter, where he was hired in 1967 fresh from a master's program in business economics at Lehigh University, he oversaw the development of Olestra, the fat substitute now used in potato chips and other foods. Lured away in 1992 to become chief financial officer of Campbell Soup, Mr. Weise helped acquire a salsa company and pushed for expansion at the Pepperidge Farm and Godiva divisions.
It still stings that Campbell passed him over for its top job last year, but in his typically chipper manner, he said that departing Campbell gave him more freedom "to control my own destiny." His last stop before Cott was a family-held maker of private-label sanitary products; he helped sell the company before he left.
In style, Mr. Weise could not be a greater contrast to his flamboyant predecessor. Cott used to be the screaming eagle, or maybe parakeet, of the soft-drink business, and Mr. Pencer was at the forefront, declaring full-scale war on the market leaders. "They were poking a little finger in the eyes of some very big bears," said John D. Sicher, publisher of Beverage Digest, a newsletter. Cott never approached Coke or Pepsi in sales volume, but its presence did force them to lower prices in supermarkets, a major profit source for soft-drink companies, because stores used the Cott threat to gain leverage in negotiations.
The Cott-Coke confrontation turned nasty in 1994 when M. Douglas Ivester, now Coke's chairman and chief executive, gave a speech at an industry meeting in which he scoffed at "parasites" in a context that made clear he was referring to Cott. Mr. Pencer riposted shortly afterward that he was happy to be a parasite, if that was "someone who has the arrogance to offer a comparable product to Coke's at a significantly lower cost."
Cott's approach is more conservative now. "There is room for both private-label and branded offerings," Mr. Weise told the November beverage conference. And in an interview, he said: "Coke and Pepsi are getting sharper, but I'm not after Coke and Pepsi. We're playing in a specialty segment, a $5 billion segment, and we have a 40 percent share of that. It's Coke, Pepsi and a third player, and I want to be that third player."
What to make of this evolution? Cott has "basically gone from double-breasted to pinstriped," said Jennifer Solomon, a beverage analyst with Salomon Smith Barney who followed the company in the days when Mr. Pencer was in charge. "There's no more complicated accounting, no more 'We're going to beat Coke at their own game.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank E. Weise 3d, a consumer products veteran from Procter & Gamble and Campbell Soup, went directly into corporate turnaround mode when he became chief executive of the Cott Corporation last June. (Arne Glassbury for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: Even as Cott's Market Share Grows...
The graph shows the share of carbonated soft drink sales in the United States since 1992.
 
...Its Profits Have Wavered...
Net income for fiscal years ending on various days in January.
 
...And It Remains A Distant Fourth
Leading carbonated soft-drink companies, ranked by United States market share in 1997.
 
Pepsico -- 30.9%
Coca-Cola -- 43.9%
Dr Pepper/Seven Up --14.5%
Cott -- 3.2%
National Beverage -- 2.0%
Other -- 5.5%
(Sources: Beverage Digest/Maxwell; Cott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: COT (NYSE) (93%); BCB (TSX) (93%); PEP (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (83%); CPB (NYSE) (66%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (93%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (84%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (66%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (66%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC; COCA-COLA CO; COTT CORP COTT CORP (93%); PEPSICO INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (83%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (66%); CADBURY LTD (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEPSICO INC; COCA-COLA CO; COTT CORP NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES SOFT DRINKS (93%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); PRIVATE LABELS (88%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); SALES FORCE (67%); APPROVALS (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (60%); PRICE CUTTING (54%); BRAIN CANCER (52%); CANCER (52%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L FRANK E WEISE 3D (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



436 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: PARKCHESTER;
After 7 Years, Work Begins

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
Seven years ago, Edward A. Watkins looked around his neighborhood in the Parkchester housing development and saw deteriorating schools, kids hanging out on the street with nothing to do and few services for the elderly. He decided the neighborhood needed a community center, and approached the pastor of the local parish, Mgsr. Charles M. Kavanagh, for help. Last week, Mr. Watkins finally saw his plan come to fruition.
On Wednesday, community leaders and Bronx politicians gathered on Metropolitan Avenue to present architectural designs for a new $12 million community center and to announce that they had secured most of the money needed to build it. 
 "It has been a seven-year journey," said Mr. Watkins, the president of the Parkchester South Condominium Board, which represents 3,500 of the development's nearly 6,000 property owners. "I'm happy because it allowed me to use my talents to bring people together."
The center is a joint effort of the Parkchester Preservation Company (a partnership that bought much of the complex in July) and St. Raymond's Family Outreach (a program of St. Raymond's Parish in the heart of Parkchester). A tax-free city bond of $7 million to $8 million, which Monsignor Kavanagh secured, will help finance the center. The Parkchester Preservation Company will provide $2 million, with another $1 million coming from the Bronx Borough President's office. A spokeswoman for Parkchester Preservation, Cheri Fein, said efforts were under way to raise the rest of the money.
The project will involve tearing down a garage on Purdy Street and in its place building a three-story structure that will include day-care centers, a pool, a fitness center, a theater, an 8,400-square-foot gymnasium and basketball court, a social service center and other facilities.
"It's really going to enhance our area as far as providing for our seniors and the youth," said Harry L. Brown, president of Parkchester North. He said there were no such centers in the neighborhood.
Construction of the community center will take place in conjunction with a $180 million renovation of the Parkchester complex. The overhaul was approved last month by the Parkchester South Condominium board and will go before the Parkchester North board early next year. NINA SIEGAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing: The center would include day-care centers, a pool, a theater and a gym. (Peter L. Gluck & Partners, Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PARKCHESTER PRESERVATION CO PARKCHESTER PRESERVATION CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKCHESTER PRESERVATION CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ST RAYMOND'S ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (BRONX); PARKCHESTER HOUSING COMPLEX (NYC) RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AGING (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); APPROVALS (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); BASKETBALL (62%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA DAVID T BROWN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



437 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
How the Small-Cap Premium Went Into Hiding

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of the Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Alexandria, Va. His column on investment strategies will appear every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE trip from gown to town can be a bumpy one. Just ask anyone who has invested in small-capitalization stocks. According to a number of impressive academic studies, small-company stocks have significantly outperformed their larger-cap brethren over the long term -- a pattern known as the small-cap premium. Yet in the real world over the last 15 years, despite spurts of outperformance, small caps have generally lagged behind.
Consider the performance of the Dimensional Fund Advisors 9-10 Small Company fund, the index fund that most closely follows the methodology of the academic studies. It invests in the 20 percent of New York Stock Exchange stocks with the smallest market capitalizations, as well as companies of similar size on the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq; such companies, on average, are much smaller than those in the typical small-cap fund. DFA 9-10 Small Company produced a 10.7 percent annualized return over the last 15 years, through Nov. 30, according to Lipper Inc., versus 17.2 percent for the Vanguard Index 500, which tracks the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a large-cap benchmark. 
 To be sure, small-cap stocks have rallied forcefully since August, leading some people to predict that they will soon reassert their historical dominance. But so far, such a belief is proving, as Samuel Johnson once said, to be a triumph of hope over experience. Impressive as the small-cap rally has been, the large caps have performed even better: The Index 500 gained 22.5 percent from Aug. 31 to Dec. 11, versus 13.4 percent for the DFA fund.
Several schools of thought have emerged to explain what is happening to the small-cap premium. Each appears to hold a portion of the truth.
According to one school, it was wrong to ever think that the small-cap premium was very large in practice. This group says academic studies were seriously flawed because they ignored the higher transaction costs incurred when trading small stocks.
Those costs are substantial, according to research by Donald B. Keim, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Professor Keim looked at the total costs of trading -- not only commissions and bid-asked spreads, but also the impact of trading on the prices of securities being bought or sold -- between 1991 and 1993. He found that total trading costs for the buying and selling of the smallest stocks were sometimes more than 7 percent. For the largest stocks, by contrast, they were about one-half of 1 percent.
Such costs can quickly devour the small-cap premium. According to Ibbotson Associates, a Chicago research firm, that advantage, before trading costs, was just 3 percent, annualized, from 1925 through 1981. (Comparable figures are difficult to obtain after 1981, when Ibbotson started taking trading costs into account.)
Does all this mean that the small-cap premium was a figment of a few finance professors' misguided methodology? Some people say yes, but Economics 101 tells us otherwise. Assuming a relatively efficient market, small-cap stocks must outperform large caps over the long term, in order to reward investors for their greater risk and lower liquidity. This school holds that there must be a small-cap premium in reality, not just in theory.
IF so, transaction costs are at most a contributing factor in explaining the lack of a small-cap premium over the last 15 years. One factor that can explain it is the growing institutional dominance of the stock market.
According to two Harvard professors, Paul A. Gompers and Andrew Metrick, the fraction of the United States stock market held by large institutions nearly doubled from 1980 to 1996, from 28 percent to 52 percent. But, for a variety of reasons -- including restrictions on what percentage of a company's outstanding stock such investors can hold -- only a tiny amount of that institutional ownership is in small caps. This has hurt the performance of small caps by reducing the demand for them, relative to large stocks.
In other words, the increasing institutional dominance of the market has led to enormous stock market share being shifted from small caps into large caps. No wonder that the small caps have had such a hard time keeping up.
The good news for small-cap investing is that this trend can't last forever. And when it stops, or reverses, large caps will no longer enjoy their performance advantage. No one can pinpoint when this will happen, but the longer it takes, I believe, the stronger the small caps' subsequent performance.
Small caps will someday outshine large caps again. Yet even this silver lining is accompanied by a gloomy cloud. The small caps' relative advantage will not be big enough to pay the huge transaction costs that would accompany frequent trading.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Institutions Rule"
The graph shows the percentage of stocks owned by big institutional investors--those with more than $100 million under their control since 1980.
(Source: Paul A. Gompers and Andrew Metrick, Harvard University professors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); DIMENSIONAL FUND ADVISORS INC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK DONALD B KEIM (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



438 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Hijacking The Rulebook

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt is the executive editor of Governing magazine and the author, most recently, of "Lost City."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A pretty good argument can be made that the defining moment of American democracy didn't occur in 1776 or 1787, as commonly supposed, but in 1801 -- on the day that John Adams, having been beaten at the polls, quietly packed his things and went home. Only then did we know for sure that the system worked as advertised.
The routine transfer of power may not be the most dramatic feature of American democracy, but it is the most important. It separates us from the majority of countries in the world, which still have not achieved it. Conceding defeat and going home, or staying on in the minority and allowing the winner to govern -- those are not just elements of good manners and sportsmanship. They are the core of patriotism. 
 Those are rather windy thoughts, but I have had a hard time escaping them the last few weeks as I've tried to make some sense of the events surrounding President Clinton, Congress and impeachment. What will people say about all this 20 years from now? Will they quiz each other on the minutiae of the Starr report, as they do on the contents of the Warren report? Will the cigar and the stained dress become icons of American political history? Or will posterity simply conclude that one of the two political parties, having lost an election, saw an opportunity to nullify it and proved too weak to resist the temptation?
You may find that a difficult question. I don't. I feel reasonably certain of the final verdict on the current impeachment affair because I think history will see it as the climax of a six-year period marred by a troubling and deepening failure of the Republican Party to play within the established constitutional rules.
It was on Election Night 1992, not very far into the evening, that the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, hinted at the way his party planned to conduct itself in the months ahead: it would filibuster any significant legislation the new Democratic President proposed, forcing him to obtain 60 votes for Senate passage.
This was a form of scorched-earth partisan warfare unprecedented in modern political life. Congress is supposed to operate by majority vote. It is true that the filibuster has a long and disreputable Senate history and that, over the years, it has been used more by Democrats than by Republicans. But only after 1992 did it become the centerpiece of opposition conduct toward an elected President. What the Republicans did in the Senate in 1993 amounted to an unreported constitutional usurpation. It should have been denounced as such at the time, but it wasn't. The punditocracy chose not to notice.
In any case, it worked. Little that the President proposed became law in the two years that he operated with Democratic majorities. There was no health care reform, no economic stimulus package. On the merits, that is just as well. But the procedural consequences turned out to be grave: Congressional Republicans were tempted by success into even more dangerous constitutional mischief.
In the fall of 1995, emboldened by new majorities in both the House and the Senate, they forced the closure of the Federal Government. For all the millions of words that have been written about this event then and since, the reality of it has rarely been portrayed in succinct terms. This was not a political showdown -- it was an attempted constitutional coup.
The Founding Fathers provided a mechanism for resolving disputes between Congress and the White House: Congress passes a bill, the President vetoes it, and if sufficient votes do not exist to override the veto, Congress lives with the decision. For the Republicans to act as they did in 1995 -- attempting to make the President sign legislation against his will rather than trying to find the votes to override him -- was an act of recklessness so blatant that even an inattentive public understood it. Newt Gingrich backed down, the Government reopened, and Mr. Clinton was re-elected.
But Republicans were already on the road to further adventure. In August of 1994, they had orchestrated the dismissal of Robert Fiske, the independent counsel investigating the Whitewater land deal, and replaced him with Kenneth Starr.
Reasonable people may differ on the quality of the evidence Mr. Starr has accumulated, on the tactics he has used, on the way he has presented himself to the public. But his appointment in the first place is impossible to defend.
Republicans selected as independent counsel a lawyer who was already involved in consultations with a plaintiff suing the President in a civil dispute. No one concerned with ultimate constitutional fairness could possibly have made such a choice; no legislative majority interested in the appearance of justice could ever have approved it.
Now it is four years later. Congress is consumed by impeachment, and the majority party seems genuinely puzzled over the absence of public support for the process. It shouldn't be. The American people aren't suspicious about impeachment because of their love for Bill Clinton. They are suspicious, in large part, because of the track record of those bringing the charges. It's not that there is no legitimate case to be made against the President. It's that Republicans, over a six-year career of consistent disrespect for constitutional rules, have forfeited any right to be taken seriously in making it.
The unpleasant truth is that Congressional Republicans, in the generation before 1994, spent too many years out of power -- too many years on the sidelines, uninvolved in managing the governmental process and free to lob grenades at the institutions that make it work. Eventually, they became very effective at it; that is one reason they won the election of 1994.
Habits learned over decades do not fade easily. Having been lifted by the American electorate into a position of genuine power, they have continued to behave more like a party of insurgents, probing for cracks in the constitutional structure rather than taking its rules seriously and looking for ways to make them work.
If Republicans in Congress have a common self-image, it is an image of conservatism. No doubt every one of the Republicans in the current House would accept "conservative" as an ideological label. But being a conservative must, in the end, be about more than tax cuts or family values. It must be about taking some responsibility for the fragile procedures and institutions that over 200 years have made an orderly public life possible.
There is nothing conservative about the way Republicans in Congress have conducted themselves, either in the current impeachment debate or in most of the important confrontations of the past six years. The American people seem to know that, and show every sign that they are willing to judge accordingly.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jesse Gordon and Bob Salazar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION; CONSTITUTIONS; HISTORY POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FILIBUSTER (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); ETHICS (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; EHRENHALT, ALAN; ADAMS, JOHN (1735-1826) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



439 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3701 words

HEADLINE: One Dad's Redemption;
Does Ben Middleton's Private Revolution Herald a Public Shift?

BYLINE: By DAVID COHEN 

 BODY:
AS Benjamin Middleton Jr. and his son approach the corner of Marcus Garvey Boulevard and Hancock Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, their pace quickens. Casting an edgy glance around and noticing the drug dealers on their usual turf, Mr. Middleton automatically shifts his hand from his son's head and loops it protectively around his shoulder.
Until then, the banter between father and son on the short walk home from school had been playful, frisky. 
 "So how was your day today, guy?"
"Fine."
"You want me to carry your bag?"
"Sure. I got 85 percent for my Beethoven project. Teacher says if I remember to bring in the CD's, she'll give me a 90."
"Hmmm. You're a pretty smart guy. Kind of handsome, too."
"I know, dad."
"Who asked you, guy? Don't you start getting conceited, guy."
But now there is a tense lull as the two observe the unspoken rules of the gantlet: look straight ahead, show no fear, just go about your business. Mr. Middleton, 45, neatly dressed in a T-shirt and pressed jeans and wearing glasses, could have taken a safer route home. But he has strong feelings about the dealers who congregate on their corner.
"They stare me down like I'm some kind of disease, but I am not a runner," he said. "I pay my rent, I try to be an upstanding citizen. They are the ones making the place unsafe for kids. They, not me, should be moved off."
His son, 11, has been taught to be wary of the men who make the street their office. But the boy doesn't know exactly why, nor does he understand what those men actually do with the white powder they pass furtively in small cellophane bags. He doesn't know, either, that not too long ago his dad had more than a passing familiarity with such men and their world.
Until five or six years ago, Mr. Middleton, by his own admission, was a marijuana dealer, a habitual crack user, a small-time armed robber, a womanizer and an absent father. Then, gradually, he underwent a transformation. He "took on fatherhood," physically, emotionally and financially. And as he did, his limp life took on purpose and straightened out like a windsock filling with air.
What made him embark on the journey from gangster to loving dad? Was there a magical moment when the penny dropped?
It is the American way to admire a man's ability to rise above his demons as an extraordinary act of will, a triumph for the individual. Yet what makes Mr. Middleton's story rise above this oft-told tale is that, as he tells it, he has tended to be as much a follower as a leader, and perhaps more of a follower. Peer pressure played a critical role in shaping who he was, as well as who he has become.
It may be that what happened to him reflects larger forces at play in urban neighborhoods, among them a new sensibility in which men who shun their responsibilities as fathers are disrespected on the street.
"Up until five or six years ago, it was considered cool to dodge responsibility as a father among many young African-American males," said Ed Pitt, associate director of the Fatherhood Project at the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit research group in Manhattan. "The super-hip line of the man in the street was 'a player plays but never pays.' Today that attitude is uncool."
"We are witnessing a heightened sense of understanding among men of the consequences of that attitude for children, and it is resonating across ethnic groups, at every level, throughout the country," Mr. Pitt said. "We see it in the increased number of fathers showing up at schools, day-care centers, health centers, parenting classes -- across the board. I don't mean to suggest that we have a total turnaround, but we are seeing a significant shift in the making, a shift toward more engaged fathering up and down the income spectrum."
Geoffrey Canada, whose work as president of the Rheedlen Centers for Children and Families, in Harlem, brings him into daily contact with African-American fathers, said that from what he has seen in New York, the fatherhood message is "just starting" to penetrate the consciousness of men, both younger and older.
"For the first time, I am hearing conversations among men about their role as fathers," said Mr. Canada, who is the author of "Reaching Up for Manhood." "For the first time, I am seeing men visiting their friends and taking along their babies, spending quality time as groups of fathers and children together, just like mothers have always done. This is new, and it suggests that social relationships between men and children are changing to include nurturing as well as providing."
"Men, especially poor men, never used to talk about being fathers in this way," Mr. Canada said. "What we are witnessing is a revolution that is still in its infancy, that could easily be set back, but a revolution nonetheless that is changing the code of the streets and the code of manhood and which could have profoundly positive results for society."
Prof. Aisha Ray, an expert on African-American families at the Erikson Institute, a graduate program affiliated with Loyola University in Chicago that researches child development, said small-scale studies and anecdotal evidence tended to confirm the trend of African-American fathers becoming involved with their children. But no large representative studies have been done.
"As things stand, we have little hard data on what percentage of fathers are actually engaged, how that figure is changing over time and what critical interventions cause an absent father to return to his family," Professor Ray said. "Is there a kind of epiphany? Is it family? Is it peer pressure? It really is a mystery."
 
'I Never Raised You To Be Like This'
The evening 11 years ago that his wife, Mary, went into labor, Mr. Middleton came home from work and went out as he usually did, he said, with one of his brothers. In a darkened hallway of a Bronx tenement, they lit up a crack pipe, starting another hedonistic binge of alcohol and cocaine. Mr. Middleton could smoke up to 20 vials of crack a night, he said, each $10 vial delivering a 15-minute rush. The drugs calmed him at first, but as the hours passed he started feeling paranoid and hallucinating. Imaginary shadows leaped from the darkness to "get" him, a sensation he didn't like. He wondered why he did it. "Habit," he guessed. Light up. Inhale. Light up. Inhale. It gave a certain rhythm to his life.
A few hours later, around the time that his baby boy entered the world, Mr. Middleton was otherwise engaged, he said, having sex with another woman.
He remembers rolling home around 5 A.M., still woozy, and surprised to find his wife gone. He knew that she was "very pregnant," but he hadn't paid attention to just how far along she was. His telephone answering machine was flashing, he said, and there were messages from his mother, each more exasperated than the last. He still remembers what she said: "Ben, where are you? You have a son. I never raised you to be like this."
His mother and other family members declined to be interviewed, his mother saying that she did not want to publicly relive a painful chapter in the life of her family.
Mr. Middleton grew up in Red Hook, Brooklyn, the eldest of five brothers and one sister. His parents were hard-working people, his father a mechanic for the post office, his mother a schoolteacher. "I had magnificent parents," Mr. Middleton said. "We never had a starving day in our life. My mother was the driving force behind us. My dad was a quiet man who never raised his voice, never lifted a hand to us."
His sister has a degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. A brother went to Duke.
But 30 years ago, when he was growing up, there was Red Hook to contend with, then a pressure cooker of a neighborhood where street survival was the name of the game and peer pressure smashed against parental influence. Crime was the currency.
He recalled how he and his brothers were held up by local hoodlums: " 'Give us your money; now drop your pants,' they instructed us. This was in broad daylight, with people around. That's how tough the neighborhood was. One of my brothers, he's stubborn, didn't want to give them his money so they pistol-whipped him. After they left, we got our rusty .38 pistol and went looking for them. My brother saw one and shot at him but the gun jammed. The other guy fired back and hit another one of my brothers in the stomach. I carried him home. He almost died in my arms."
Although Mr. Middleton is the oldest sibling, he called the brother a year younger than he "the leader." He had a powerful influence over Mr. Middleton as a young adult. "He was bigger, wittier and smarter than I was," he said. "Boy, he made me laugh. He could have been a comedian. He had a way about him, a charisma, that was very influential."
When Mr. Middleton was 16, he and his brother were expelled from school for chronic truancy. Around that time, he remembered, their mother discovered a five-pound stash of marijuana under their beds and issued an ultimatum: Either she flushed it down the toilet or they left the house.
The brothers found an apartment on St. Marks Place in the East Village. To pay the rent, he said, they sold marijuana and committed occasional armed robberies in which they would dress up as telephone repair workers, donning hard hats, overalls and utility belts to gain entry into homes where they knew drugs were sold, and sticking up the dealers. They pulled off perhaps a half-dozen armed robberies, he said, sometimes emerging empty handed, other times making off with cash, drugs, jewelry, cameras and video and stereo equipment.
They never really thought about what they would do if somebody resisted, which luckily never happened, Mr. Middleton said. But one day as they walked out of a building they had broken into, the police were waiting. The two brothers were arrested, he said, but the charges were later dropped because their victim, a drug dealer, would not cooperate with the authorities.
As Mr. Middleton tells it, he was a comically bad robber. In his leather briefcase he hid a sawed-off shotgun with no firing pin and a stash of marijuana. One day, as he walked the street holding the briefcase overstuffed with reefers, the gun was pushed so tightly against the side that its imprint was clearly visible to a police officer driving by. The officer promptly apprehended him, and he did a short spell -- "three days, perhaps a week" -- at Rikers Island before luck again intervened. The case was dismissed, he said, on a technicality over the police search. A spokeswoman for the Manhattan District Attorney's office said the arrest had occurred too long ago for her office to confirm it.
Mr. Middleton took the hint, he said, and quit as a petty hoodlum. He trained as an offset printer and went to work. His brother, he said, reckoned he could beat the odds, and ended up spending the next 15 years in and out of prison.
 
Daddy's Not Coming Back. Or Maybe He Is.
Fatherhood came to Mr. Middleton in his mid-30's, but he was not ready or willing to take it on. He and his wife had been married for eight years; until she got pregnant, he had concluded that they could not have children. "It was an unwanted surprise," he said. "I didn't want to be a father. I even told Mary that."
When his son was around 2, he ran away. He caught a Greyhound bus to Atlanta, to visit a former girlfriend, telling no one that he was leaving or where he was headed. "I still had wild seeds inside me," he said. He had intended to go for two weeks but stayed 18 months, never picking up the phone, or a pen, to tell his family where he was.
His wife, he said, told their son, "Your daddy's not coming back."
But his son insisted: "My daddy coming back. My daddy coming back."
Through a chance encounter with a friend on the streets of Atlanta, Mr. Middleton said, he heard that his father was seriously ill, so he caught a bus back to New York. By this time his son was nearly 4. "I felt like manure," he said. "I had missed a whole chunk of his life. At that moment, I knew that I had messed up. I thought he was going to hate me, that there might be another man in his life." Somewhere a penny rattled inside him, and almost dropped.
Mrs. Middleton, described by her husband as a religious woman who believed in forgiveness, found it within herself to take him back. He got a job, earning $700 a week in the printing room of an accounting firm, Deloitte, Haskins & Sells.
But drugs and alcohol continued to dog him. "I was what they called a functional addict," he said. "I could do the drugs and then go to work and still function in my job." But he couldn't function in his family. On Friday, when he got his paycheck, he said, he headed straight for the streets. From Friday to Sunday, he cracked jokes, played chess and spent everything he had earned on getting high and gambling with friends, many of whom were also failing fathers. When he finally came home, he said, he would tell his wife, "Honey, I don't have money for the rent."
Mrs. Middleton worked as a computer operator for the city's Department of Buildings, so they weren't penniless. But one Sunday, when he came home, it was not his wife's but his son's disappointment that he had to face.
"Hi Daddy, hi Daddy, can you buy me a bag of potato chips?" he remembered the boy asking.
He couldn't. He had no money. "I had just spent $700 on myself getting high and I didn't have 25 cents for my son to buy him a bag of potato chips," he said. "I looked in my son's eyes. I saw that he had not given up on me, and I said to myself, 'Now this has got to stop, this doesn't make any sense.' I just kept telling myself, 'No, no, no, I'm not going to do this anymore.' "
Was that when the penny dropped? "The penny dropped several times," he said. "I just never heard it fall."
 
Kicking Old Habits, Leaving the Streets
His cleanup act took place over two or three years, he said, as he moved first from spending his entire paycheck on drugs and alcohol to putting some aside to take care of his family's financial responsibilities. The next, much more difficult stage, was giving up his partying life style altogether, kicking his habits, leaving his street friends behind and taking on the role of father and husband in a qualitatively different way.
Perhaps he just grew up. "I was just a boy, doing drugs, thinking only of my needs," he said. "When I realized that I had a son and that he was relying on me and that I had to put him first, when I was able to throw that switch, that's when I became a man."
But what made him realize that being a real man meant putting his child's interests before his own?
True, his parents had taught him the difference between right and wrong, given him a core set of decent -- though long-buried -- values.
And his wife's decision to stick with him appears to have been significant. Research on fatherhood shows that a father's relationship with the mother of his child is one of the most important indicators of how engaged he will be as a parent. But Mr. Middleton had lived his life far less under the direct sway of his parents and his wife, and much more, he said, under the influence of his peers.
Elijah Anderson, a professor of sociology and social sciences at the University of Pennsylvania and the author of "Code of the Street" (to be published in April by W. W. Norton), argues that "it is above all a desperate search for respect from peers that governs social relations among many inner-city African-American men." And, he said, "this search for respect has spawned a code of the street that plays a significant part in socially organizing the community and defining manhood."
During the years in which Mr. Middleton was undergoing his personal transformation, three new influences entered his life: two colleagues at work and his church pastor. All three men are dedicated fathers and vocal about it.
Mr. Middleton met Pedro Morales about six years ago, after getting a job as an offset printer with Warburg Dillon Read, the brokerage house, in Manhattan. Mr. Morales, his new supervisor, was a church-going man who became involved in the Promise Keepers, an evangelical Christian movement for men. A single father, he had reared a daughter since she was a toddler.
"When I first met Ben, he was always strung out, drinking and partying," Mr. Morales recalled. "But I saw potential in him, so I started schooling him. I took him under my wing and tried to point him in the right direction, away from his old friends, getting him to put his family first."
Mr. Middleton remembered tagging along to one of Mr. Morales's Promise Keepers meetings at which fatherhood was at the top, middle and bottom of the agenda. At the same time, he developed a friendship with another printer at Dillon Read, Robert Lee. "Robert had a cute, chubby little son who he used to bring to work every so often," Mr. Middleton said, adding that sometimes he would bring his own son along and "at lunch we'd play chess and just shoot the breeze about our boys."
Just two guys sitting around, talking about their kids. Nothing special. Except that for Mr. Middleton, it was a different way of interacting with other men. He began noticing men who were committed to being fathers, he said, which made it easier for him to do the same. One day, he said, his son was sick, and he stayed home to care for him. A boss wondered why his wife didn't stay home with the child. Mr. Middleton was furious. "Listen here," he remembered telling the man. "Sometimes my wife does stay home. Now I'm going to tell you something else. I like working here, I appreciate the job, but if my son gets sick, nothing takes preference over him."
At the Concord Baptist Church on Marcy Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, which his family attended regularly and to which Mr. Middleton returned, he was getting the fatherhood message in surround-sound. The new pastor, Gary V. Simpson, a father in his 30's, believes in leading the 4,000 congregants by word and deed. Besides sermonizing about responsible fatherhood and creating programs to help men connect with their children, like regular workshops and monthly meetings and an annual retreat for men, Mr. Simpson offered his own priorities for fathers to follow. "Being a father is my first ministry," he said in a recent interview. "Every day, between 3 P.M. and 5:30 P.M., people know they can't make appointments with me because that's when I do my daughter's homework and prepare meals."
Mr. Simpson said that the Million Man March in Washington, which he attended in October 1995, "was a catalyst for conversation and introspection in the African-American community about the proper role of fathers."
"It put the issue at the top of a lot of agendas," he said.
The results of his church outreach programs have been positive, Mr. Simpson said, but incremental. "I have small victories," he said. "Family by family, one by one, fathers who were uninvolved deciding to come back. But in Bed-Stuy, 58 percent of families are headed by single mothers, according to the 1990 census, and so, candidly, we still have a heck of a long way to go."
Mr. Middleton represents one such small victory. "I grabbed onto the reins thrown by Simpson and prayed," he said. It has helped that "being an involved father has become socially acceptable on the street."
"I see many more young men taking care of their children than there used to be. I feel part of a norm," he added.
Changes in Federal welfare laws offer states a chance to play a role in this shift. "Past philosophy has been to treat fathers only as economic providers of child support," said Stanley Bernard, a senior associate at the National Center for Children in Poverty, at Columbia University. "Welfare reform allows states to set aside welfare-to-work dollars to train noncustodial fathers whereas previously only mothers could benefit. The funds can be used to help fathers get jobs and also for parenting training. There is an opportunity for states to play a role in redefining the role of fathers and acknowledge their noneconomic contributions. About 22 states have said they will consider it, although New York has not, but none have moved forward."
Recent events have been a test for Mr. Middleton, who lost his job at Dillon Read 14 months ago, when the company merged with United Bank of Switzerland and his department was downsized. Despite a vigorous job search, he says, he has picked up only seasonal work with the Postal Service. Professor Ray says research shows that one of the most common causes of fathers' disengaging from families is extended unemployment. But Mr. Middleton has held firm. And, he says, he has helped persuade the brother who was his partner in crime to enter a rehabilitation program. The wheel has come full circle.
"Now I am the leader, the older brother," Mr. Middleton says. "I look at myself in the mirror and I say, 'Ben, you're not a bad lookin' man.' Before, I couldn't even look at myself. I was always dirty or wired. I'm starting to like myself a lot more. It feels good to be doing the right thing."
It is his son who makes him strong. "When I came back into his life, he was timid. Now he's out of his shell, confident, his personality flowering," Mr. Middleton says. "Maybe getting older played a part, or maybe it's because he feels more valued. Something inside him just connected."
Their walk home from school is over. Mr. Middleton sits on the sofa in their small apartment in a brownstone and watches his son do his homework. "He's an A student, hardly ever needs help," he says. A police siren blares, riding in on the breeze.
The boy suddenly looks up and says, "Dad, when I grow up, I want to be a pro wrestler or a lawyer."
"You'll make a fine lawyer," his father says, adding softly to himself, "That's what I always wanted to be."
"Why, guy?" he asks his son. "Why do you want to be a lawyer?"
"Some people who get into trouble are actually innocent," the boy replies. "I want to protect them."
And so the evolution of Benjamin Middleton Jr., just another Brooklyn dad, rolls on.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A few years after his son's birth, Benjamin Middleton Jr. "took on fatherhood," physically, emotionally and financially. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Drawings. (Illustrations by Anthony Russo)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; BLACKS CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CANNABIS (72%); COCAINE (72%); FAMILY (64%); ROBBERY (50%); 

PERSON: MIDDLETON, BENJAMIN; COHEN, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



440 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
The Case For Time Off

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. I work for a small company with 30 or so employees. People who have been with the company a year receive only four days of sick and vacation time combined. All of us feel overworked and underpaid. How can we get the owner to give us more time off?
 
A. Everyone, with the possible exception of Bill Gates, feels overworked and underpaid, and state governments generally leave it to companies to decide time-off policy. So before you go to the boss, conduct a quick, if unscientific, survey to see how similar companies approach the issue. 
 "Do some benchmarking in your industry," advised Virginia Byrd, president of the Work-Life Coalition, a nonprofit group in San Diego that promotes workplace policies to help people balance their professional and personal lives. Check vacation and sick-leave policies at rival companies of about the same size in your area. You don't want to raise the issue, only to discover that the competition grants even less time.
Still, in the likely event that four days is comparatively stingy, you shouldn't march en masse into the boss's office to make demands. There may be safety in numbers, but putting your boss on the defensive is not the best way to succeed, warned Tom Jackson, chairman of Equinox Interactive, a human resources consulting firm and software developer based in Woodstock, N.Y.
Attempts to shame your boss can prove unproductive, too. Grousing about how much vacation Competitor X gives its employees just might earn the suggestion that you go work for Competitor X. "You need to go at this in a positive way," said Susan Seitel, president of the Work and Family Connection, a consulting and information firm in Minnetonka, Minn. Instead of saying you want to work less, she advised, frame the issue as part of a broader quest, to make workers more committed and productive.
"In business, everybody is looking for what's in it for them -- and certainly the boss is, " she said. "Help him share a vision of what could happen if people in the company were as committed as they could possibly be, rather than point out to him what a jerk he's been."
If you're lucky, management will take the bait and ask for supporting data. "There is an enormous amount of evidence that helping employees achieve work-life balance pays off in increased morale, reduced turnover, increased loyalty and a better public image," Ms. Seitel said.
A Web search can put you in touch with many groups that compile research on work-life issues; the best known may be the Families and Work Institute in Manhattan (www.familiesandwork.org). It notes that at Johnson & Johnson, for example, a study found that the average number of worker absences declined over the two years after the company introduced more generous and flexible time and leave policies.
By linking an increase in paid time off to the company's bottom line, you may convince your boss of the error of his ways. But as the reins are loosened, take care not to let productivity slip. Otherwise, management may grant you a permanent vacation.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she will respond to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); WORK INSTITUTE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORK INSTITUTE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FRINGE BENEFITS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WORKING HOURS HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (90%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (89%); BENCHMARKING (78%); SICK LEAVE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FAMILY (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE BILL GATES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



441 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Wall Street Waves Off Washington

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Will President Clinton's constitutional travails derail the stock market's freight train in the weeks ahead?
It is more than a passing question, given that America's most recent experience with the Presidential impeachment process coincided with a blistering bear market in stocks. In 1974, the year Richard M. Nixon resigned, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 28 percent of its value. 
 Not to worry, market strategists say. Stocks are unlikely to plunge this time around, whatever the outcome of the impeachment process.
For the markets, "impeachment is a wholly non-event," said James Paulsen, chief investment officer of Norwest Investment Management in Minneapolis. Even if Mr. Clinton were ultimately to leave office, the markets know that Vice President Al Gore would be a virtual clone on policy. So the uncertainty that the market loves to hate is not an issue today.
Furthermore, the dark moods of the market and the economy at the time of Mr. Nixon's departure are missing now. In 1974, the nation faced rising interest rates and inflation, surging oil prices and a decline in the money supply. Today's situation is the opposite on every score.
A better comparison might be to the economy and markets during the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson in 1868, says Richard Sylla, a professor of financial history at New York University's Stern School of Business. The economy was strong, thanks to efficiencies created by the railroad boom. Interest rates were falling, wages were rising and deflation was everywhere -- trends just like today's.
President Johnson's woes began in earnest in late December 1867, but radical Republicans were unable to muster an impeachment vote in the House then. On their next try, on Feb. 24, 1868, they succeeded, by a vote of 126 to 47. Johnson's trial began in the Senate on March 13; it ended in late May, when he retained the Presidency by a single vote.
The stock market watched it all with equanimity. From the beginning of January 1868 until the beginning of June, stocks rose almost 14 percent. They ended the year up 19 percent.
Not that constitutional crises are good for stocks. They aren't. But what's bad about them is something of an intangible, Mr. Paulsen argued. It is the lost opportunity to govern -- these days, for example, to tackle the question of what to do with a Federal budget surplus of almost $100 billion.
It wouldn't take a long trial in the Senate to sap the White House of initiative, said Charles A. Gabriel Jr., senior Washington analyst for Prudential Securities in Arlington, Va. Still, he said, the risks are "hardly on the scale that should impact investors' collective psyche on a sustained basis."
If Mr. Clinton is unable to shape the debate, prospects for certain industries may brighten, Mr. Gabriel said. For example, shares of tobacco companies and health maintenance organizations, two industries on Mr. Clinton's hit list, could benefit if he is distracted. Retailers and fast-food concerns could be helped if Mr. Clinton's plan to raise the minimum wage is undone by scandal.
It's proof again that in Wall Street's eyes, there's a silver lining in even the most ominous cloud.

GRAPHIC: Graph: " 'Higher Crimes,' Higher Stocks " shows monthly closes of Cowles index, a predecessor of the Dow industrials, for 1968.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (50%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS IMPEACHMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRAINS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BONDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); BUDGETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); DEFLATION (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MONEY SUPPLY (67%); 

PERSON: NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); JOHNSON, ANDREW (1808-75); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SYLLA, RICHARD (PROF); MORGENSON, GRETCHEN BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



442 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: The World;
In Cuba, the Grinch Takes a Holiday

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO 

 BODY:
A WEEK before Thanksgiving, while Americans were busy planning turkey feasts, people in Havana were already showing off their new plastic Christmas trees.
"Lights are twinkling everywhere," said a woman reached by phone in November as she peered from a window in her fifth-floor walkup in the Centro Habana neighborhood. 
 It took the Cuban Government two more weeks to announce the obvious: Christmas had returned to the island and Cubans were, once again, free to observe the holidays.
Christmas is back in Cuba at least in part because technology has improved, the Cuban Government says. A recent editorial in Granma, Cuba's Communist Party newspaper, explained that sophisticated machines are now capable of cutting sugar cane during December, the busiest agricultural season in the tropics, so workers can now be spared for a day off.
And Christmas is back for good.
Outside of Cuba, the re-emergence of Christmas has been viewed as yet another concession to the Roman Catholic Church and, in particular, to Pope John Paul II, who visited the island for the first time last January.
But some Cuba watchers and dissidents on the island say changes had begun to occur even before the Pope announced his decision to go a year ago.
"The Pope's visit was a factor in a process, and we have yet to see where and how it will end," said Marifeli Perez-Stable, a professor of political sociology at the City University of New York who is writing a book about Cuba in the 1950's. "The visit itself was possible because the Government had already embarked on that process."
The changes evident in Cuba this year are the result of a re-evaluation of priorities that began in the early 1990's, when the Government, overwhelmed by world events and exhausted by its own economic crisis, finally recognized that it was time to switch tactics.
At the same time, there has been a shift of power and attitude that has enabled European countries, through the European Union, to become more assertive about Cuba just when the United States had begun to lose interest. An intelligence report released by the Pentagon last May concluded that Cuba was no longer a threat to American security.
All these elements have been present for a while, but it took the Pope's visit to get the world's attention.
In the last 11 months alone, the Spanish Government named an ambassador to Havana, and the King and Queen of Spain announced they will visit next spring. Italy's Foreign Minister, Lamberto Dini and the Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien visited the island. Guatemala and the Dominican Republic established full diplomatic relations with Cuba. And Cuba's President, Fidel Castro, embarked on highly publicized tours of Portugal, Jamaica, Barbados, the Dominican Republic and Grenada.
At the same time, President Clinton ordered a lifting of the ban on direct flights to Cuba and increased to $1,200 the amount of money Cubans here can send to relatives on the island each year. And the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations voted down an American-sponsored resolution condemning Cuba's human rights practices.
The Cuban Government allowed the Associated Press to open a bureau in Havana and granted exit visas to the family of the baseball player Orlando (El Duque) Hernandez.
About 100 political prisoners were released and, while other Cubans have been apprehended, the number of political prisoners is now far lower than it has been in a long time. Two years ago, there were about 1,000 political prisoners; today, there are anywhere between 300 and 400, according to Elizardo Sanchez Santa Cruz, one of the leading dissidents in Cuba.
Dissidents, who have seen their work restricted inside and outside Cuba for years, now have some freedoms. While street demonstrations continue to be quashed, dissidents who are arrested are likely to be released quickly.
Mr. Sanchez said he is now able to speak on the telephone to international human rights organizations without Government officials interrupting the calls.
He is also able to travel. In the past year, he said, he received six invitations to visit foreign countries. All were denied until last month, when the Government honored a request from France. He is now in Spain and said he will soon travel to Miami and Washington before returning to Cuba.
Excessive repression, as it was defined in the first 30 years of the Castro Government, no longer seems necessary to keep tight control of Cuban society, Mr. Sanchez said. Most people are so busy struggling to put food on the table every day that they do not have the time or the inclination to protest or rebel.
BUT the Pope's visit was successful on two other fronts: It gave hope to the people of Cuba and it greatly improved the relationship between the Roman Catholic Church and the Cuban Government. A cordial relationship is crucial because the church needs the approval of the Government to fulfill its mission of helping the needy and ministering to the faithful.
Mario Paredes, a top church official in New York who advises John Cardinal O'Connor on Cuban matters, said the benefits to the Catholic Church in Cuba have been numerous. For the first time in many years, groups of priests and nuns were allowed into the country. Also for the first time, the church has been able to distribute aid directly to the needy, without interference from the Government.
In addition, Cuba's Cardinal, Jaime Ortega, was able to speak to the nation by radio and television in March -- no small feat in a country where the Government controls all forms of communication. The Government has begun to allow the repair of old churches; before, construction permits were routinely denied. Nuns and priests are allowed to visit the ailing in Government hospitals, also a first.
Last month, a delegation of Catholic doctors from New York flew to Cuba to assess how it could lend a hand in the country's medical crisis. Earlier, the Minister of Health had visited Catholic hospitals in New York. The Italian and French churches are pouring million of dollars into Cuban universities to conduct various types of research, and Catholic professionals are now free to attend conferences abroad.
But in other ways, life remains the same in Cuba.
The Government shows no willingness to introduce democratic reforms and many people still go to bed hungry and disheartened. Just like everywhere else, those who have dollars live relatively well; those who do not must struggle every day.
Now that Christmas decorations are a permanent fixture in the country, the differences are more noticeable than ever. With Christmas tree prices that range from $7 to $60, most Cubans cannot even afford a little holiday cheer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christmas has come back to life in Cuba. Last week, Cuban women posed for a photograph with a newly purchased Christmas tree. At a Havana shop that sells wedding dresses, this year there's a Christmas tree. A Havana woman, her Christmas tree nearby, makes Che Guevara berets for tourists. (Photographs by Sven Creutzmann/Sygma for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); SPAIN (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BARBADOS (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (52%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); SPAIN (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BARBADOS (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS CHRISTMAS (95%); RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (67%); CHURCH & STATE (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); SOCIOLOGY (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); POPE (JOHN PAUL II); OJITO, MIRTA FIDEL CASTRO (58%); BILL CLINTON (54%); JEAN CHRETIEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



443 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2141 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
On-Line Traders: Older, Wiser and Richer

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
VERY so often, late at night, David L. Woodland steals away to the den of his home in Aberdeen, Wash., so that he can check stock prices on the Internet.
Mr. Woodland, a 68-year-old retired insurance salesman, delights at how, with the click of a mouse, he can tap into the facts and fortunes of Wall Street. "If I get a bright idea late at night," Mr. Woodland said, "I go into the office, fire up the computer and put a buy or sell order in." 
 In a little town near Kitty Hawk, N.C., Nick Van Lear, 70, is also logging onto the World Wide Web, checking his stock portfolio on Microsoft Investor and plotting his next market move. Mr. Van Lear, a retired corporate executive, spends a few hours a day on line.
"I gave up golf," he said. "I thought it was right for me before I retired, but then I realized it took up too much time. Now I've discovered a new hobby."
While on-line trading is popularly regarded as the province of day traders in their 20's and 30's, jumping in and out of the market to make quick profits, it is now being invaded by millions of people like Mr. Woodland and Mr. Van Lear -- seasoned investors who bring much larger accounts and more stability to this fast-growing corner of the markets.
The Microsoft Corporation says more than 20 percent of the people who use its popular Microsoft Investor software are older than 50. And E*Trade, the fast-growing on-line brokerage firm, says a quarter of its customers are over 55, up from 19 percent in June 1997.
"This is a big, big part of the market," said Joe Ricketts, chairman of Ameritrade Holdings, another large on-line brokerage firm. "I thought it would take a generation for on-line investing to permeate society, but it is happening much faster than we ever dreamed of."
Older Americans' new interest in on-line investing has been felt on Wall Street; after all, no other group of Americans has so much money tied up in the stock market, and no other group has so much time to devote to finances. So traditional brokerage firms are scrambling to hold an important pool of customers.
"Our average client's age is in the upper 50's, so that is a large part of our client base," said Ellen Breslow, director of individual retirement planning services at Salomon Smith Barney.
Indeed, on-line investors 55 and older are typically well-educated and wealthy, according to At Plan, a market research firm that tracks consumer behavior on the Web. About 66 percent have college degrees; 35 percent have postgraduate degrees; about 23 percent have incomes of $100,000 or more (compared with 18 percent for the broader adult population), and 28 percent manage an investment portfolio worth more than $250,000.
"In the last 18 months, we've seen a real surge in the older generation," said Blake Darcey, chief executive pf DLJ Direct, the fast-growing on-line brokerage unit of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, based in Jersey City. "We had people putting in $30,000, but now there are people bringing in $1 million."
THE low cost of doing business on line -- now as little as $7 a trade -- and the excitement of riding a bull market are the lures for many older investors, just as they are for the young. Plus, older investors are taking up the cyberspace totem of "empowerment." They are dismissing their full-service brokers, who offer research and investment advice but often charge more than $100 a trade, and instead are picking their own stocks, after downloading companies' annual reports and other research basics.
Overall, online trading has nearly doubled in each of the last two years and now accounts for about 10 percent of all stock trades, retail and institutional, according to Bill Burnham, an on-line analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston.
There "are incredible tools, now in the hands of an individual investor," said Carol Potts, 56, a retired crafts designer in Santa Barbara, Calif. "There's no reason for me to have a financial adviser. I'm very analytical, and I like to get involved in research."
For many such investors, the Internet is making them bolder. According to a survey this fall of 630 people over 50 by Charles Schwab & Company, many older investors say the Internet has made them more confident about their investments and more willing to trust their own judgment.
But such confidence may also cause some to gamble away their retirement nest eggs, financial experts warn.
"Frankly, for many this is like on-line gambling," said Jeremy J. Siegel, a professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "It's almost like being at the blackjack table. People can get in and out immediately, and with a profit. And they can reverse their bet at any time."
Of course, such a warning holds for investors of any age. But if stocks enter a bear market, Professor Siegel said, it could prove particularly disastrous for retirees, who are so dependent on their savings.
Other financial experts warn that older investors on line could be vulnerable to stock fraud. The Securities and Exchange Commission in late October accused 44 stock promoters of fraudulently recommending stocks on the Internet, and regulators are concerned that older Americans are particularly vulnerable to such schemes.
"Older Americans have long been a favorite target of con artists -- and the Interent is the newest high-tech way for crooks to pick investors' pockets," said Denise Voigt Crawford, former president of the North American Securities Administration Association, a band of state regulatory agencies.
The rush of seniors to on-line investing begins, of course, with desktops and Internet access. The Schwab survey found that 40 percent of people over 50 had a home computer, up from 29 percent three years ago, and that 70 percent of those had Internet access at home, up from 17 percent in 1995. Jupiter Communications, which tracks new media, says more than 7 million people 55 or older were on line this year, up from 3.8 million just two years ago. By 2002, the number is expected to grow to nearly 11 million.
"The stereotypes really don't fit," said Fran Middleton, 70, a founder of Seniornet, a San Francisco group devoted to bringing technology to people over 50. "If a large senior center opens and they say, 'We're going to have classes on computers,' they're swamped. I see this time and time again. They'd say, 'We have chairs for 25,' and 200 people would turn up."
MANY older Americans were initially drawn to the Internet because of E-mail, and it remains the single most popular application among seniors. Now, though, they are also surfing the Net to research travel, health care, family history -- and finance.
"If you're at home, you get calls all times of the day: 'Do I have a stock for you,' " said Len Bovarnick, a retired entrepreneur who now divides his time between Norwood, Mass., and West Palm Beach, Fla. "Well, I don't want these people to call. I can do it myself."
Wall Street has certainly noticed the graying of cyberspace.
DLJ Direct has created a special category for wealthy investors, most of whom are older. These customers have special privileges like access to initial public offerings and proprietary Wall Street research.
Discover Brokerage, a unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, is now offering Treasury securities on line because of demand from its older customers. "We have definitely seen an aging of our client base," said Tom O'Connell, executive vice president of Discover.
While Merrill Lynch, the nation's largest brokerage firm, has no plans to offer discount on-line trading, it is preparing to allow customers who pay an annual management fee to make a set number of trades over the Internet. And Schwab, the giant discount broker and one of the Web's earliest and most ardent advocates, has teamed up with Seniornet to train older investors how to invest on line.
THE growth of on-line investing, of course, coincides with one of the greatest bull markets in history, the explosion of mutual funds and investing clubs, and a mania for hot Internet stocks like Yahoo and Amazon.com. In a time of golden returns, everyone is a pro, and as a result, people of all ages are dismissing their brokers, managing their own money and doing their own research.
Don Gimpel, 69, and Orvis Adams, 73, are two such investors, and they are basking in the glow of a great market, casting about the Net for information about stocks. Mr. Gimpel, a retired engineer, likes to hand out a 40-page document filled with his favorite investment sites on the Web, more than 500 of them.
For instance, he logs onto the personal Web site of Edward Yardeni, the chief economist of Deutsche Bank Securities; he also tracks monthly economic trends and pulls Federal Reserve data off the Web. "There's no excuse for flying blind anymore," Mr. Gimpel said. "The data are here."
While Mr. Adams trades through National Discount Brokers, which offers on-line trading, Mr. Gimpel, like a number of older investors, uses the Web to do research and then telephones a full-service broker. Some older investors say they like the comfort of having a broker available in emergencies.
Dwight Bale, 69, a retired Boeing aircraft inspector in Auburn, Wash., is another who keeps a foothold in both investing worlds. "If something goes wrong, I can go pound my fist on a desk and say, 'I want my money back,' " he said.
Still, the danger, said Professor Siegel of the Wharton School, is that investors who use the Web can imagine that they have a great advantage over others even though millions of individuals and institutions also have access to up-to-the-minute data, on and off the Web.
"You get this herd mentality," Professor Siegel said. "But don't forget, everyone knows more. You may have an edge over the past, but you may not have an edge over everyone else. And if everyone knows more, it means it's already computed in the price."
WHAT is part of the argument of full-service brokers, who say their business is not in jeopardy. People value knowledge and sound advice, they say, even if it comes at a premium -- and that is not about to change.
Advisory services include estate planning, management of personal trusts and information on other complex topics, said Ms. Breslow of Salomon Smith Barney.
"The kind of advice we give you're not going to find on a Web site somewhere," she said.
John L. Steffens, vice chairman of Merrill Lynch, said: "We think advice is our business. And the transaction is the least important part of the business. There's nothing inherently wrong with trading on the Internet, but the concept of trading all you want is how it's being positioned."
The ads for on-line trading services, Mr. Steffens said, "are 'Let's get a hunch and bet a bunch' or 'More trading is better' -- they're positioning it as entertainment."
He added: "Many of us know it's not so simple. It's very hard to beat the S.& P.; very few pros beat the S.& P."
Regulators are also watching on-line trading carefully. Mary L. Schapiro, president of the regulatory arm of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which operates the Nasdaq market, shares a growing concern about suggestions that fast money can be made by pointing and clicking. "It's easy to push the button, but it's not easy to invest," she said. "The risk with a senior citizen is if they lose a significant part of their money, they may not be able to earn it back."
For that reason, the association, while in favor of the growth of on-line investing, is thinking about questions of "suitability" -- whether on-line investors are making trades that are suitable for their personal financial situations.
At a full-service broker, such trades, in theory at least, would be reviewed for their appropriateness. On line, they may go unchecked -- and, in fact, may be fueled by chat rooms, some of which are supported by on-line brokerage firms that say they offer no advice.
"Suitability is not an issue," said Christos M. Cotsakos, chief executive of E*Trade. "The brokerage model is predicated on the notion that the customer is dumb. But the advice you get is not necessarily right.
"We take our responsibility very seriously, and we believe people want to make their own decisions."
Investors like Mr. Woodland, the retired insurance salesman -- who also balances his checkbook with Quicken personal finance software -- are not worried.
"To me, it's the freedom to walk into my little office here and take charge of my business," he said. "I'm not in the insurance business anymore; I'm in the investing business."
Mr. Woodland logged again onto his computer. "A good half the people I know out here in this community are on the Internet," he said.
And what about his children? Did they get him started? He laughed. "I think I introduced them to the Internet," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos/Charts: "The Maturing Face of On-Line Investing"
The stereotypical electronic investor is young and aggressive, but Internet brokerage firms say growing numbers of their customers are 55 and older. These three investors are part of the trend.
 
Carol Potts, who designs glass frames, says she does not need a financial adviser. "I'm very analytical, and I like to get involved in research," she said. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)
 
Carol Potts
Age: 56
Hometown: Santa Barbara, Calif.
Computer:
Gateway 2000 G6-200 Family PC
Modem Speed: 33.6K
Favorite Investing Sites: Yahoo; Motley Fool; the Fabulous Market Babe (fabmktbabe.com)
On-line Brokers: Fidelity Brokerage; Waterhouse Securities
former Traditional Broker:
None. Used to invest exclusively in no-load mutual funds.
Why She Switched: Was overdiversified in too many mutual funds. Now has set up my own mini-mutual fund with blue-chip growth stocks.
Favorite Stocks: Berkshire Hathaway B shares; Cisco Systems; Pfizer; Lucent Technologies; Schering-Plough; American Express; Gap; Microsoft; Rambus; CMG Information Services
Frequency of Trades: After building her portfolio, she expects to rebalance it twice a year and to use hedging strategies involving options. So I guess I will be making 10 to 15 trades once every six months.

Len Bovarnick, a retired entrepreneur, says he is constantly getting calls offering investment tips. "I don't want these people to call," he said. "I can do it myself." (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)
 
Len Bovarnick
Age: 60
Hometowns: Norwood, Mass.; West Palm Beach, Fla.
Computer: Dell
Modem Speed: 56K
Favorite Investing Sites: Chicago Board Options Exchage; Yahoo Finance
On-line Broker: Brown & Co.
Traditional Brokers: Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; A.G. Edwards. (Continues to use these because they provide better access to tax-exempt bonds and initial public offerings.)
Favorite Stocks: Stocks that have hit bottom and may be turning around. Or companies that are in areas that are doing or expected to do well.
Frequency of Trades: Two to eight trades a week.

David L. Woodland likes the freedom of doing on-line trading whenever he wants. "I'm not in the insurance business anymore," he said. "I'm in the investing business." (Duncan Livingston for The New York Times)
 
David L. Woodland
Age: 68
Hometown: Aberdeen, Wash.
ComputeR: Clone PC with an Intel motherboard and Pentium processor.
Modem Speed: 28.8K
Favorite Investing Sites:
DLJ Direct; Microsoft Investor
On-line Broker: DLJ Direct
Former Traditional Broker:
Piper Jaffray
Why He Switched: Better access to trading, quicker response and execution of orders, lower commissions, more access to financial information.
Favorite Stocks: The stock that is currently performing well for me. Currently, Cisco Systems and Zila (a pharmaceutical company).
Frequency of Trades: About two a week.
 
Graph: Growing Numbers Of Seniors Are on the Internet...
Millions of people 55 and older are using the Internet.
 
...And Their Demographics Are Attractive to Brokers.
Percentage of Internet users in each age group who:
 
Have a college degree: 61% (18 to 54); 66% (55 or older)
Have a postgraduate degree: 24%; 35%
Have household income exceeding $100,000: 20%; 23%
Shop actively for stocks on line: 14%; 18%
Manage a portfolio worth at least $250,000: 8%; 28%
 
(pg. 7)(Sources: Jupiter Communications; At Plan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); AMTD (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; E-TRADE MICROSOFT CORP (83%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; E-TRADE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL ONLINE TRADING (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BONDS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID DAVID L WOODLAND (70%); VAN LEAR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



444 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 30; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: The Right Tools

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Wall Street Recruiting Bowl" (Nov. 29): As my own plunge into the working world looms closer, I've grown increasingly appreciative that I attend a college that makes internships financially feasible for students by providing a stipend. 
 For the future investment bankers in the article, this benefit may be less important. But it is crucial for students like me, whose interests lie somewhere off Wall Street and who can't afford to forgo a summer's earnings. Many internships pay little or nothing, even though they provide invaluable experience.
Last summer, with help from a program at my college, I completed two internships in Minnesota -- at a district attorney's office, as a victim-and-witness assistant, and in the Attorney General's office, drafting legislation to enable agencies to better serve domestic-violence victims.
Do I worry about finding a job? Of course. But I worry far less about succeeding in it. I've gained confidence in my ability to rise to the work world's challenges because I've tested myself, in a thoughtful, substantive way. No job fair or recruiting visit could do that.
 
HEIDI HAGHIGHI
Northampton, Mass., Dec. 11
 
The writer is a junior at Smith College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); WRITERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); LEGISLATION (53%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (52%); 

PERSON: HAGHIGHI, HEIDI MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



445 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Social Insecurity;
Poof! You Can Retire Rich.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
IMAGINE you could save the Social Security system from bankruptcy by raising every American's retirement check -- without increasing taxes.
Such is the radical cure proposed by Martin Feldstein, a chief economic adviser to President Ronald Reagan and a professor of economics at Harvard University, who made his case earlier this month at a conference sponsored by the White House. 
 Everyone agrees that the system needs to be fixed quickly, because otherwise it will begin to run out of money early in the next century as the baby-boom generation reaches retirement age. But the obvious solutions -- reducing benefits, raising taxes and postponing retirement -- are unappealing.
Another option is privatization, which calls for part of the current payroll tax to be steered into private retirement accounts that would be invested in potentially high-yield stocks and bonds. The income from these accounts could then ease the burden on the existing Social Security system. But most privatization plans scare politicians because they would expose retirees to the vagaries of the stock market.
Enter Mr. Feldstein, who proposes privatization with a clever twist. His plan calls for keeping the existing Social Security system intact. But he would also create private investment accounts for all workers, equal to 2 percent of their Social Security earnings, paid for with general Government revenues. At retirement, workers would hand over the accumulated balance in their accounts to an investment or insurance company in exchange for a lifetime annuity: a guaranteed annual income until death.
Mr. Feldstein would pay for these private accounts by tapping about a trillion dollars in projected Federal surpluses over the next decade. Also, workers would keep only 25 percent of the annual income from their annuity. The balance would be returned to the Treasury.
The plan's major selling point is that workers come out ahead no matter how poorly their investments fare. They will begin receiving checks at retirement equal to the amount paid by the current system plus 25 percent of the income from their retirement annuity. The plan would thus sidestep the criticism of other privatization plans, most of which rely on cutting benefits, raising taxes or subjecting retirees to the risk that their checks will sink below current levels.
"The plan reflects the magic of compound interest," said Senator Phil Gramm. (Mr. Gramm has proposed a similar idea.) Henry J. Aaron and Robert D. Reischauer of the Brookings Institution have called the plan "imprudent," pointing to the large financial risks and even larger political risks. Many of the House and Senate onlookers at the session came away thinking more about magic than imprudence, putting Mr. Feldstein's idea at the forefront of the privatization debate.
But do the numbers add up?
According to the nonpartisan actuaries at the Social Security Administration, the answer is sort of, kind of, maybe. In an analysis completed this month, they concluded that the plan would erase nearly all of the projected deficit using Mr. Feldstein's optimistic assumptions about the profit that workers would earn on their investment accounts and about the fees they would pay to investment funds for administering their accounts. But when the actuaries adopted more conservative assumptions -- estimates more in line with those of independent analysts -- the Feldstein plan closes about two-thirds of the projected deficit. Congress would need to close the remaining gap with tax hikes and spending cuts.
THE actuarial report appears kind to Mr. Feldstein, but their analysis also exposes the proposal's hidden pitfalls. The plan would siphon trillions of dollars from the Federal Treasury, money that could otherwise have been used to pay off the Federal debt. A larger Federal debt, in turn, requires the Government to spend more on interest payments. But Mr. Feldstein argues "that there is no chance that Congress would use those trillions to pay down the debt."
In addition, Mr. Aaron and Mr. Reischauer point out, the money spent to create private accounts is money that Congress can no longer spend on other pressing needs -- including Medicare, whose financial predicament is far more alarming.
Critics also warn that if the projected surpluses disappear, then the Government would have made reckless promises to pay pensions that it could no longer afford.
Then there is the issue of fairness. Mr. Feldstein maintains, correctly, that virtually every retiree's income would rise under his plan. But the increases would raise benefits more for high-wage workers than for low-wage workers. Critics like Mr. Aaron and Mr. Reischauer see no reason for Congress to risk increasing the deficit decades into the future in the service of a plan that primarily rewards the rich.
For many critics, the most ominous threats are political. Consider a middle-income worker 10 years after the plan takes hold. He notes that 12 percent of his earnings are dedicated to a public system that produces only a trickle at retirement. But the 2 percent of his earnings that go into his private investment account grow at a gaudy 7 percent or more a year.
The public account looks like a poor deal because, unlike the private accounts, it is saddled with paying off the debt from the early years of Social Security, when the system paid far more in benefits than it collected from workers in taxes. But economists note that if the private accounts paid their share of this debt burden, they too would look like lousy investments.
However misguided, many people will demand that more of their payroll taxes go into the high-flying private accounts. But that would whittle away at the public system -- the part of program that makes disproportionately large payments to low-wage workers.
Ultimately, the decision about revamping Social Security depends as much on politics as on economics. The country must decide how much of its income it wants to transfer to retirees. Mr. Feldstein says the elderly ought to collect more. Critics like Mr. Reischauer and Mr. Aaron think that as the number of workers shrinks relative to the number of retirees, as predicted, the work force can ill afford to spend more. Once that question is resolved, the rest is financial engineering.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Postal workers in New York setting out to deliver checks in the early days of Social Security in 1936. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ANNUITIES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BONDS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%); SPONSORSHIP (56%); 

PERSON: FELDSTEIN, MARTIN; WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M RONALD REAGAN (79%); PHIL GRAMM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



446 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Red-Ink Fears Bring Pink Slips

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Washington may be focused on only one thing, but in corporate America the concern now centers on profits. Just in time for Christmas, a host of companies have been announcing plans to cut employment in the new year.
Those cutbacks have had little effect on the unemployment rate, and are not likely to mar a truly joyful Christmas for the country's retailers. But they may be a harbinger of a weaker economy. 
 Americans feel flush for the same reason that many companies are worried. The good news for consumers has come from falling commodity prices, which over all are at a 20-year low. Oil has led the way, but everything from wheat to copper is down. For users of such things, the declines have the same economic effect as a tax cut.
But those who rely on these commodities for income -- or who rely on the people who rely on them -- are starting to suffer. There are layoffs by farm equipment makers, as well as by energy companies. Financial-service companies are worried about loans to countries, companies and individuals that are dependent on commodity sales.
Many companies have found they cannot raise prices because of competition -- some of it from companies whose usual markets in Asia and Latin America are in recession -- but the tight labor market in this country is forcing them to pay more for workers. Real wages are rising at the fastest rate in decades, while corporate profits are beginning to fall. There are signs of overcapacity in many industries, so companies are cutting back on the high rate of investment in new plants and equipment that was seen in 1996 and 1997.
Since the Asian crisis began in the summer of 1997, forecasts about imminent trouble for the American and Western European economies have been consistently wrong. But next year could be a time when problems start to be felt more widely. The price of crude oil is now $11 a barrel, less than half the nearly $27 of two years ago. To get that much economic stimulus in 1999 and 2000, oil would have to plunge to $5, which seems unlikely. Nor will strong corporate investment continue to fuel growth.
Few now fear recession, in large part because of faith in the Federal Reserve's economic omnipotence. The consensus may be right, but a recession in 1999 or 2000 would not be the first one to surprise economists.
A rule of thumb in politics is that the President gets the credit or the blame for the economy whether or not he deserves either. A corollary is that it is far better for a President to take a recession early in a term, and thus get credit for the ensuing recovery, than it is to have a downturn that is fresh in voters' minds. Jimmy Carter and George Bush seemed to have weak economies when they sought re-election, and lost. Ronald Reagan took a severe recession early in his first term, but the economy was doing well by the time he faced re-election.
Richard Nixon probably would have won in 1960 if the economic outlook had seemed brighter, and a recession in the next two years would, by that reasoning, be very bad news for Al Gore's hopes in 2000.
Unless, that is, President Clinton and Mr. Gore can find someone else to take the fall. If the impeachment battle winds through a good part of 1999 and coincides with economic and stock-market reversals, the Democrats will no doubt blame Republicans for putting the nation through such a spectacle.
There is no guarantee that would work, but it might. If so, the Republicans in Congress would have accomplished a rare feat: by trying to throw out a popular President, they would have insulated his Administration from blame for bad economic news that arrived on that President's watch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RECESSION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); METALS MARKETS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); WHEAT MARKETS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RETAILERS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (67%); ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICS (63%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (53%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD JIMMY CARTER (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



447 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Soviets Are Focus Of Inquiry By the Swiss

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Since the fall of Communism, rich Russians have frequented this country's ski slopes and luxury boutiques, welcomed as free-spending guests but otherwise attracting little notice.
But two recent events have begun to focus Swiss attention on whether this banking redoubt is becoming a prime place to stow ill-gotten cash from the former Soviet Union and a comfortable haven for rich Russian undesirables. This month authorities detained a former Ukrainian Prime Minister who entered Switzerland on a Panamanian passport, and they tried a Russian accused as a Moscow mob kingpin. 
 Geneva prosecutors tried Sergei Mikhailov, reputed boss of a major Moscow mafia family, on charges that he belonged to a criminal organization. By Swiss standards the eight-day affair was high-profile, complete with bulletproof vests in court. A former F.B.I. agent testified that Mr. Mikhailov was not the businessman he said he was, but instead associated with a mafia group that had also infiltrated the United States.
What was even more disconcerting to some was the fact that Mr. Mikhailov, 40, had settled quietly in a village outside Geneva. He was living with his wife and two young daughters, and had gone unnoticed until he was arrested at Geneva's airport. And all this in a country that keeps careful tabs on foreigners, requiring them to register and provide a valid reason for living and working here, then renew the process annually for at least five years.
While the trial was going on, the Swiss police arrested Ukraine's former Prime Minister, Pavlo Lazarenko, who was then indicted on money-laundering charges. During his leadership, from June 1996 to June 1997, he was accused of corruption. Ukrainian news organizations say that Mr. Lazarenko, 45, a well-known opposition member of Parliament, sought to withdraw money from secret bank accounts, but Geneva prosecutors then released him on nearly $3 million bail, which freed him to leave the country.
Meanwhile, despite dramatic trial testimony, Mr. Mikhailov was acquitted on grounds of insufficient evidence to convict him on three counts, including unlawfully residing in Switzerland.
Authorities had been counting on a conviction, to send Russian gangsters the message that Switzerland should not be their preferred destination. A year ago the federal police department warned that Russian organized crime was making headway here, not only by stashing cash, but also by buying legitimate businesses and property.
There are no official figures, but authorities estimate that $40 million to $50 million in Russian capital has ended up in Swiss banks. The federal police expect fresh figures and details on Russian money stashes next year, said Folco Galli, a police spokesman.
The Swiss federal prosecutor, Carla del Ponte, has expressed concern about "the penetration of our country's economy by dirty Russian money." Last month she told a local newspaper she was convinced that current inquiries into Russian mob influence "were only the tip of the iceberg." She visited Russia last spring to strengthen ties between Swiss and Russian law enforcement.
In their annual report last year, the federal police noted that it is simple to transfer money "from murky sources from the east to Switzerland." The police pointed out that the sheer number of visitors or short-term residents makes laundering money easier, noting that the number of visas granted to residents of the former Soviet Union soared to 70,000 in 1996, from 4,000 in 1978.
To guard against money laundering and support Switzerland's reputation as a safe haven for funds, a law took effect last April making it mandatory not only for banks but also for insurance companies and lawyers to report suspicious transactions. Some reported so far involved the use of dubious Russian money to set up companies in Switzerland.
Mrs. del Ponte's office also reported that suspicious money has been used in attempts to start up banks and tourist offices. Her efforts to track dirty money across borders have been hampered, she said, by neighboring countries including Germany and France, whose laws are not as strict as Switzerland's.
Russia and Ukraine have both tried to seek out illegal funds deposited in Switzerland. Last year Russia lodged requests for legal assistance on 40 cases, Mr. Galli said. Ukraine entered 20 such requests, although Mr. Lazarenko's name was not among those listed, he said.
Switzerland may have a tough time getting rid of unwelcome money and its owners. Immediately after Mr. Mikhailov was acquitted, his lawyers requested political asylum for him on grounds that he was in danger in Russia. Swiss officials have yet to rule on that request.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UKRAINE (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UKRAINE; SWITZERLAND; GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UKRAINE (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ORGANIZED CRIME; MONEY LAUNDERING; EMBEZZLEMENT ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); EMBEZZLEMENT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EVIDENCE (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); WITNESSES (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); ARRESTS (75%); INDICTMENTS (75%); SKIING (73%); ACQUITTAL (68%); 

PERSON: MIKHAILOV, SERGEI; LAZARENKO, PAVLO; OLSON, ELIZABETH SERGEI MIKHAILOV (78%); PAVLO LAZARENKO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



448 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Malaysia's Leader Rides Out Turmoil, Helped by Anger at Gore

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad appears to be serenely back in control of events in Malaysia after three months of political turmoil that included a public scolding by Vice President Al Gore.
Street demonstrations that sought to duplicate the protests that brought down Indonesia's President, Suharto, have petered out. Public enthusiasm for the protests did not seem strong enough to overcome a general political apathy and an aggressive reaction by the police. 
 The trial of former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim, whose dismissal and imprisonment in September touched off the demonstrations, has degenerated into an undignified soap opera of lurid sexual charges and cat fights among lawyers.
All this is not to say that Dr. Mahathir's troubles are over. He has embarked on an experiment of economic nationalism that many outside experts say could bring ruin to both the nation and its leader. He has created, by his treatment of Mr. Anwar, a reform backlash that still festers and could flare again. And his actions have opened the way for a variety of possible challenges, from democrats to radical Moslems to political opportunists.
Mr. Anwar is charged with five counts of sexual misconduct and five counts of corruption. Most of the corruption charges involve accusations that he tried to cover up sexual indiscretions. Last week, one of the main witnesses against him, his wife's former driver, appeared to contradict earlier testimony that Mr. Anwar had sodomized him. But there was a possibility that the driver, Azizan Abu Bakar, had misunderstood a question and Mr. Anwar's lawyer was careful to drop the matter and let the confusion remain.
This week, the high point of the trial came when the prosecution dragged a queen-sized brown mattress into court, asserting that it was used by Mr. Anwar for trysts with the wife of his former secretary and that it was stained with his semen. Prosecutors said D.N.A. tests were being conducted. Mr. Anwar, in the dock, responded by smiling, folding his hands beside his head and making a gesture of sleeping.
As the humiliation of Mr. Anwar, his protege, proceeded, Dr. Mahathir made a show of rising above the fray.
He has not commented recently on the trial and he has brushed aside Mr. Gore's remarks. During a meeting of Asian leaders in Kuala Lumpur last month, Mr. Gore offended many Malaysians by speaking bluntly about the harsh treatment of Mr. Anwar and praising protesters.
Dr. Mahathir also seemed pleased to be the target of an attack by the international financier George Soros, who suggested that the Prime Minister should step down.
Dr. Mahathir, who has ruled Malaysia for 17 years, will turn 73 this month. Until he turned against his deputy and heir apparent, Malaysia had been respected as one Asian nation where the question of succession was not an issue.
But differences over economic policy and a veiled challenge in June by supporters of Mr. Anwar for leadership of the government party appear to have caused Dr. Mahathir's angry reaction against him.
The Prime Minister said on Thursday that he was thinking of naming a replacement for Mr. Anwar before a party congress set for next year. Asked what qualities he might be looking for in a deputy, Dr. Mahathir replied with what appeared to be a joke, "An exact replica of myself, if it is possible."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (98%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (98%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); WITNESSES (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); DISMISSALS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); RIOTS (71%); RELIGION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN); IBRAHIM, ANWAR; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SOROS, GEORGE; MYDANS, SETH AL GORE (90%); GEORGE SOROS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



449 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Seek $100 Million in Aid for New England Fishermen

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
A group of Massachusetts lawmakers has asked the Federal Government for $100 million in aid to help thousands of fishermen threatened by the collapse of cod stocks in the Gulf of Maine.
In a letter sent last week, Senator Edward M. Kennedy and four other members of Congress urged the Administration to include in the Federal budget for 2000 an emergency relief package for fishermen and cities that rely on them economically. 
 Regulators voted last week to bar fishing in several spawning grounds off the coast of New England in an effort to stop the collapse of the cod supplies. Scientists announced this month that cod stocks in the Gulf of Maine, already known to be depleted, had dropped to a 30-year low.
As many as 2,500 fishermen, many of them small-boat owners who cannot travel far off-shore to the open fishing grounds, will be affected by the closures. Cities like Gloucester, Mass., which has long depended on fishing, have already been hit hard by the industry decline and Government restriction in recent years to protect fishing stocks.
"We need an 80 percent reduction in current fishing levels in order to start rebuilding the Gulf of Maine cod stock," said Patricia Fiorelli, the spokeswoman for the New England Fishery Management Council, which voted for the closures.
As dismayed as they are by the new restrictions, fishermen are already bracing for more regulation next year, which might include further limiting fishing trips or closures beyond the spawning period.
Tom Brancaleone, president of the Gloucester Fishermen's Association, has already sold his boat and gone into semi-retirement at age 56.
"We've been frustrated for 20 years, but not like now," Mr. Brancaleone said.
The lawmakers ask in the letter that the aid go toward health care for fishermen and their families, boat buybacks, career counseling for those who must stop fishing and projects to diversify the economy.
"We've got a lot of fishing people who are suffering a significant economic setback, not unlike farmers in some parts of the country," said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and one of the signers of the letter. "There we've made an effort to soften the blow. Now we have to begin to understand our responsibilities to these communities."
Representatives Barney Frank, Bill Delahunt and John F. Tierney also signed the letter to the Budget Office Director, Jack Lew.
Mr. Brancaleone, like many of the fishermen, is skeptical of the scientists' data and says that the cod stocks are not lower. He would rather see the Government lift the restrictions than offer money to buy fishermen's boats. "Fishermen are proud people and they like to make their own living," he said. "No one here wants a handout."
The Federal Government has given $80 million to the New England fishing industry since 1994, including $25 million for boat buybacks.
"At that time the clear message was, 'This is the last time,' " said Peter Shelley, director of the Marine Resources Project at the Conservation Law Foundation. "I'm fairly skeptical that a majority of Congress knows enough about the pain that a fishing closure can bring to want to help in this kind of situation. I hope I'm wrong."
But without relief now, fishermen might be tempted to fish stocks beyond the point of recovery, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GLOUCESTER FISHERMEN'S ASSOCIATION (90%); NEW ENGLAND FISHERY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND FISHERY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); MAINE; MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES; GULF OF MAINE; UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FEDERAL AID (US); FISHING, COMMERCIAL; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COD (FISH); ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES FINFISH FISHING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); FISHERIES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN KERRY (79%); TED KENNEDY (73%); JACK LEW (67%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); WILLIAM D DELAHUNT (58%); JOHN F TIERNEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



450 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 64; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Bill Allowing New York to Join Dairy Compact Is Approved

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 19

 BODY:
A measure approved by the State Legislature on Friday will bolster New York's struggling dairy industry, the nation's third largest, while keeping the price of milk in check, its supporters said.
But critics of the bill, which allows New York's 9,500 dairy farmers to join their counterparts in New England in a pricing consortium called the Northeast Interstate Dairy Compact, said consumers would be hurt. 
 Senator Richard A. Dollinger, a Rochester Democrat, called the compact a "cartel" and likened its price-setting provisions to economic practices in the former Communist world. "It's an un-American idea and we shouldn't be doing it," he said.
The Republican-led Senate approved the bill by a vote of 40 to 19 on Friday and the Democrat-dominated Assembly followed suit by a vote of 95 to 43 in an early morning session of the Legislature. Gov. George E. Pataki used the compact legislation as a bargaining chip in recent negotiations over his approval of legislation to increase legislators' pay, and has promised to sign the bill into law.
Under the bill, the limits on the wholesale and retail prices of milk would be adjusted according to fluctuations in the Consumer Price Index. Farmers would receive either the price set by the compact or the federally mandated minimum price, whichever was higher.
"Clearly, it is to the benefit of consumers to have a long-term stable price for milk," said Senator Nancy Larraine Hoffmann, a Syracuse-area Democrat who plans to become a Republican. "It is in the best interest of farmers of this state to have knowledge that consumers can afford to buy milk long into the future. And it is in the best interests of our state to have a dairy economy that is healthy."
Congress must also approve New York's participation in the dairy compact, a final step that proponents said Friday is a formality.
New York's entry could prompt other states to join the coalition. Under Federal law, states adjacent to those already in the group can join. Farmers in New Jersey are poised to enter the compact, and many in Maryland are eager to join.
Advocates for dairy farmers have sought to have New York join the compact as a way to guarantee farmers more money when wholesale prices plunge, as they did in 1997. The legislation approved Friday would tie the compact-mandated price of milk to the wholesale price of $19.26 per hundred pounds, or $1.66 per gallon, which New York farmers are now receiving. It is the highest price on record, and has rebounded considerably since 1997, when wholesale prices were at 1977 levels.
Currently, the Federal price is higher: $19.26 per hundred pounds vs. the $16.24 per hundred pounds set by the compact in the six New England states where it operates. But the Federal minimum is expected to sink below the compact-set price starting next spring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST INTERSTATE DAIRY COMPACT COMPACT AS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST INTERSTATE DAIRY COMPACT

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); MILK (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); AGRICULTURE (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); CARTELS (70%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



451 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Union Scandal Could Produce A Tougher Negotiating Stance

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Against all expectations, the corruption scandal at New York City's largest municipal union could end up transforming the union into a more formidable adversary in coming contract negotiations with the city, labor experts say.
While the scandal has in some ways hobbled District Council 37, Lee Saunders, the man sent in by the parent union to run the council, has promised to take a more aggressive negotiating stance than that adopted by Stanley Hill, who was forced out last month as executive director. 
 Mr. Hill was widely seen in the city's labor movement as having an accommodating approach toward Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in negotiating the union's five-year contract, which included a much-disliked two-year pay freeze. In contrast, Mr. Saunders has put Mr. Giuliani on notice that he will bargain hard on workfare and other issues about which Mr. Hill was largely docile.
"You're going to see a more militant union, more progressive, more aggressive," Mr. Saunders said in an interview last week.
The council's current five-year contract, which covers 120,000 workers, expires in 2000, but many union leaders predict that negotiations for a new contract will begin next year.
Mr. Saunders has talked about invigorating the union to get members more engaged -- in part to help put more pressure on the city. Under Mr. Hill, the district council's membership was largely passive, except in a few of the locals, most notably the hospital workers' local, which has repeatedly demonstrated against the Mayor's plans to privatize or close city hospitals.
"I don't think the union could be weaker than it was," said Greg Tarpinian, president of the Labor Research Association, a New York consulting group. "The reality is nobody is talking about a more conciliatory D.C. 37. If you had gone from something that was a fighting force to something that was in crisis, that would be one thing. But that's not the reality. Lee Saunders now has something to prove to the membership."
Other unions are also spoiling for a fight. Many of their leaders say they are angry that District Council 37's contract was ratified with the help of vote fraud and that the city pressured them into accepting contracts in its pattern. They say they are ready to demand extra money for their members -- if not as a Christmas bonus, then in a future contract.
On Nov. 30, the council's parent union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, took control of its affairs. The parent union's president, Gerald W. McEntee, put Mr. Saunders in charge as the Manhattan District Attorney broadened his investigation into allegations of embezzlement, kickbacks and vote fraud.
There is still no consensus about who might become the union's next executive director. Some union officials have suggested that Mr. Saunders might take the job after his trusteeship ends in a year, but Mr. Saunders says he is not interested.
Of course, if Mr. Saunders were interested -- and labor experts say it would be unwise for him to admit that now -- he could be expected to talk tough about future negotiations to gain support of the membership.
Deputy Mayor Randy Levine said the city was eager to begin talks even though more than a year remains in the current pact. "We would love to meet and start negotiations early because there are many productivity steps and other concessions that we'd like to obtain," he said. "There aren't going to be any wage increases without the continuation of serious productivity gains."
But he added: "I don't believe you're going to see any of them choosing to come to the table with us. They all think that they would do much better with the next mayor, whoever that is, than with Rudy Giuliani."
The negotiating landscape has already changed. Mr. Hill had been chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which coordinates bargaining strategy for nearly 100 municipal unions, but he has been replaced by Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers. In the past few years, she has taken a more combative stance toward the city than Mr. Hill.
Ms. Weingarten suggested that the vote fraud had made many other union leaders hungry to challenge the Mayor. "More and more unions are saying that in light of the fraud, the Mayor has a moral obligation to come up with something more for the workers," Ms. Weingarten said.
But Mr. Levine said: "Nobody's entitled to any bonus. None of these unions are going to get any advantage from that malfeasance."
In the 1960's and 70's, District Council 37, then led by Victor Gotbaum, was able to win innovations in its contracts that other municipal unions sought to copy. Some labor experts predict that Mr. McEntee will push District Council 37 and Mr. Saunders to play such a role again.
"D.C. 37 used to be a pattern setter for other municipal employees nationwide," said Carol O'Cleireacain, who at one time was the district council's chief economist. "Gerry McEntee certainly understands that a more aggressive pattern from this council is going to benefit government employees nationally."
Since Mr. Hill was forced to take an unpaid leave on Nov. 30, intrigue has swirled over who will run the council once the trusteeship ends.
The scandal has left a leadership vacuum: Mr. Hill is gone, the union's associate director, Martin Lubin, and another top official, Mark Shaplo, have resigned over their role in rigging the contract ratification vote. Charles Hughes, president of the largest local, has been expelled after a union panel found that he had embezzled more than $1.7 million. And Albert Diop, president of the second largest local, is a target of the District Attorney's investigation.
There is also general agreement that two dissenters who have pushed hardest for reform -- Ray Markey, president of a librarians' local and Mark Rosenthal, president of a motor vehicle operators' local -- will not become the next executive director.
Mr. Rosenthal rules himself out. "I'm not qualified," he said. "I'm just a worker."
Mr. Markey also denies interest, insisting that the next executive director should be Charles Ensley, a longtime Hill critic who heads a local representing 14,000 social workers. But Mr. Ensley, who has made enemies in his years battling Mr. Hill, also said he was not interested, and said he was thinking of retirement.
Union officials say Mr. Hill has told them he would like to return as executive director, but he is under investigation and some union leaders predict that he will be disqualified from returning.
In such a case, Mr. Hill's supporters may rally around James Tucciarelli, a Hill ally who heads a local representing 1,000 sewage treatment workers. Mr. Tucciarelli denies interest, and several union officials said they doubted he could be elected because of his identification with Mr. Hill. Another name often mentioned is Zachary Ramsey, who is assistant director for research and negotiation at the council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ETHICS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); COUNTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); HOSPITALS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; SAUNDERS, LEE; HILL, STANLEY RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



452 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT;
Text of the President's Address After Impeachment

 BODY:
Following is the text of President Clinton's address yesterday at the White House after the House of Representatives voted two articles of impeachment against him, as recorded by The New York Times: 

Let me begin by expressing my profound and heartfelt thanks to Congressman Gephardt and the leadership and all the members of the Democratic caucus for what they did today. I thank the few brave Republicans who withstood enormous pressure to stand with them for the plain meaning of the Constitution and for the proposition that we need to pull together, to move beyond partisanship, to get on with the business of our country.
I thank the millions upon millions of American citizens who have expressed their support and their friendship to Hillary, to me, to our family and to our Administration during these last several weeks.
The words of the members here with me and others who were a part of their endeavor in defense of our Constitution were powerful and moving, and I will never forget them.
The question is, What are we going to do now? I have accepted responsibility for what I did wrong in my personal life, and I have invited members of Congress to work with us to find a reasonable, bipartisan and proportionate response. That approach was rejected today by Republicans in the House. But I hope it will be embraced by the Senate. I hope there will be a constitutional and fair means of resolving this matter in a prompt manner.
Meanwhile, I will continue to do the work of the American people. We still, after all, have to save Social Security and Medicare for the 21st century. We have to give all our children world-class schools. We have to pass a patients' bill of rights. We have to make sure the economic turbulence around the world does not curb our economic opportunity here at home. We have to keep America the world's strongest force for peace and freedom. In short, we have a lot to do before we enter the 21st century.
And we still have to keep working to build that elusive one America I have talked so much about. For six years now I have done everything I could to bring our country together across the lines that divide us, including bringing Washington together across party lines.
Out in the country, people are pulling together. But just as America is coming together, it must look, from the country's point of view, like Washington is coming apart.
I want to echo something Mr. Gephardt said. It is something I have felt strongly all my life. We must stop the politics of personal destruction. We must get rid of the poisonous venom of excessive partisanship, obsessive animosity and uncontrolled anger. That is not what America deserves. That is not what America is about.
We are doing well now. We are a good and decent country. But we have significant challenges we have to face. In order to do it right we have to have some atmosphere of decency and civility, some presumption of good faith, some sense of proportionality and balance in bringing judgment against those who are in different parties. We have important work to do. We need a constructive debate that has all the different voices in this country heard in the halls of Congress.
I want the American people to know today that I am still committed to working with people of good faith and good will of both parties to do what's best for our country, to bring our nation together, to lift our people up, to move us all forward together. It's what I've tried to do for six years. It's what I intend to do for two more until the last hour of the last day of my term.
So with profound gratitude for the defense of the Constitution and the best in America that was raised today by the members here and those who joined them, I ask the American people to move with me, to go on from here, to rise above the rancor, to overcome the pain and division, to be a repairer of the breach -- all of us -- to make this country as one America what it can and must be for our children in the new century about to dawn.
Thank you very much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAUCUSES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); CHILDREN (68%); MEDICARE (64%); ETHICS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



453 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ;
Mission Intended To Degrade Iraq Threat

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
When President Clinton called off the air strikes that had rained hundreds of cruise missiles down on Iraq this week, he could claim justifiably that he had achieved the goal established on the first day of the attack.
"Our objectives were clear," he said tonight in announcing that he had ordered a halt to the air strikes after four days. The United States, he said, had sought "to degrade Saddam's weapons of mass destruction program" and "his capacity to attack his neighbors." 
 Again and again over the last week, Mr. Clinton and his senior aides have said the central goal of the air strikes was to "degrade" the ability of President Saddam Hussein to develop chemical and biological weapons. And that mission, he said today, "is now complete."
But "degrade" can mean many things. It is possible to degrade a target heavily. It is possible to degrade one slightly.
And as senior Administration officials acknowledge, albeit on condition of anonymity, the aftermath of the bombing campaign will be a weakened Iraq, but one still capable within months -- and possibly just weeks or days -- of threatening its neighbors with an arsenal of chemical, biological and even nuclear weapons.
United Nations weapons inspectors believe that the Iraqis are still hiding tons of nerve gas and that they are seeking to obtain uranium from a rogue nation or terrorist groups to complete as many as four nuclear warheads.
The Defense Department insisted that this week's air strikes had set back by at least one year Iraq's program to build ballistic missiles capable of delivering chemical and biological weapons. But Iraq retains a number of mobile missiles able to hit targets in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Israel.
"This is a very limited air campaign," said Adm. Stanley R. Arthur, the retired four-star admiral who oversaw all naval forces during the 1991 Persian Gulf war, which included weeks of air strikes that were several times larger than the combined strikes of this week.
"The goals here are fairly modest," he said. "All this can do is set back the Iraqis on some sort of time scale. And I would guess that you're talking about months."
Clinton Administration officials say they are drafting plans for another set of air strikes against Iraq early next year, after the end of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.
No decision has been made on whether to carry out additional American air strikes next year, but the fact that the planners are already at work suggests that the Pentagon recognizes the severe limits of the air campaign that ended today.
"If we can maintain some degree of international consensus about this, I think we'll be going back," said an Administration official who is involved in the planning.
Both Mr. Clinton and Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen made clear today that they would still like to see United Nations weapons inspections resume and that they would continue to rely on the punishing economic sanctions that have done as much as any missile to "contain" Iraq.
And Mr. Clinton again indicated that the best way to solve the problem "is for Iraq to have a different government."
In this military strike, the weapon of choice was the cruise missile. And the limitations of the missile could be seen as a metaphor for the Administration's limited goals.
While the ground-hugging missiles are more likely to hit their targets than traditional free-falling bombs, they sometimes miss, they pack less of a punch than many types of so-called dumb bombs, and they are expensive, about $1 million each.
The Pentagon has acknowledged using at least 290 of them in the air strikes this week, meaning that American taxpayers are already out a quarter of a billion dollars, just for cruise missiles.
The reliance on these weapons over traditional bombing -- in which pilots take the risk of flying close to their targets and dropping more powerful explosives -- was a virtual acknowledgment by the Administration of the modesty of its goals.
"Cruise missiles are great at the start when you want that element of surprise and pinpoint accuracy," Admiral Arthur said. "But they are not hard-target destroyers. For that, you need to get the fixed-wing assets in there, with more penetrating weapons and with some of the bigger warheads."
"But if the target is worth getting, you're have to take that risk at some point," he added. "If you're not going to take that risk, the results will always be limited."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; POISON GASES MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NAVIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); RAMADAN (63%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



454 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: China to Chinatown, via Canada;
Smuggling Arrests Expose Immigrant Pipeline on Indian Land

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: ST. REGIS MOHAWK RESERVATION, N.Y., Dec. 16

 BODY:
It was the kind of smuggling operation that, at its most efficient, resembled a well-coached relay team seamlessly passing a valuable baton.
In China, smugglers would load their cargo on airplanes bound for Toronto or Vancouver. Associates in Canada would drive the cargo in vans with tinted windows to this weathered rural Indian reservation, which straddles the border of Canada and the United States. The smugglers would hire Indians or other locals to transport the cargo by powerboat for a two-minute sprint across the cold, swirling St. Lawrence River. And waiting on the opposite shore would be another van, sometimes driven by another Indian, to take the cargo to New York City. 
 "They had it down to a science, whether crossing by daylight or by night," said Michael McLaughlin, assistant district director of investigations for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "You're talking 8, 10, 15 people a trip, three or four times a week."
Mr. McLaughlin was referring not to the smugglers, but to the cargo: Chinese nationals determined to sneak into the United States.
Over the last two years, the authorities say, smugglers funneled more than 3,600 illegal Chinese immigrants through the Indian reservation here, exploiting the region's complicated geographical and jurisdictional anatomy. For the smugglers, it was a lucrative, low-risk endeavor that could take as little as a few days, from Point A, in Fujian province in China, to Point Z, in Chinatown. For the immigrants, it was a life-altering odyssey marked by paranoia, hunger and the hope that life would somehow be better in America.
Last week, however, American and Canadian authorities announced that they had cracked the smuggling ring, arresting 35 people, including several Indians, and indicting a dozen others. And in so doing, they shed light on an operation that had become, quietly and almost invisibly, an increasingly popular route for those smuggling Chinese nationals.
At the same time, though, the crackdown has brought attention to an insular community that has long been branded as a silent partner for smugglers trafficking in the latest profitable commodity, be it cigarettes, liquor or immigrants.
The truth is that most of the 8,000 people on this rugged, wind-swept reservation do not smuggle. Many did not even know that the Chinese operation existed.
Still, many of the Indians have a tremendous capacity to forgive, saying that in a hardscrabble place where the unemployment rate is 30 percent, a person's decision to smuggle must be framed in economic, not legal or moral, terms.
"I wouldn't do it, but I understand the concept," said an unemployed social worker who was eating at the popular Bear's Den restaurant on the American side.
"It's all about survival. If you have three kids, and you have to pay the rent, and someone says that all you've got to do is 'drive here, drive there, make a few thousand dollars,' I can see why you'd do it."
Split evenly between the Akwesasne Reserve on the Canadian side and the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation on the American side, the reservation is a jurisdictional jigsaw puzzle covering about 22 square miles in two countries, two provinces (Ontario and Quebec) and one state (New York).
It is a place where the game of hide-and-seek is stacked against the seeker. There are more than a dozen islands on either side of the border, plus hundreds of coves and dozens of dirt roads leading to the St. Lawrence River. Abandoned farmhouses and shacks dot the flat terrain, which is stubbled with wheat fields and blanketed by oaks and evergreens. Street lights are dim and sparse.
As a result, smugglers have often ushered illegal immigrants -- many from India, Pakistan or Poland -- through the reservation without much difficulty. These have usually been unorganized operations, run by freelancers in an anything-goes environment in which an illegal immigrant can almost ask someone, on the spot, for a boat ride to the United States.
The Chinese smugglers, though, are different. "The Chinese are well organized," said Dick Ashlaw, patrol agent in charge of the United States Border Patrol in Massena, N.Y. "And the Chinese aliens are more terrified than the other aliens. They're petrified."
Law enforcement authorities said the Chinese smugglers would recruit young, and usually male, farmhands and laborers in Fujian, promising a prosperous life in America for an admission fee of $47,000 per person.
In Hong Kong, the smugglers would secure forged travel documents. Sometimes the Chinese would be shipped directly to Canada; other times, they would travel through another country, like Germany, Morocco or Cuba.
Once in Canada, they would be crammed into safe houses in Toronto; these were usually apartments or cheap motels. Smugglers would buy street clothes for the Chinese to help them blend in. The smugglers would also instruct the Chinese to avoid doing or saying anything that might jeopardize the operation -- or else risk harm to their families in China.
"It was like a jail," said a businessman in Chinatown who has talked to some illegal immigrants and who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "They had no freedom."
Next, the smugglers would arrange for the immigrants to be driven in a minivan from Toronto to Cornwall, an industrial city bordering the Indian reservation. The trip took about four hours.
The smugglers would usually drive to Cornwall Island on the Canadian side of the territory -- an island that can be reached before one hits the customs and immigration checkpoints on the Cornwall International Bridge. The van would then stop at the end of any number of long hidden driveways leading to the water. Quietly, quickly, the Chinese would get out of the van and into 18- to 24-foot powerboats that could squeeze in 8 to 24 people, said Cpl. Norm Turcotte of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
After a quick dash across the river, the Chinese would jump out of the boat and into another van. Then the van would speed away, usually heading east on Route 37 toward the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway.
For driving the boat, the Indians would receive about $500 or so per immigrant, and perhaps double that if they played chauffeur to New York.
Weather permitting, these were usually evening appointments. But during the winter, when the river froze over, smugglers would often take a snowmobile, hitch a trailer to the back, pack the Chinese inside and drive across the river at all hours. Again, all in a matter of minutes.
"They're not here that long," said Wesley N. Benedict, Chief of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribal Police Department. "They don't walk around on the streets, or go into restaurants."
But of course, there were also times when things would go awry, when the smugglers would be delayed by botched logistics and police sightings. If they were lucky, the Chinese would stay in bunk beds in someone's cellar, or in cheap motels in Cornwall or Massena. If not, they would be forced to stay in dilapidated farmhouses, trailers or other shelter for a few days, said Police Chief Lewis Mitchell of the Akwesasne Mohawk Police, on the Canadian side.
Those who became too cold, hungry or frustrated would wander the streets, looking for a ride to New York. But they didn't get very far.
Earlier this year, for instance, the United States Border Patrol picked up four Chinese women in their early 20's who had been abandoned by smugglers. A smuggler in New York later posted $40,000 bond to win their release, and their case is pending.
Over all, smuggling by air still remains the preferred choice, said Peter Kwong, author of "Forbidden Workers: Illegal Chinese Immigrants and American Labor" (The New Press, 1997).
But in recent years, the Akwesasne route has become an increasingly popular alternative, as evidenced by the growth in arrests of Chinese immigrants trying to cross the border. American authorities arrested 94 in 1998, up from 38 the year before -- making the Chinese the leading nationality to be smuggled, Mr. Ashlaw said.
None of this would be possible, of course, without local assistance. And while most Indians and law enforcement officers insist that only a small number participate, and that the topic of smuggling is unfairly soiling the reservation's reputation, the fact remains that the Chinese have never had any problems finding help.
In interviews, many residents of the reservation said that while they did not condone smuggling, they did not condemn the smugglers, either. Most smugglers, they say, are young and desperate, just trying to make ends meet.
Helen Jacobs, the manager of a gift shop on the American side of the reservation, knows a luckless married couple who were arrested on charges of smuggling two weeks ago. "They were just trying to keep it going, and they decided to play the game," she said softly. "It's hard, especially because there's no work right now."
At the same time, more people are supplying the police with tips about immigrant smuggling. And law enforcement officials say that such cooperation, coupled with better coordination among the various governmental agencies, contributed to the recent arrests.
Even so, law enforcement officials say that catching 1 in 10 illegal immigrants would be a coup.
On Tuesday night, two senior patrol agents, Dan Witkop and Ken Studlack, allowed two reporters to accompany them on their evening shift. It was routine at first, as the agents checked in with Mr. Benedict's Police Department, crisscrossed the reservation, peered into minivans, checked license plates.
But at 10 P.M. or so, the agents were informed of a suspicious man of Polish extraction who said that he wanted to cross the border and head for a bar in Massena. This was notable, the agents said, because the night before, the American authorities had picked up two illegal immigrants from Poland who were wandering on Route 37.
So for the next two hours, the agents, in an unmarked car, followed the man. And at first, he pulled into Bob's Motel, whose owner was recently indicted on charges of transporting an immigrant.
After a few minutes, the man left, pulled into a gas station, stopped at a bar for a few minutes but did not get out of the car, then returned to the motel. He checked in, and turned off the lights.
Did he know he was being followed? Was he supposed to pick up an illegal immigrant en route to New York? Or was he just a bad driver who got lost at every turn?
The agents never found out; they waited a few more hours and decided to call it a night.
"Well," Mr. Witkop said, "maybe next time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dick Ashlaw, a United States Border Patrol agent, looking for signs of traffic on the American bank of the St. Lawrence. Above, the eyes of Dick Ashlaw, on highway patrol in New York. In Cornwall, Ontario, Constable J. Y. Cuillerier, right, keeps a home under surveillance.(Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 49); A road sign directs Canadian drivers to report to the nearest customs inspection station, in Fort Covington. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 54)
 
Maps showing the location of the St. Regis Mohawk/Akwesasne Indian Reservation: The reservation straddles the United States-Canada border. (pg. 54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); CANADA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CANADA; NEW YORK STATE; ST REGIS MOHAWK RESERVATION (NY); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); CANADA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SMUGGLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN IMMIGRATION (93%); SMUGGLING (92%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); REFUGEES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



455 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE MAVERICKS;
10 in House Who Broke Party Ranks on the Vote

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
These are the 10 lawmakers, 5 Republicans and 5 Democrats, who broke party ranks on the crucial first vote on impeachment to charge President Clinton with lying to a Federal grand jury: 

Republicans
 
CHRISTOPHER SHAYS -- of Connecticut, 53. Elected in August 1987 in a special election. For much of his 11 years in Congress, he has been a champion of reform and moderate causes, challenging the conservative members of his party on issues from abortion to gun control to campaign finance reform. But his conservative credentials are never in doubt -- remaining a loyalist to Speaker Newt Gingrich and supporting fiscally conservative policies.
 
CONSTANCE A. MORELLA -- of Maryland, 67. Elected in 1986. A liberal Republican on issues like gun control and abortion, her conservative thinking is most evident on economic issues. She faced a well-financed Democratic challenger this fall who accused her of moving to the right. She won re-election with 60 percent of the vote.
 
PETER T. KING -- of New York, 54. Elected in 1992. He shuns the label "moderate." He is proud to have received a 100 percent rating from the Christian Coalition and is unabashed about opposing abortion, affirmative action, bilingual education, gun control and anything that smells like a "good government" proposal.
 
AMO HOUGHTON -- of New York, 72. Elected in 1986. A leading moderate Republican who has a reputation as one of the nicest members of Congress. He is one of the creators of a weekend-long retreat to promote civility in the House. He has been a leading critic of the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr's investigation of President Clinton but supported the opening of the impeachment inquiry by the House.
 
MARK SOUDER -- of Indiana, 48. Elected in 1994. Although he voted against impeaching the President for perjury, he voted in favor of the third article approved by the House today, which charges the President with obstruction of justice. He has been a voice for conservative issues in the House and comes from a heavily Republican district..
 
Democrats
 
GENE TAYLOR -- of Mississippi, 45. Elected in October 1989 in a special election. As a Southern white Democrat, he is part of a dwindling political breed in Congress. He has a fiscally conservative voting record and has distanced himself as far as possible from Washington Democrats who are disdained in southern Mississippi. In 1996 he announced he would not support the re-election of President Clinton.
 
PAUL MCHALE -- of Pennsylvania, 48. Elected in 1992, he did not run for re-election this year. He supported President Clinton enthusiastically in both the 1992 and 1996 elections and voted for Mr. Clinton's positions about 75 percent of the time. In August he became the first House Democrat to call on Mr. Clinton to resign. In November he offered a censure resolution as an alternative to impeachment.
 
RALPH M. HALL -- of Texas, 75. Elected in 1980. Throughout his career in Congress he has been a staunchly conservative Democrat who regularly sides with the Republicans. He supported substantial portions of the Republican's Contract of America in 1995.
 
CHARLES W. STENHOLM -- of Texas, 60. Elected in 1978. The 10-term Democrat has emphasized conservative issues and political independence in his increasingly Republican district. He often bucks his own party on such issues as Federal spending and abortion rights.
 
VIRGIL H. GOODE JR. -- of Virginia, 52. Elected in 1996. First won election by campaigning as an old-fashioned conservative on such issues as guns, abortion and tobacco while appealing to more liberal constituents by his support for civil rights and Federal support for education. Like the other Democrats voting in favor of impeachment, he was one of the 31 Democrats who voted to open the impeachment inquiry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ;BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) CONSERVATISM (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GUN CONTROL (76%); ETHICS (76%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (70%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); APPROVALS (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); MORELLA, CONSTANCE (REPR); KING, PETER T (REPR); HOUGHTON, AMO (REPR); SOUDER, MARK (REPR); TAYLOR, GENE (REPR); MCHALE, PAUL (REPR); HALL, RALPH (REPR); STENHOLM, CHARLES W (REPR); GOODE, VIRGIL (REPR); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (94%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (88%); RALPH M HALL (78%); PETER T KING (73%); GENE TAYLOR (58%); MARK E SOUDER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); VIRGIL H GOODE JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



456 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS: Purity vs. Reality;
Scandal Points Out Pressure in Quest for the Olympics

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 19

 BODY:
When Salt Lake City lost by only four votes to Nagano, Japan, to play host to the 1998 Winter Olympics, it became a heavy favorite to win the 2002 Winter Games.
Salt Lake City's advantages were plentiful: it would be the largest city to be host of a Winter Games. Many of its sports facilities were already under construction. The airport was 15 minutes from downtown, and major highways would carry spectators to every event in no more than an hour. 
 Essentially, all the city had to do was protect a big lead.
It did, winning in a landslide, but the manner of Salt Lake City's victory has become the focus of an investigation into charges of bribery and corruption that have further damaged the credibility of an Olympic movement already staggered this year by an unprecedented series of doping scandals.
The Salt Lake City scandal has provided the most unsparing glimpse yet of the tectonic grinding between purist ideals of the Olympics and the economic reality that the Winter and Summer Games are billion-dollar businesses. The 2002 Winter Games have an operating budget of $1.45 billion and are expected to have an economic impact of $2.8 billion for the city.
The process for obtaining an Olympics has been revealed in great, troubling detail by the scandal. Attracting the Games involves far more than simply building stadiums, hotels and highways. It also involves the providing of lavish gifts and favors to members of the International Olympic Committee and their relatives, and the hiring of consultants to make introductions and assert influence with I.O.C. members.
This process, according to Olympic officials, has frequently extended beyond expensive wining and dining into a murky area where the lines are blurred between proper hospitality and improper inducements.
"What was the saying in Atlanta? 'It's a dirty business, I hope it all washes out after it's over,' " said John Ruger, a member of the Salt Lake Olympic organizing committee's board of trustees and a prominent member of the United States Olympic Committee. "The process needs to be cleaned up, no question."
Voting on cities to play host to the Olympics is the most important function for many of the I.O.C.'s 115 members. When they came to visit Salt Lake City before the 1995 vote that determined the host city for the 2002 Winter Games, Salt Lake City offered such gifts as shotguns and skis, hunting trips, free medical care and college scholarships.
Tom Welch, who was president of the bid committee that won the 2002 Winter Games for Salt Lake City, said this courting of I.O.C. members was part of a necessary, long-established ritual to build trust and friendship with people of varying cultures and backgrounds. Salt Lake City spent $14 million in its attempts to win the 1998 and 2002 Winter Games.
"I'm not uncomfortable with the way we handled it," Welch said. "The process works."
Marc Hodler of Switzerland, the second-most senior member of the I.O.C., has another word for Salt Lake City's actions: bribery.
Last weekend, Hodler made incendiary charges that vote-buying had influenced the selection of Atlanta, Nagano and Salt Lake City as Olympic cities, as well as Sydney, Australia, which will be host to the 2000 Summer Games. Salt Lake City officials have acknowledged spending about $400,000 on scholarships and athletic training for 13 people, including six relatives of I.O.C. members, most from Africa.
They have classified the spending as humanitarian aid, not bribery.
Hodler has offered only hearsay, not proof, of his claims of vote-buying, according to Dick Pound, the I.O.C. member from Montreal charged with investigating the Salt Lake City scandal.
In an interview Friday, Pound said that Hodler had produced no direct evidence to support his contention that Salt Lake City was the victim of extortion by so-called agents who offer to deliver blocs of votes for up to $5 million and that as many as 25 I.O.C. members sold their votes in various Olympic-city elections.
"He offered no names, nothing, only what he heard other people say," Pound said of Hodler, who could not be reached for comment.
Still, many in Salt Lake City have expressed shock and anger upon learning that such extravagant -- some say inappropriate -- services must be performed to attract what is billed as the world's most unsullied form of sport.
"The Olympics have become a business," said Ken Bullock, a populist member of the Salt Lake City organizing committee, who has often said that money spent on limousines would be much better spent on youth programs. "They're not about athletes and people. It's an international business."
No city was more eager to attract the Olympics than Salt Lake City. It had been seeking the Winter Games since 1966 as the most persuasive way to demonstrate that great skiing existed in the Rockies in places other than Colorado.
Because the European vote for 2002 would most likely be divided between Sion, Switzerland, and Ostersund, Sweden, Salt Lake City officials appear to have settled on a strategy of shoring up I.O.C. votes in Africa and South America. At that time, Africa accounted for 17 of the I.O.C.'s approximately 110 votes.
Favors to African officials included providing free treatment for hepatitis to Jean-Claude Ganga, an influential I.O.C. member from Congo Republic, according to The Salt Lake Tribune. Richard Anderson, a Salt Lake City plastic surgeon, told The Associated Press that Welch had cajoled him into performing free cosmetic eye surgery for another unnamed I.O.C. member. Welch did not return a call seeking comment.
The Tribune reported today that the bid committee spent nearly $10,000 on shotguns and rifles as gifts for people associated with the Olympics.
"It's easy to sensationalize this and see it in black and white, but it's more blurred than that," Charlie Battle, who served as head of international relations for the Atlanta Olympic organizing committee, said of providing gifts and favors to I.O.C. members.
"There's great pressure to be accommodating. I'm not talking about scholarships or envelopes of money, I'm talking about being nice. Sometimes, with hospitality, you feel like you're doing more than is necessary. But you feel like you have to be as nice as you can. It's a competitive situation, and you want to keep hanging in there."
Under these circumstances, a kind of ethical vertigo can occur, Battle said.
"Are you doing this for humanitarian reasons or are you doing it to sway votes?" Battle said. "It becomes difficult."
Welch said that no one had tried to extort him and that he did not deal with agents who promised they could deliver votes.
However, the Salt Lake City bid committee paid an Egyptian-born man living in Canada, Mahmoud El-Farnawani, $58,000 for consulting services in 1994. He told The Toronto Sun in 1995 that he had "assured" the Arab vote to Salt Lake City officials.
"We have to take this opportunity to clean house and recapture the ground we hope to occupy," Pound said. "We have to show that we set a standard of conduct that is high."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Welch, bid committee head: "I'm not uncomfortable with the way we handled it." The official flag is idealistic, but the integrity of the 2002 Winter Olympics is in question. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (97%); CHUBU JAPAN (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (97%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (54%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (54%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); UTAH, USA (97%); CHUBU JAPAN (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (97%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WINTER OLYMPICS (94%); OLYMPICS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SKIING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CORRUPTION (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); BUDGETS (72%); BRIBERY (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: MARC HODLER (74%); DICK POUND (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



457 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: ILLINOIS;
In Conservative Town, Mostly Somber Tones

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: WHEATON, Ill. Dec. 19

 BODY:
To many of the staunch conservatives who have disdained Bill Clinton from the start, the impeachment of the President brought unwavering approval but little cheering.
"It's the right thing, but I feel very sad today," said Wyatt Waterman, 42, the assistant manager of a bookstore. "It's not good for the country, and it's not good for us as a nation to watch. But there was no alternative. He committed perjury." 
 In this sharply conservative western suburb of Chicago, the home of Wheaton College, a school that hews to the literal words of the Bible, the vote to put Mr. Clinton on trial in the Senate was greeted with quiet praise, especially for the district's Representative, Henry J. Hyde.
In a barbershop on Front Street, Doug Wicks, a 39-year-old sales manager, said, "Clinton's getting what he deserved," but he added, "I hate to see it -- this man's got a family of his own, and loyal supporters."
To be sure, not everyone was feeling sorry for Mr. Clinton.
"He's a liar, an adulterer, a bribe-taker," said Joe Maurer, 67. "The man is a public disgrace. Not only should he be out of office, he ought to be behind bars."
But most often, people in Wheaton shook their heads and spoke in somber tones. Most said Congress simply had no choice.
To Andy Pilipzcuk, 26, voting against impeachment would have lowered the standard of behavior expected of public officials. "We can't let the next generation think this kind of behavior is acceptable," he said.
Virtually no one here relishes a trial in the Senate. All of Mr. Clinton's critics, and even a defender or two, called on the President to step down.
"I just wish he'd resign," said Nancy Lewis, 46, as she shopped for Christmas presents at the college bookstore, where a book featured in the window was titled, "Tell Me the Truth," about the importance of fidelity and family values.
To Ms. Lewis, punishment was only just for a President who, in her view, had abused his power, especially when it came to women. "I'm not a women's libber at all, but he's taken advantage of women," she said.
Mr. Wicks, who also called on the President to resign, said he mostly feared that a long trial in the Senate could "ruin the economy, the stock market, the holidays."
Even in a place like Wheaton, however, there were people who registered objection to the impeachment of Mr. Clinton over actions tied to a sexual affair, and saw hypocrisy in many of the denunciations.
"Let God judge," said Sunny Hardwick, fairly trembling with anger, as she clipped the hair of a man who sharply criticized the President. Ms. Hardwick said that, as a devout Christian, she was spending her time "praying for the President" instead of throwing stones.
Ruth Volle, too, said she abhorred the actions by Congress, and the invasions into his private life. "From the beginning, he should have just said, 'It's none of your business.' "
But the overwhelming majority of people here said they welcomed the impeachment, even if they found little joy in it.
"We have to uphold the Constitution," said Scott Mathias, 40. "I'm pleased by the impeachment, but saddened. I just don't think there was any choice here."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WHEATON COLLEGE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; WHEATON (ILL); UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) CONSERVATISM (92%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); BOOKSTORES (77%); FAMILY (72%); RELIGION (70%); BRIBERY (66%); CHRISTMAS (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOHNSON, DIRK; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



458 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE REACTION;
Americans Benumbed By the Crisis In the Capital

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Many Americans voiced anger, disgust and frustration with the proceedings. Some radiated grim satisfaction. But as President Clinton's long, painful journey from scandal to impeachment ended yesterday, most Americans were just benumbed, inoculated by the seemingly endless months of lies, legalisms and disillusionment with politics, Washington-style.
As the House cast the fateful votes to send perjury and other charges against Mr. Clinton to the Senate for trial, countless Americans paid scant attention, opting for football on television or Christmas shopping, a reflection of polls that had shown that the people overwhelmingly opposed an impeachment that was a forgone conclusion and were sick of the whole mess. 
 Still, there was great drama in the day -- the bombs falling in Iraq, the stunning announcement that Robert L. Livingston would not serve as Speaker and would resign from the House after admitting adulterous affairs, and the realization by many that the impeachment of a President had happened only once before, 130 years ago.
And around the nation, Americans paused in homes, restaurants and shopping malls decked out for Christmas to watch the televised spectacle. Some endorsed the Republican-dominated vote to impeach, insisting that even a President was not above the law, and that impeachment was necessary for moral accountability. Others called on the President to resign and spare the nation months of agony.
But in interviews in New York, Seattle, Boston, Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami, Houston and other cities, most people, while deploring Mr. Clinton's behavior in trying to cover up his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky, said they opposed impeachment, calling it excessive punishment and perhaps harmful to the nation.
"It strikes me as dangerous," Greg Noonan, a law student at Harvard, said as the impeachment vote flashed on a television screen at the Three Aces restaurant in Cambridge, Mass. "And most infuriatingly of all, it strikes me as completely ignoring the will of the American people."
In Seattle, several people working out at the Olympic Athletic Club shook their heads in disgust as the vote unfolded on overhead screens. "I'm very, very saddened and I'm very, very angry," said Ross Carey, a doctor, who said the Republicans had "put politics ahead of what is best for the country."
Bob and Carol Wentink, a Chicago couple, said impeachment seemed excessive for what the President did. "It's a shame," Mr. Wentink, 54, an electronics designer, said. "I think there's too much interest in private lives. While he did wrong, I don't think he deserves to be impeached." His wife, a retired teacher, added: "I think it's a huge mistake. It's going to affect the way people around the world look at us."
Evan Ackerman, 28, a financial consultant in Miami, also called impeachment inappropriate. "But that doesn't necessarily mean I like Clinton," he added. "Even if he is a sleazebag, they should wait until he leaves office. He should be scolded, sued for millions of dollars, reprimanded."
Greater forgiveness was to be found at the Hair Place, a beauty salon in the New York City borough of Queens. "So he lied under oath," said Diane Barnett, 41, an office manager who lives in Roosevelt, L.I. "That's a petty issue. Everybody lies. It's like his wife said: there are so many other issues, like hunger and health care, to be concerned about."
Paul Trageser, 62, a silversmith from Cincinnati, said the impeachment had been motivated by pure politics. "It's partisan, it's unfair, it's a witch hunt," he said in Los Angeles, where he was visiting. "I'm sick of what the Republicans have done over the past few years -- so squeaky clean and hypocritical. It's sad and bizarre."
Around the country, however, there were many who approved of impeachment.
"Hooray," yelled Ann Jewel, who heard the news as she wheeled a cart full of grocery bags in Chicago.
A 57-year-old receptionist for an insurance company and the mother of five children, Ms. Jewel said she had voted twice for President Clinton, but had come to believe that he betrayed the country and was not sincere in his many apologies. "He put his hand on the Bible and lied," she said. "A lot of things can be forgiven, but to be forgiven a person has to be sorry. He cannot be forgiven just because he is caught."
In Houston, Monika Miura, 48, a legal librarian, said Mr. Clinton, like any citizen, had to be called to account for lying under oath. "If anyone needs to be above reproach and needs to be an honorable individual, it should be the President," she said. "This is not an issue about sex. This is an issue about honor and truthfulness."
Gertrude Jackson, 75, a retired Chicago department store cashier, also said she favored impeachment, and that it was not about sex. "Everybody knew when he was elected that he was a woman-chaser," she said. "He just got too big for his britches. He broke the law."
In Denver, John Harless, a 53-year-old retired banker, said Mr. Clinton had no one to blame but himself. "It's a somber moment, and I'm not happy about it," Mr. Harless said. "He did some good things. It's too bad he recklessly endangered the office of the President. He ruined his own Presidency."
At the Market coffee shop in Denver, Cherish Finn spoke of Mr. Clinton in the past tense, as if he were already gone, though the outcome of his trial in the Senate remains in doubt.
"I think he was a good leader," Ms. Finn said. "This has been a good time in our country. We had a great four years with him, and he had the potential to do something with this country. He should have been honest. This society is based on forgiveness, and he made a mockery of the system by lying."
Hardly anyone defended Mr. Clinton, but many expressed concern over the possible effects of his impeachment -- on the economy, on the stability of government, on the conduct of foreign affairs and on the future of the nation.
"This is dog eat dog now -- not 'of the people, for the people,' " said Vic Lysell, 50, a paint salesman who had stopped for breakfast at Johnny's diner in Seattle's waterfront Ballard neighborhood. "This is not our system at work, it's the G.O.P. at work. It's crazy."
Ed Wetzel, sitting nearby, needed a jolt of coffee to digest the news. He said he opposed impeachment, but added that now that it was a fact, Mr. Clinton should "strongly consider" resignation. "This thing would be the focus of the whole next year," he said. "The entire country would suffer for it."
The owner of Johnny's, John Khalil, disagreed. Referring to Republicans, he said: "They are pushing hard to destroy this man any way they can, and it's wrong. Now the President needs to battle back."
For many Americans, impeachment was just another occasion to condemn Mr. Clinton. "What the President did was shameful, and I think he has to pay the price," said Al Habib, 54, a Brooklyn pharmacist. "He's a very bad role model for the younger generation. The right thing to do is remove him from office."
But others denounced the forces against him. "The whole thing stinks," said Susan Macina, 35, who lives in Brooklyn and Hollywood, Fla. "What the President did was terrible, but not impeachable. It's an offense in his personal life. We elected him twice without knowing about his affairs. I think there are going to be mass protests in this country."
But there was little sign of protest yesterday. Indeed, tours of shops, cafes and other public places in a half-dozen cities found many people ignoring the telecast from Capitol Hill. Kevin James, 29, working at a juice bar in Seattle, said he was more concerned with Christmas shopping and finding a new apartment.
Cindy Carlson, a 45-year-old college English professor in Denver, called the impeachment historic, but not comparable to the Watergate proceedings that led to the resignation of President Nixon. "I cried during Watergate," she said. "I felt the American way of life was threatened. Now I think it's different. The country will survive this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a coffee shop in Denver yesterday, Cherish Finn and David Meyer, left, talked about the President. And at a coffee shop in Los Angeles, Paul Trageser, 62, watched the debate. But many Americans turned instead to football on television or Christmas shopping. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%); RETAILERS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



459 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: NEWS ANALYSIS;
What Next? Don't Guess

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
The only thing certain now is uncertainty.
The smart money shouts that President Clinton will never resign, and he vows to serve "until the last hour of the last day" of his second term. The smart money argues that the Senate will never muster the 67 votes needed to remove the wounded President from office, which would require the defection of 12 Democrats if all the Republicans stand against him. The smart money insists that someone will cut a deal soon to end all this. 
 Maybe so. But the smarter money whispers, "Remember."
Remember that everyone in Washington, including Representative Henry J. Hyde, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said the House would never, ever, vote impeachment along partisan lines. Wrong. Remember that all the pundits predicted Democratic losses in the mid-term elections, and when the opposite happened, they said impeachment was dead. Twice wrong.
And remember that in the new year the nation will travel down a road it has never traveled before. One other President, Andrew Johnson of Tennessee, has been tried by the Senate, of course. But that happened in a different country -- one with only 37 states, with primitive communications, with a simple economy based on agriculture, with minimal commitments abroad.
In the toxic politics of century's end in Washington, the inconceivable has become the commonplace.
The wholly unanticipated announcement this morning by Representative Robert L. Livingston, Republican of Louisiana, that he would not serve as Speaker and would resign from Congress, after his equally unanticipated disclosure on Thursday night of several extramarital affairs, only deepened the capital's profound sense of insecurity.
The deadly sweep of the scythe of neo-Puritanism appears unstoppable, at least for the moment, and Mr. Livingston's forthcoming resignation will increase the pressure on the President to do likewise.
"You've set before us an example," the leader of House Republican majority, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, told Mr. Livingston today. "The example is that principle comes before power."
The Democrats made the opposite point, arguing that the Livingston case showed how wrong it was to savage people for personal failings.
One transcendentally important thing remains the same: Although surrounded by judicial trappings and presided over by the Chief Justice, the President's trial will be a political process, with power residing in the hands of politicians. In addition to narrow legal issues of guilt or innocence, the senators can weigh considerations of party, the nation's future, their own political well-being and anything else they care to weigh in reaching a verdict.
The longer they take, the more numerous the appeals for resignation are likely to be. Even before today's epochal roll-calls, 4 of 10 Americans interviewed in the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll said they thought that the President should step down if he was indicted even though a large majority voiced disapproval of the impeachment proceedings.
What lies behind that seeming contradiction is the fear that Mr. Clinton, and the country with him, would be incapacitated. No one took Andrew Johnson very seriously after he escaped conviction by a single vote.
But Mr. Clinton, a man of powerful will whose whole life has been a series of comebacks, has already embarked on an effort to show that he can do the nation's business. Richard M. Nixon clawed his way back to respectability after leaving the White House; Mr. Clinton intends to re-establish his authority while still in office. He has one great advantage: two-thirds of the American public continues to voice its approval of his political stewardship, whatever it thinks of him as a man.
For those Americans and for Congress, too, Mr. Clinton, puffy-eyed, set out an agenda late this afternoon in the Rose Garden. He talked of Social Security reform, but also of negotiating "a prompt solution" that would end the impeachment crisis in "a constitutional and fair manner."
The President will press hard, despite his much-reduced leverage, for a deal on censure. Indeed, in as fine a piece of political irony as one could ask for, he has already sought to enlist former Senator Bob Dole, the Republican he defeated in 1996, as an emissary to the Senate majority. The numbers are not unpromising: with the help of 6 Republicans, the 45 Democrats could end the trial at any time and pass a censure resolution that the House would surely take up.
There are enough Republican moderates and sometime party-buckers to make that a plausible target. But the Republican Senate leader, Trent Lott, who has made his unwillingness to take the President's word evident in recent days, is determined to fight such an arrangement.
It is clear that Mr. Clinton's reputation has been stained forever, no matter what the Senate does. The spot will not out. History will remember this man who so coveted a glowing legacy not as an impresario of economic growth, not as the Moses who pointed the way to the 21st century, but as the second President ever to be impeached, if not as the first to be ousted.
That harsh word, "impeachment," will cling to his name as surely as "Teapot Dome" clings to Harding's.
But he is not alone in having suffered grievous injury in the political avalanche that was shaken loose by the disclosure of Mr. Clinton's sexual relationship with a former White House intern, Monica S. Lewinsky.
The Republicans' public support has shriveled to 40 percent in the new Times/CBS News poll, its lowest level in 14 years, and it could go lower once the fact of impeachment sinks in. Journalists are seen by many as jackals, indifferent to whatever personal suffering or national angst they may cause as long as they get the story, and none too concerned about accuracy.
In fact, the whole political culture of the 1990's, with its criminalization of political conduct and its seeming indifference to important national and international issues, has fallen into disrepute with Americans.
The last week seemed to crystallize the long-term decline in political civility. Republicans called the President a liar, even as he was committing American pilots to the skies over Iraq, and Democrats accused their Capitol Hill rivals of conducting a political lynching or coup d'etat.
Bipartisanship may have been the biggest victim of all. Party lines on today's critical first roll-call held as firm as leg irons. Almost all of the Republicans who voted against that article did so not exclusively on legal principle but at least partly because of special political circumstances -- the Democratic majority in Representative Constance A. Morella's district in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, for example, and the gratitude of Representative Peter T. King of New York for Mr. Clinton's peacemaking in Ireland.
On later ballots, the polarization was less marked, and two of the four articles voted by the Judiciary Committee were defeated, suggesting that some careful consideration of legal issues took place.
It is hard to see who has emerged from the long ordeal with reputation enhanced, except perhaps Hillary Rodham Clinton, ever staunch in the face of deception.
If some of the dire predictions uttered by House Democrats recently are to be taken at face value, the nation is entering upon an Era of Bad Feelings, the polar opposite of a second Era of Good Feelings, similar to that of the 1820's, that Mr. Clinton had hoped to preside over.
Representative Tom Sawyer of Ohio, a Democrat, compared Mr. Clinton on Friday to Sir Thomas More, executed for treason in 1535 because of his religious beliefs. Mr. Sawyer quoted More's words as an admonition for today: "What you have hunted me for is not my actions but for the thoughts of my heart. It is a long road you have opened. God help the statesmen who walk your road."
But with all the loose talk about permanent damage to this institution or that, remember: Things change with startling speed in modern American politics, and the institutions of American government have proved extraordinarily resilient. Nixon, it was almost universally agreed in 1974, had weakened the American Presidency for many decades to come. Nobody said that after 8 years under Ronald Reagan, only 15 years later.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Democratic members of the House of Representatives walking out of the Capitol yesterday to protest the defeat of a last-ditch bid for censure. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) ROBERT L SIGMON (54%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (66%); VERDICTS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (61%); INDICTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR; LIVINGSTON, ROBERT L (REPR); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



460 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Truth, Fiction and Human Rights

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The controversy over "I, Rigoberta Menchu," cannot be fully understood without an appreciation of how its literary-polemical form, the testimonial, emerged in the 1970's and 1980's (front page, Dec. 15).
The testimonial is an epistolary form that grew out of the relationship between popular movements on the isthmus and solidarity movements in the United States and Western Europe. The goal of the testimonial was to convey sociological facts to a Northern audience through an exemplary autobiographical story -- and to thereby solicit moral, political and economic support for local struggles. 
Ms. Menchu seems to have told her story in a manner that force-fits her experiences into the social analysis she wished to dramatize. But narrative devices like the shading of events that might be acceptable in an ethnographic work or historical novel undercut the authority of a text that purports to tell the unvarnished truth.
 
ROGER LANCASTER
Fairfax, Va., Dec. 17, 1998
 
The writer is an associate professor of anthropology, George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

TITLE: I, RIGOBERTA MENCHU (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES; ETHICS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; INDIANS, AMERICAN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); HISTORY (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: LANCASTER, ROGER; MENCHU, RIGOBERTA RIGOBERTA MENCHU (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



461 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORTS: NEW YORK ON LINE;
Homeless Portray Their World

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY 

 BODY:
Give a man a fish, the old proverb goes, and he'll eat for a day. Give a homeless man a camera, Michael Rennick figured, and he will document a day on the cold, hard streets. On a Web site called Vagrant Gaze, Mr. Rennick has posted the photography of four homeless men in New York, along with text from his interviews with them.
 Mr. Rennick, a doctoral student in cultural studies at Teachers College of Columbia University, said he had found the four men panhandling in various Manhattan neighborhoods. He gave each a disposable camera, asking them to shoot images of their world and return a day later. He then interviewed and photographed the men, paying each $20. 
 "One day I was wondering what happens in subway stations late at night," Mr. Rennick said. "For a second and a half, I thought of giving cameras to the homeless to record everything. After realizing that was a stupid idea, I thought it would be more interesting to ask them to shoot their own worlds."
 He conceded that viewing the world of the homeless through a Web site "is obviously removed from face-to-face contact." Yet, he said, "Many people say it's an eye-opener to find the person behind the face that they pass by every day."

WHAT YOU SEE -- Four sets of color photographs, some banal, some hauntingly beautiful, depicting the life of the homeless with utterly unsentimental candor. It's an outdoor world of lonely streetscapes, stone facades, doorways, stairwells and remote park benches.
 The interviews bring the pictures to startling life. Michael Hartman says he "went crazy in the service -- special operations, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam." He scraped together money to buy medicine for his sick cat, Mookie, he says, and uses military training to keep warm at night. And he says he stays away from his family to spare them his "nightmares."
 Charles Wilson used to have a wife, job and normal life. Now he's broke and on the street, unable to ever see his five children. "At Columbia," he says, "they have a grate where the heat comes up and it blows like a bubble. It gets so hot you have to take your coat off." Another man, Kevin King, whom Mr. Rennick occasionally sees near Teachers College, says he became mentally ill, and then homeless, after a fire killed his daughter.
 Mr. Rennick said he would update the site soon with photos from other homeless New Yorkers, displaying them in slide-show fashion with their own recorded voices as well as text to narrate the images. Though he'd like to expand the site to include homeless people around the world, he said: "I'm a grad student with two jobs. It's impossible."
 
LINKS -- To advocacy group sites like that of the National Coalition for the Homeless and the Homeless Homepage, and to other photo essays, including "Waste of Space," an on-line exhibition by unemployed artists.
 
WHAT YOU GET -- A poignant, brutally honest and starkly personal, if antiseptic, glimpse into the world of the homeless. DAVID KIRBY
 
VAGRANT GAZE
http://www.perfekt.net/ vagrant/homeless.htm

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (68%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; PHOTOGRAPHY HOMELESSNESS (93%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); WEB SITES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PANHANDLING (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (54%); 

PERSON: KIRBY, DAVID MICHAEL RENNICK (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



462 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Panics Always Start In Left Field

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THINK back to late summer and early fall. Financial panic seemed the order of the day. On top of the Asian troubles came the Russian meltdown, and as investors fled these and other developing regions, lending dried up or pulled back everywhere. Even the United States seemed in danger of tumbling into recession.
All that is history now. Or is it? 
 The American economy is perking along energetically, shrugging off the Iraqi bombing and the impeachment proceedings. The year-end forecasts from many quarters are for continued good times, or at least not frightening times. East Asia and Russia are unlikely to produce new episodes of financial panic. How can they? The big investors there have either yanked their money or lost it. There is no longer the wherewithal in these regions for another round of capital flight, another round of plunging currencies and another round of economic collapse.
But the financial system that gave rise to the East Asian and Russian crises is still in place, and trouble could erupt elsewhere -- suddenly, unexpectedly -- setting off a fresh round of financial panic, with its aftermath of painful recessions. "Potential trouble is not easily calculable," said Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. "When it happens, it tends to be off the charts."
The debate over what lies ahead has settled into two channels -- one traditional, the other haunting. The attention these days is focused mainly on the traditionalists, who concern themselves with standard economic forces. The consensus view, or at least the most common view among them, is that the American economy will slow next year as consumers pull back on both their extraordinary spending and their extraordinary borrowing to finance their spending. But almost no forecaster foresees a recession.
Falling prices for many goods and a very low inflation rate are squeezing corporate profits, they note. That can hurt the stock market. But with the economy holding up so well, nervousness that stock prices might really plunge has faded along with alarm about the Asian and Russian crises. True, stocks may not go higher, said James Glassman, a senior economist at Chase Manhattan Bank. They may even fall some. But "we don't think there is a bubble propping up the stock market," he said.
Above all, there is faith that the Federal Reserve has the leverage to give the economy enough stimulus, through lower interest rates, to counteract any blow from abroad.
"The worst may well be over for a battered and bruised global economy," wrote Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, in his latest forecast.
Mr. Roach anticipates rising economic growth around the globe by 2000 -- even in East Asia, now mired in recession. One stimulus, he says, is the $160 billion in loans and loan commitments that the International Monetary Fund has disbursed in rescue packages.
All this is rather traditional forecasting. At a less audible level, there are some haunting caveats from the less sanguine.
The worriers acknowledge that Asia, Russia, Brazil and Japan are not likely to prompt the next financial panic: Those countries' problems, while acute, are known and are being dealt with, more or less. And investors here and abroad, scared by Asia and Russia, have been paying down debt. No one knows exactly how much debt has been reduced, but it is likely that when the next panic comes, there will be fewer borrowers in danger of default or forced into hasty actions that make matters worse.
Panics, though, are responses not to known dangers but to events no one thought would happen. No one is, for example, anticipating that Argentina will default on foreign debts or devalue a currency that is pegged by law to the dollar. Neither is anyone expecting a rude shock to come from right here in the United States, said Albert Wojnilower, an economist at the Clipper Group, a Wall Street firm.
But it could. Business debt in the United States, rising for several years, jumped sharply in the third quarter, to $522 billion, the Federal Reserve reported recently. That is equivalent to about 6.5 percent of the gross domestic product, a very high level of business debt.
What if an indebted multinational, its profits squeezed by falling prices, found itself unable to keep up the payments on its loans? Mr. Wojnilower wondered. That picture is conceivable, but in today's rosy economic climate, it is certainly unanticipated. Of such surprises are financial panics made.
Nervous lenders would pull back again. In a global market where money flows freely everywhere, the blow to America would spread. Short-term loans might be called in from potentially shaky emerging markets. And a debate that has faded in recent months -- how to regulate capital flows and how to make the I.M.F. a more effective agency -- would once again take center stage.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 27, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about the possibility of future financial crises around the world, misstated the amount of business debt in the United States at the end of the third quarter. It was $5.13 trillion, not $522 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INFLATION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (62%); IMPEACHMENT (56%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS PAUL ADOLPH VOLCKER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



463 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 62; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5786 words

HEADLINE: The Anti-Trump

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine. His most recent article, about Cornelius Olive, a deacon in Harlem, appeared in November.

 BODY:
It would not be correct to say that jerry i. speyer has the most toys of any real-estate developer in New York; he does, however, have the best toys. Last year, in partnership with the Travelers Group and Lehman Brothers, he bought the Chrysler Building, for $220 million. Two years before that, he came within an ace of buying Rockefeller Center, and eventually settled for a small stake, in partnership with Goldman, Sachs; David Rockefeller; Gianni Agnelli; and Stavros Niarchos: it is Speyer, however, who is charged with restoring the property to its former glory. Speyer built, and owns, the second-tallest building in Europe, the 62-story Messeturm, in Frankfurt. He has also built, and still owns, a mahogany-toned granite office tower at 520 Madison Avenue, not to mention major commercial buildings in Houston, Chicago, San Francisco, Washington, Miami and Berlin. He is in the process of building two more structures in Berlin and one in Sao Paulo, a retail complex in Yonkers and an apartment building on lower West End Avenue. His company, Tishman Speyer Properties, owns a total of 36 million square feet of space; Speyer places the market value of the company's holdings at $10.5 billion. His friend Bernard Mendik, who plies the same trade at a more modest level, says, "Right now, Jerry is the No. 1 real-estate developer in the world."
 Speyer is not, of course, the most famous developer in the world. Not only is he not Donald Trump, he is the anti-Trump -- a soft-spoken, muted, secretive figure, an eminently clubbable man who keeps his ego under wraps. Speyer does not name buildings after himself. He has a second wife who is thin and attractive, but she is also a Harvard-trained architect who works on international acquisitions for Tishman Speyer. And yet, like Donald Trump, Speyer, who is 58, is a driven man with ambitions that carry him far beyond the world of real estate. It's just that it's not easy to say exactly what it is Speyer wants to be at the pinnacle of. He has played a central role on the boards of Columbia University and the Museum of Modern Art, and he is close to the Mayor. He is a major collector of contemporary art, and he has built for himself one of the very few architecturally daring private homes in Manhattan. He operates in that elite sphere in which wealth, public-spiritedness and proper table manners converge to form a colossal nexus of power, but one almost invisible to the outside world. As Speyer enigmatically explained: "One thing that sets me apart from the people who are entrepreneurs in this business is that I like to make money. But that's only part of what makes me happy." 
 In conversation, Speyer often told me how he preferred to "fly beneath the radar." And yet he agreed not only to talk to me but also to let me watch as he met with his own executives, other developers, major tenants and officials at the Modern. He even tried to get me into a private meeting at Gracie Mansion. When I asked, Speyer couldn't say why he had so opened himself up for scrutiny. Perhaps he is something of a mystery even to himself. Burt Lehman, a corporate lawyer and a friend of Speyer's since college, observes that "Jerry loves the image of being a very important man in New York without necessarily cultivating that the way a Donald Trump does." There is a kind of exalted standing that comes of not being seen to seek any standing at all.
This is a turbulent moment in the New York real-estate world. The boom of the last few years has been fueled by investment banks like Nomura Securities and Credit Suisse First Boston, which dumped billions into the real-estate market and then repackaged the resulting mortgages and sold them as securities. That market collapsed over the summer when the banks suffered heavy losses from investments in Asia and Russia. Several major developers, including Harry Macklowe, found that they had committed themselves to deals they could not finance. Capital is scarce these days. But not for Speyer: in 1997, Tishman Speyer and the Travelers Group put together an $800 million investment fund, which Speyer's company oversees. Speyer has already spent most of this amount -- on the Chrysler Building, among other properties -- and is now circulating to financial institutions an offering designed to raise another $750 million.
 Over the past several months, I spent a good deal of time sitting at Speyer's conference table while he considered deals and met with industry figures. The table itself was a beautiful slab of blond, burled wood with slender drawers for yellow pads and pencils and a little square of black marble in the center where an extra pair of Speyer's glasses always rested. A maid in a light blue uniform with an apron would come in with a glass of cold water or Diet Coke on a silver tray. It was all quite immaculate.
 Speyer himself is a pudgy fellow with a boxer's jutting chin and flattened planes; he has a way of talking out of the side of his mouth that is almost endearing in a man so self-consciously respectable. With his employees, he was casual and often jovial. Nevertheless, he had a few highly effective mechanisms of control. Sometimes he went so long without speaking as to completely unnerve the person across the table. Complicated crosscurrents were at play beneath Speyer's smooth surface: he invariably wore a dark tie and a white shirt, though underneath the starched cuff he sported a Mickey Mouse watch -- a kind of secret sign that he held himself ever so slightly apart from the corporate conventions that he otherwise scrupulously observed.
 During my visits, it often seemed as if the whole world were being parceled out at the conference table for Speyer's delectation. He pulled out of Southern California in the early 90's when things started to head south, and now he was moving back in; he kicked around a dozen or so proposals with the head of his new Los Angeles office. He brought in his wife, Katherine Farley, who was impressively crisp, and his man in South America, Hernan R. Martinez, to talk about whether the time was ripe for new investment in Brazil or Argentina. (It wasn't.) He talked with his son, Robert, who joined the business three years ago, about opportunities in New York: Alphabet City, the meat-packing district, East Harlem. He discussed deals in Japan, Spain, Palm Beach. He ducked into his office to take phone calls. A Washington lawyer called to say that the Administration was preparing a $40 billion loan package for Brazil -- this a good month before the announcement was made. Hank M. Paulson Jr., co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs, reported that the derivatives market was going haywire.
 One morning, when a friend of his whose net worth is in the high nine figures called, Speyer asked to have the call transferred to the conference room. He took the phone and, in a streetwise, real-estate-guy mode that I didn't entirely recognize, said, "You're my pal, and so I'm telling it to you straight." Speyer talked up his investment fund. He and Sanford I. Weill, the co-chairman of Citigroup, the company formed out of the merger of Travelers and Citibank, had agreed to add 75 $1 million units to the fund, to be offered to friends and favored clients. Speyer told his friend that his firm controlled the fund and that he expected profits of more than 20 percent. (Speyer says that his own company has generated a staggering 47.5 percent internal rate of return annually over the last five years.) Speyer's pal obviously didn't need either the $1 million or the profit he could earn on it, and when we talked about the call later, I described the transaction as a favor. Speyer shot me a look that implied I had a vulgar conception of behavior at the uppermost reaches of the business world. "It's not a favor," he said. "It's more about relationships." That was presumably why Speyer had taken the call in front of me; he wanted me to understand the meaning of "relationships" at his elevated level. The word "favor" apparently carried an unpleasant connotation of back-scratching; "relationships," of course, were. . .altogether different.
 In the great hierarchy of business activities, real estate is many leagues below investment banking in respectability, and only a notch or two above car dealerships. Speyer, however, has found a way of talking about his profession that makes it sound intellectually exciting. "I think of real estate as a little bit like cooking or like art," he said one afternoon. "Real estate is dependent on a way of thinking that is very different from the way that, for example, financial engineers look at a project. Financial engineers look at a piece of paper that's 8 1/2 by 11, look at a set of numbers and try to figure out how that relates to demographics or marketplace. But if you're a developer, you have to think about things that move you out of the box -- how it's going to affect its place, its landscape or its streetscape."
Speyer's greatest coup, his purchase of the Chrysler Building, was a triumph of imagination, financial engineering, relationships and nerve. The Chrysler Building is, of course, the toy of all toys -- the one skyscraper that provokes a sense of awe from even the veriest Philistines. It had also been, for almost 40 years, a neglected, underused asset. When the banks that held its mortgage put the building on the market last year, it provoked one of the greatest stampedes in New York real-estate history; virtually every major figure in the city submitted a bid. The real action, however, lay not with the banks but with the owner of the land under the building, the Cooper Union; it was understood that whoever succeeded in renegotiating the land lease with the school would then be able to reach a deal with the banks. Speyer was one of eight developers considered by Cooper Union officials. But during the final interview process, Speyer agreed to pay a significant premium in exchange for pre-emptive rights to the land. Speyer's team negotiated the new lease, and the interviews became moot. One of the other finalists, Steven C. Witkoff, says, "It was a great masterstroke on his part, and I think it's the best deal I ever missed."
 But Cooper Union might not have offered the same deal to Witkoff or the other competitors. Robert Hawks, Cooper Union's vice president, says: "We asked him to jump out of the pack. We had come to the conclusion that under the right terms, we wanted Tishman Speyer." Cooper Union is a full-tuition scholarship institution whose unique status depends on the revenue thrown off by the Chrysler Building; what the school needed, above all, was someone to safeguard the building's future value. It mattered that Speyer was part owner of Rockefeller Center, which had been built at the same time as the Chrysler Building. But Speyer's marketplace power also rests, in a strange way, on the perception that he transcends the marketplace. Hawks says: "The people who work for him, his prior involvement with Columbia University, his current involvement with MOMA have to affect one's thinking about the quality of the individual and the approach that he and his company would take to the building. The selection of the art that he has in his office also speaks to that." Or, as Jay Iselin, Cooper Union's president, puts it, "Often it's the unspoken that guides the spoken."
 Of course, the spoken mattered, too. Speyer could afford to sweeten his bid because he saw a way to squeeze more revenue out of the site. The deal included a thoroughly undistinguished structure nearby called the Kent Building; between it and the Chrysler Building lay four brownstones that the winner would purchase, perhaps constructing a low building to connect the two skyscrapers. The Kent Building was not only ugly but also inefficient, since the elevator core lay not in the center but to one side of the structure, a design that wastes space. Speyer and his team realized that they could break through one of the brownstones and extend the Kent Building 80 feet, thus placing the elevator core in the middle of the new structure; doing so would increase the amount of leasable space. Then Speyer proposed a highbrow touch: he hired Philip Johnson to design something eye-catching atop the low connecting structure, and Johnson devised what he calls "a deconstructed pyramid." Valerie Peltier, one of Speyer's daughters, who is heading up the redevelopment process, said that Johnson will also reclad the Kent Building. "In gold glass?" I asked. Donald Trump had commissioned Johnson to cover the Gulf & Western Building in gold. Peltier reeled in horror. "In smoky gray glass," she said. "What architects do depends on the client."
You can learn a good deal about Jerry Speyer from watching him eat. One morning in September, I joined him for breakfast at the Carlyle Hotel, where he had agreed to meet with P.C. Chatterjee, who runs a global-investment company. Speyer occupied the restaurant's seat of honor, on a flowered circular banquette beneath a magnificent urn brimming with white lilies and pear leaves. He and Chatterjee exchanged global-economy chitchat -- the millennium bug, the Euro conversion, the "software gap." Speyer ordered one of those bizarre breakfasts consumed almost only by powerful middle-aged men: an egg-white omelet, very well done, with seven-grain toast. As Chatterjee tried unsuccessfully to interest him in a real-estate joint venture -- too small, too much risk for the profit -- Speyer lapsed into one of his disconcerting silences. He began to consume his meal with comical fastidiousness, cutting the omelet into identical rectangles and pushing each one in turn against the edge of his toast until it rested on the center of his fork. It was a performance that seem designed either to rein in a large appetite or to impose a kind of transcendent tidiness on the act of eating. Not coincidentally, Speyer's princely demeanor had the effect of unsettling Chatterjee.
 One of the things you learn from watching Speyer is that there are ways of being powerful that don't much fit the picture of the brash tycoon celebrated in the tabloids. Speyer is related to Donald Trump the way Carlo Gambino is to John Gotti; he represents an older, and perhaps far more potent, model of the powerful man. Speyer says that when he was young he wanted to be a merchant banker, and the words themselves conjure an anachronistic ideal of propriety and probity that means a great deal to him. Sandy Weill, who has known Speyer socially for 20 years or so, says: "My feeling is one of complete trust. To feel that you don't have to dot every 'i' and cross every 't' is a great way to deal with people." Speyer is almost universally admired, especially at the upper altitudes, but his manner also has the effect of keeping people at a slightly uneasy distance. Ben Lambert, a real-estate banker who has known Speyer since the 60's, says: "Jerry's not an open person. That would suggest that he doesn't really trust people an inch closer than he can be comfortable with."
 Speyer always met me in the conference room rather than in his adjoining office. One morning, I persuaded Speyer's longtime assistant, Carol Karpel, to let me see the office. Speyer's desk was littered with toy trucks and taxis and all sorts of bric-a-brac. There was a relaxed and cluttered feel to the place that was almost the reverse of the austerely tasteful decor of the conference room -- the cozy private space of a man who arranges his public space with great care. Speyer came in and quickly led me back outside. About half an hour later, while we were talking about something else, he blurted out: "I was really shocked when I walked into the room and you were there in my office. I never meet people outside the company in my office."
 Speyer seems not altogether easy with himself, as perhaps befits a person who has crossed from another world. His mother is Swiss, and his father comes from one of the old Jewish families of Frankfurt; his father fled Germany in 1939. Speyer grew up in a cultivated and proper German-Jewish household on Riverside Drive. At Columbia University, he majored in German literature and joined Zeta Beta Thau, the right Jewish fraternity. Speyer was one of those people who were solid, and even solemn, at an age when others are still flailing and unsure of themselves. According to Burt Lehman, who was a frat brother: "Even at Z.B.T., he stood out from the rest of us. He wore a jacket and tie -- most of us hadn't worn a jacket and tie since our bar mitzvahs." After graduation, he chucked literature and enrolled at Columbia Business School. And he abandoned merchant banking for real estate.
 His decision had as much to do with personal as with business relationships. In 1963, while in business school, Speyer married Lynne Tishman, whose father, Robert, was the patriarch of the oldest, and one of the most respectable, New York real-estate families. It was, in every sense, a fortunate match. For Speyer, Bob Tishman was the living embodiment of a vanished era of simplicity and trust. "Bob's handshake was good," he said, almost reverently. "Period, end of paragraph." He joined the firm as his father-in-law's assistant in 1966; by 1970, Speyer, age 30, was made vice president and had become heir apparent. Tishman Realty was the largest "builder-owner" in the United States, but it was also one of the few that was publicly traded; family members had always had to content themselves with rather modest dividends. By the mid-70's, the Tishmans were ready to cash out, but they didn't know how to go about it. Speyer, however, straddled the old world and the new, and was instrumental, Tishman says, in figuring out how to liquidate the 75-year-old portfolio of buildings. The stock had been trading at $8 a share, but the value of the liquidation was almost four times as great. The two men created Tishman Speyer in 1978.
 The new firm came into being at the tail end of the recession and the beginning of the real-estate mania of the 1980's. Tishman Speyer built and bought properties around the country. But in 1986, with the boom in full swing, Speyer concluded that the country was getting overbuilt and quickly abandoned or sold an array of projects. This act of foresight, or appetite control, allowed Tishman Speyer to emerge from the last recession almost unscathed and to start buying again almost as soon as the market began to show signs of life. But Speyer was too restless simply to sit out the recession. In the mid-80's, he began traveling to Europe and Asia to look for investments. This was highly unorthodox behavior for New York developers, a provincial bunch who prefer to do their investing close to home. Speyer, however, was a much more worldly figure; he had traveled widely, and his German was fluent. He tried at first to build in China, and when that didn't work out he turned to Germany. He completed the Messeturm in 1990 and a building in Berlin last year. Speyer now has offices in Paris, London, Berlin, Frankfurt and Sao Paulo. He has, in effect, become the merchant banker, the global figure, he had dreamed of being. I once heard him blithely tell a meeting of his executive staff that "the European business establishment" was "furious" about the sacking of the chairman of a Swiss bank. There are any number of other guys who control more square feet than Speyer does, but none of them can tell you what the European business establishment thinks without consulting The Financial Times.
 Speyer and his first wife separated in 1987. That should have marked the end of Tishman Speyer, but the business relationship was, by all accounts, undisturbed. "It was about the most decent divorce I've ever heard of," Bob Tishman says. "There was no reason in the world to destroy what we built up over 20-something years." In fact, Tishman still has an emeritus role at the firm. Speyer, meanwhile, married Katherine in 1991. In addition to three children from his first marriage, he has a 6-year-old daughter from his second.
Speyer says that on his 40th birthday he decided that the time had come to "give back." This is about 20 years earlier than the point at which the average mogul reaches the stage of philanthropy. Speyer, of course, believed strongly in the old-fashioned tradition of public-spiritedness; he also aspired to something that could not be had around his conference table. As a young man, Speyer had served on the board of the Jewish Guild for the Blind, one of the traditional charities that the old-line families had supported. In the early 80's, he began operating at a different level. He became chairman of the Dalton School, where his children went, and then, in very rapid succession, joined the boards of Columbia University, the Modern and the New York City Partnership, an organization of C.E.O.'s.
 The most exclusive of these clubs was clearly the Modern, which Speyer was invited to join in 1982. The Rockefellers had been co-founders of the museum, and David Rockefeller remained a major force in its affairs when Speyer joined. The board had always been open to Jews, but not to real-estate men. Speyer was, however, the right kind of real-estate man. And he was eager to be of service. Soon after Speyer joined the board, Rockefeller recalls, "he asked if we could have lunch, and he made it clear that he wanted to be in the inner circle of the museum." Rockefeller, of course, had been born into the inner circle; Speyer was willing to make the effort needed to get there.
 Speyer didn't fully find a role for himself until the Modern decided in the early 90's to embark on a $650 million physical expansion plan. One reason that real-estate developers, whatever their social status, are given a place on the boards of major institutions is that they can be indispensable at such moments. The museum wanted to buy the building next door, the Dorset Hotel. Speyer had known the owner, Sol Goldman, for years, and he knew Goldman's children, who inherited the building on their father's death. Speyer spanned worlds -- the world of haggling, the world of art, the world of old money. He became the lead negotiator in a transaction that stretched over months. The heirs wanted at least $75 million, and they wanted to deliver the building half full; Speyer offered much less and insisted that it be turned over empty. It was 1994, and the market was ticking upward each month; new suitors began to appear. But Speyer persuaded the heirs to take a bird in the hand: the museum got an empty building for $50 million. Rockefeller says of Speyer, "I'm not sure that anyone else could have done it."
 Speyer has devoted an enormous amount of time to his boards, and has not been stinting with his money. He has given at least $5 million to the Modern, and he made a $10 million gift to Columbia, with no strings attached -- a university president's dream. (He also served as the university's chairman for two years.) In the aftermath of the fire that destroyed much of the historic Central Synagogue, where he has been a longtime member, Speyer telephoned Rabbi Peter Rubinstein and offered to help spearhead a fund-raising drive. At the Partnership, a business and civic organization that David Rockefeller founded, Speyer stepped in as chairman during a leadership vacuum in 1992 and took over day-to-day operations until a search committee found a new president. Speyer is widely credited with saving the partnership from irrelevance. This, too, won him the gratitude of Rockefeller, and of New York's corporate elite.
 One of Speyer's more envious competitors says, "The only way that you could knock him is that you're not really sure what his motivation is." But Speyer has never been accused of exploiting any of his positions for financial gain. The inner circle, for Speyer, is not a means but an end; it is where Speyer has always wanted to be. Being of service is, itself, a form of power and an instrument of power. Speyer is an important financial backer of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, and he speaks of him in the most lavish terms. The same, of course, could be said of plenty of other real-estate figures. But Speyer also acts as a kind of smoother-of-the-way with the notoriously prickly Mayor. When Robert R. Kiley, whom Speyer helped install as president of the Partnership in 1995, was so foolish as to criticize publicly some of the Mayor's policies, one of the Mayor's top aides asked Speyer to give him a talking-to. Speyer, as Kiley recalls, "reminded me that he thought the best approach to the Partnership in general was to do things through quiet persuasion, which is his modus operandi." The Partnership now gets along perfectly well with City Hall.
 Several friends of Speyer's suggested that he looked to Rockefeller as a kind of exemplar -- a distant, glittering polestar of quiet power and public regard. When I asked Speyer what he thought of Rockefeller, he fell to musing, and finally said, in his softest and most silken tones, "He's one of the most thoughtful people I've ever met in my life." He thought some more. "And modest," he added, "extraordinarily modest." One can imagine Speyer wanting to have those very words carved on his tombstone. I asked if his friendship with Rockefeller included a feeling of emulation. Now there was a very, very long pause. At last, looking somewhere over my shoulder, halting to reflect every few words, Speyer said: "I would say that David is probably an absolutely unique person in this century. It would be pretty presumptuous for me to think of him as a role model. It would be absurd."
Real-estate developers do not all like their buildings, or their wives, gold-plated, but it is not a profession generally associated with good taste. Speyer's sense of refinement is an important element of his appeal, as least in the realm of the unspoken. Philip Johnson says that Speyer "has a lot more esthetic sense than any other developer I know." Speyer speaks knowledgeably about the artworks he owns, which tend to be irreverent, ironic and fairly far-out, especially compared with the owner. The dealers he buys from say that while he owns work from well-known figures like Eric Fischl and Damien Hirst, he usually pursues pieces that are too recent to have been validated by critical opinion; he buys them himself. His house, on the Upper East Side, which was built in a space formerly occupied by two brownstones, and has an arresting facade of limestone over glass, is a striking testimony to his interest in architecture and to his commitment to the modern. (It was designed by two highly regarded young architects, Billie Tsien and Tod Williams.) Like the art collection, like the elite board memberships, the house is a token of Speyer's unique status in his world.
 Developers, of course, exercise an enormous influence over what New York looks like; their crassness partly explains the stunning absence of architecturally important buildings in the city. Speyer plainly cares about the developer's esthetic responsibility. One day he took me into the Paine Webber Building, on Avenue of the Americas, to show me the modest things he had done to make the lobby less banal -- wooden bays to house the art collection, a latticework just inside the glass wall, pink granite floors. And yet the only really extraordinary structure Speyer has built is his own home. In the competition for the site now occupied by the Coliseum, in Columbus Circle, Speyer proposed a structure by Helmut Jahn that the Times architecture critic Herbert Muschamp described as "on a par with the best architecture in the world today." But the view inside the industry is that Speyer never went all-out to win the bid, and he ended as an also-ran. Speyer himself says, variously, that zoning rules and building regulations, or the economics of building on spec, preclude the creation of truly distinguished buildings in New York. Perhaps he is saying that it's not worth the trouble. Certainly one of the paradoxes of Speyer's career is that a man with a genuine affinity for the new will be remembered principally as a caretaker of the old.
Rockefeller center inspires a distinct sense of reverence in Jerry Speyer. "We don't think about the initiative that John D. Rockefeller, David's father, took to build this thing," he said one day. Rockefeller started the project in 1929 and built it straight through the Depression. It had been, as Speyer understood it, a great testimony of faith in New York at the darkest moment. And then in May 1995, Rockefeller Center was placed in receivership after its owner, Mitsubishi, failed to make its mortgage payments. Speyer, who has a broad streak of the dutiful son in him, saw the opportunity to salvage and sustain the Rockefellers' great gift to the city -- and at an excellent price. He sought and received the blessing of David Rockefeller, whose family trusts held 20 percent of the center through the Rockefeller Group. He offered Mitsubishi more than $200 million; the company accepted, and then pulled out at the last minute. "I would say I was probably devastated," Speyer said -- the only time I ever heard him use such confessional language. "We had never really gone public with anything. The notion that it had cratered was just unthinkable." The humiliation of public exposure was tangled with the loss of a precious treasure.
 But Speyer wasn't finished. Mitsubishi's default had created a crisis for the real-estate trust that held the mortgage. Goldman, Sachs was the trust's principal lender and held warrants that it could convert into effective ownership of the trust. Goldman decided to pursue ownership of Rockefeller Center, but it needed partners both to share the equity and to develop the property. Speyer was almost an inevitable choice. Goldman's co-chairman, Hank Paulson, was one of Speyer's regular sources of market wisdom, as well as a friend. The head of Goldman's own real-estate investment fund was Daniel Neidich, who had worked with Speyer on the purchase of the Dorset Hotel for the Modern. Goldman was determined to work with Rockefeller, and Rockefeller felt comfortable with Speyer. Here was an intricate web of relationships that Speyer had spent his entire career weaving, a web in which the philanthropic Speyer and the entrepreneurial Speyer were seamlessly bound. In the end, Goldman chose a group consisting of Speyer, Rockefeller, Gianni Agnelli and Stavros Niarchos to buy 50 percent of the property. Speyer and Rockefeller would each own 5 percent, and Agnelli and Niarchos 20 percent.
 There are plenty of developers in New York who would not deign to develop Rockefeller Center if they could not own it. One of the instant colossi of the 90's boom says, with majestic condescension, "Jerry's really a professional manager." Speyer can live with the epithet. He is now spending much of his time on a $100 million plan to revitalize the area. "Every project has one big idea," Speyer said, standing at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 51st Street one afternoon. "The one big idea here was to bring Rockefeller Center back to having the majesty it had when it was first built." This is a very careful piece of phrasing, because Speyer wants to make large-scale changes in this symbolically charged space. He has already lost out in a battle with the Landmarks Preservation Commission to build modern, double-height windows in the stores that look over the famous Channel Gardens that run down to the skating rink. He was, however, permitted to enlarge somewhat the windows overlooking Fifth Avenue.
 Speyer has a weakness for maxims; one of his favorites is, "If you don't change, you die." Rockefeller Center, he argues, has suffered from creeping petrification. And so, walking toward the southwest corner of the skating rink, near where a store called the NBC Experience will go, he said, "I think we can bring a new retail language to Rockefeller Center that would really change midtown." This is the language of the big, jazzy stores that have already taken over much of Fifth Avenue -- what Speyer calls "retail as theater." Banana Republic has agreed to build its flagship store at 50th and Fifth; a Reebok Sports Club, the biggest in New York, will take over the area once occupied by the passport office. Cipriani International will soon assume control of the Rainbow Room, and Christie's has agreed to move from Park Avenue.
 Speyer's ambition is nothing less grandiose than to make Rockefeller Center the heart of the city, so that New Yorkers will meet there the way they once did under the clock at the Biltmore Hotel. He plans to revamp the vast, Stygian underground shopping area, clearing out many of the current structures so that natural light from the skating rink will shine into the subterranean plaza. It is in this enclosed space that Speyer hopes locals will converge. To anyone who knows the city, this is an extremely tall order. New Yorkers may prove reluctant to adopt an underground space -- however attractively lighted -- as their Rialto. The subways may be enough. More important, Rockefeller Center is a quintessential place for tourists, the Empire State Building of urban plazas. It's hard to imagine a Banana Republic changing the dynamic. "New Yorkers don't need that kind of Biltmore clock," says Craig Whitaker, an architect and urban planner. "It's, 'I'll see you at whatever-the-restaurant-is at 7."' Rockefeller Center can become showier, but not funkier.
 Of course, this whole dialectic of constancy and change is a terribly delicate thing: rigor mortis lies on one side and vulgarity on the other. Speyer knows exactly what the world will say if he isn't careful. "There's a culture in each of these buildings that's really important to respect," he said, lest I miss the point. Yes, some of the shoe-repair guys would have to go, but he would find a new spot for the hallowed, dingy barbershop-to-the-schlockenheimer-stars. "We're staying absolutely away from anything that's faddish," Speyer said. There will be no theme restaurants.
 One afternoon, we went into the lobby of 50 Rockefeller Center; in an area where two stores once stood there was now a marble wall pierced by a frosted-glass rectangle. The glass has been carved with arcing motifs that evoke the Art Deco vocabulary of the surrounding architecture. As we stood there, Speyer asked me proudly, "If you had never been here before, would you be able to tell that the lobby was redone?" You would not, I thought. It was, like Speyer himself, a study in the artful and intricate superimposition of the new upon the old.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Speyer. (Photograph by Timothy Greenfield-Sanders for The New York Times)(pg. 63); Family circle (clockwise from above): Speyer (front right) at 18, with Mom, Dad and Sis aboard the S.S. Rotterdam (the Speyer Family); with his wife, Katherine Farley, at a MOMA benefit in November (Bill Cunningham); Lynne Tishman, Speyer's first wife, whose dowry turned out to be the real-estate empire of her father, Robert Tishman (Harcourt-Harris); with Tishman. (Real Estate Forum Magazine); Chrysler Building (Timothy Greenfield-Sanders for The New York Times)(pgs. 64 & 65); Business-and-politics circle (clockwise from above): Frederick P. Rose, Leona Helmsley and Speyer at the Real Estate Board of New York's annual banquet, 1998 (Steve Friedman); Speyer, his son, Robert, and President Reagan, 1982 (White House Photo); with Hillary Clinton at the tree-lighting ceremony in Rockefeller Center, 1998 (Joe Vericker/Photobureau); with President Bush, 1989. (White House Photo)(pgs. 66 & 67); Inner circle a k a the Modern's board (from left): Glenn D. Lowry, Sid R. Bass, Ronald S. Lauder, David Rockefeller (emeritus, seated), Marshall S. Cogan, Agnes Gund and Speyer. (Photograpy by Timothy Greenfield-Sanders)(pg. 68)
 
Collage: Messeturm/Frankfurt; 1301 Avenue of the Americas/New York; 375 Hudson Street/New York; Rockefeller Center/New York; Equitable Center/New York; Chrysler Building/New York; NBC Tower/Chicago/ (Collage by Jeremy Wolff)(pgs. 62 & 63)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); BRAZIL (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (88%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (70%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); BRAZIL (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); ART COLLECTING (60%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SID BASS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



464 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: American Bombs Make Iraq Stronger

BYLINE: By Ronald Steel; Ronald Steel is a professor of international relations at the University of Southern California.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
President Clinton's decision to bomb Iraq, although understandable as an expression of exasperation with Saddam Hussein's deceptions, is likely to cause more problems than it solves.
In effect it solves nothing. The Clinton Administration did not claim that the bombing would remove Mr. Hussein from power, or even that it would seriously reduce his ability to produce chemical or biological weapons. Nor does anyone suggest that this attack will induce him to comply with future demands of United Nations weapons inspectors. 
 So it would seem the attack was intended to do little more than demonstrate that the patience of the United States Government had been worn out and that its frustration demanded a response.
A military operation inspired by such emotion and seeking such modest objectives can be justified only if the cost is very low. But that is far from the case here. Indeed, the political fallout is likely to be more beneficial to Saddam Hussein than to the United States.
The bombing means the end of the United Nations weapons inspection program, called Unscom. For all the roadblocks the Iraqis put in its way, the program had considerable success over its seven years. Indeed, one reason President Clinton gave for calling off last month's scheduled air strikes was that the action would have meant the end of Unscom. "We would then have no oversight, no insight, no involvement in what is going on in Iraq," he said at the time. Now, apparently, that doesn't matter.
With the loss of the inspections, the United States will be locked into a huge military presence in the Persian Gulf for years. Not only will this cost billions and embroil us even deeper into the convoluted politics of the region, but it will also strain links with friendly Arab regimes.
Leaders of Saudi Arabia and the gulf emirates may hate Saddam Hussein, but they fear being accused by their own people -- whose support of Iraq in this conflict is clear -- of being lackeys of the United States. Not a single Arab state that supported the gulf war, including Kuwait, has openly backed this raid. Egypt, Syria and even the United Arab Emirates have opposed it.
In addition, the principal restraint keeping Saddam Hussein in check -- economic sanctions -- has been seriously compromised. Although Russia and France have pushed hard to end sanctions, they have for the most part observed them, which has limited Iraq's military strength.
Sanctions were imposed not by the United States but by the Security Council. We have consistently defended our actions against Iran as justified by United Nations resolutions. But the current attack does not have that authorization, and Russia and China have denounced it. If the United States can bomb Iraq without authorization, then why won't other countries feel free to buy its oil and sell it goods?
The attack also endangers our relations with Security Council members on other issues. For example, in denouncing the attack, the Russians declared that they were shelving plans to ratify Start II -- an arms reduction treaty the United States very much wants.
Yes, Saddam Hussein is a menace to his own people and the entire Middle East. There is a case to be made for unilateral American military action -- if we have the support of our partners and the action is on a scale to be truly effective. But Desert Fox (with its curious reference to a Nazi field marshal) does not meet that standard.
A successful operation of this sort requires a certain degree of cleverness and hypocrisy. We have not been clever enough to convince our allies, other than Britain, that it is in their best interest.
Nor do we have the support of the Security Council, a fig leaf that has been highly useful in justifying American-led interventions from the Korean War to the gulf war. By declaring that the United States seeks to depose Saddam Hussein and pave the way for a new Iraqi government, President Clinton went far beyond his United Nations mandate, as Secretary General Kofi Annan reminded him.
Because the Administration made no serious pretense to play by United Nations rules, if only for show, it will be harder in the future for the United States to claim that its unilateral actions are taken on behalf of the world community.
Hypocrisy, which La Rochefoucauld called the tribute vice pays to virtue, has an honored place in diplomacy, as it does in politics. This operation lacks the virtue of its vices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (68%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (68%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: STEEL, RONALD (PROF) BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998



465 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Iraq, After Saddam

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan; Robert D. Kaplan, a correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of "The Arabists: The Romance of an American Elite."

DATELINE: STOCKBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
The real question in the Middle East isn't whether the bombing of Iraq was called for. It is what will happen after the missile attacks, which were intended to destabilize Saddam Hussein's regime and to help usher in a new Iraqi government.
I've just spent two months traveling in five countries in that region. Both the Arabs and Israelis with whom I spoke were worried that the Clinton Administration's vague statements in recent months about potential liberalization in Iraq were an indication that Washington had no clear idea what would follow military action. As the Lebanese writer Elias Khoury told me, regimes like the one in Iraq "have not only destroyed their societies, but any alternative to their rules, so that the choice may lie between total control and total chaos." 
 Iraq is a carapace of tyranny that hides an utter void. Three times between 1958 and 1968 a dictatorial regime fell only to have another quickly, and bloodily, replace it. But none compares to Saddam Hussein's, which in three decades has destroyed the fabric of communities, businesses and associations that make for a functioning society.
The Iraqi opposition -- with its Sunni, Shiite and competing Kurdish factions -- mirrors the ethnic and regional fragmentation that has bedeviled this Frankenstein monster of a country since it was cobbled together after World War I from three Ottoman Turkish provinces: Kurdish Mosul in the north, Sunni Baghdad in the center and Shiite Basra in the south.
Until the 1958 army coup that toppled the Hashemite dynasty in Baghdad, a talented Prime Minister, Nuri Said, held Iraq together by appeasing each ethnic group and playing them off against one another. But today, after the economic and social destruction wrought by Saddam Hussein, Iraq seems even less prepared for democracy than it was in the 1950's. "Saddam has destroyed everything," an Arab journalist who travels frequently to Baghdad told me. "All that is left is clan loyalty and an angry, disoriented population."
In every country I visited, officials, scholars and military men referred to the history of modern Middle East states, in which the introduction of democratic parliaments has rarely led to stable, pro-Western regimes. In the late 1940's and 50's, for example, Syria held three democratic elections. All broke down along ethnic and regional lines. The military dictatorships that followed also fell apart because of ethnic and regional conflicts. It has taken Hafez al-Assad's exceptional cunning and ruthlessness to hold the country together.
In Lebanon in the 1970's, a weak democratic Government could do nothing as social and class grievances, combined with old tribal-religious feuds, led to civil war. In Jordan today, the royal family prevents a democratic Parliament from undoing the peace treaty with Israel. Pro-Western Egypt is a military dictatorship; real elections there would probably usher in a fundamentalist regime.
Kamal Salibi, the director of the Royal Institute for Interfaith Studies in Amman, Jordan, told me that "perhaps only the business community can provide an avenue for civil society" in places like Iraq and Syria. Given the circumstances, he said, this might happen only under the aegis of a benign military regime representing the interests of the bourgeoisie, which would hold the country together while starting it on the path of reform.
Even if the Administration had a plan for such a regime to take power in Iraq after Mr. Hussein's fall, the chances of it succeeding would be modest. While the Administration's reasons for destroying his ability to maintain weapons of mass destruction are impeccable, without a plan for the future the Administration may force a dangerous turning point.
The destruction of Iraq, which is part of an artificial system of Mideast states that arose after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire and the post-World War I peace treaties, would have far-reaching and unpredictable consequences throughout the region. Neighboring Turkey, Syria and Iran all have diseased political systems that are behind the curve of socioeconomic development in their countries.
Iraq's implosion would revive the ghost of an independent oil-rich Kurdistan in the north, a region ceded away by Turkey's founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Many Turks want it back. Thus a new war could erupt between Turkey and the Kurds. Because little political consensus exists in Turkey on this issue, a weakened Iraq would lead to a further militarization of Turkey, where the Parliament is already becoming a sideshow to the general staff.
Bombing Iraq is a much bigger gamble than embracing the recent Wye Plantation accords. The Israeli-Palestinian peace process merely seeks a legalistic framework for the two separate societies that already exist. But by trying to topple Saddam Hussein, the White House is betting (whether it admits it or not) that it has the historical wisdom and the appetite for power required to steer the larger Middle East toward a new political order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST; GREAT BRITAIN; MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WORLD WAR I (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); RELIGION (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, ROBERT D; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



466 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Playing Movies Like a Growth Stock

BYLINE: By LINDA LEE 

 BODY:
Call it the "Full Monty" wager.
Last year, flush with money from the bull market in stocks and seeing a big upside potential in inexpensive little films, three independent film companies were set up by players better known as financiers than auteurs. 
 There was Artisan Entertainment, bankrolled by the venture capital firm Bain Capital, which had advised clients about investing in movie companies, but never before bought one. There was Lions Gate Entertainment, headed by Frank Giustra, an investment banker in Vancouver, British Columbia, whose prior specialty was taking mining companies public. And then there was Stratosphere Entertainment, founded by the corporate raider Carl C. Icahn.
Driving their ambitions was the quest to find or, even better, to make a movie as successful as Fox Searchlight's "Full Monty," a 1997 release that cost only $3.5 million but grossed $256 million worldwide. Fox Searchlight is owned by the News Corporation.
Because of the attendant glamour, "there is a huge appeal for people to finance movies, especially in good years," said Mark Curcio, chief executive of Artisan Entertainment. "There are always irrational reasons for investing. If it's not movies, it's airlines. And probably casinos and sports teams."
For each of the new, financially attuned companies, the real attraction was the prospect of spotting a bargain and playing it like a growth stock -- as Artisan did, when it paid $500,000 at the Sundance Festival for "Pi," a film about a man's mystical obsession with numbers that has grossed $3 million at the American box office.
"I got the world for $500,000," crowed Amir Malin, one of Artisan's two presidents.
And yet, despite occasionally catching the eye of the critics, most notably with Lions Gate's Golden Globe nominee "Gods and Monsters," there is no certainty that these independent film upstarts will fare any better in the art-film market than the last time a pack of start-up companies entered the independent film business -- during the high-flying 1980's.
"Today mirrors the 80's, when companies like New World, Atlantic Releasing and Cinecom were all gearing to go public," said Tom Bernard, the co-president of Sony Pictures Classics, which, like many of the most prominent "independents" today, is actually owned by a large studio. By the early 90's New World, Atlantic Releasing and Cinecom had left the independent film business.
This time around, like such established independent film companies as Sony Pictures Classics and Disney's Miramax, the new crop of independents produces movies as well as buys them. And so far, among the three upstarts, Artisan seems to be in the lead.
Bain Capital, in partnership with the investment fund Richland Gordon & Company, formed Artisan out of the old Live Entertainment, which had primarily been a video distributor and owned a video library of 1,700 titles including "Terminator 2" and "Basic Instinct."
"In order to build a lasting independent company you need to buy a library and build a stable cash-flow stream," Mr. Curcio said. "Then you can leverage that into doing smart production." Artisan has expanded its video library to more than 6,000 titles.
Among films that Artisan has produced itself, the company this year had a critical success -- if not a financial one -- with "Permanent Midnight," starring Ben Stiller.
Mr. Curcio said he was satisfied with the first year's results. "Live was $120 million in revenue," he said. "At the end of this year we will be over $200 million in revenue, and very profitable." He declined to elaborate -- the prerogative of a private company.
Many people heard of Lions Gate for the first time in May, when the magic name Leonardo DiCaprio was attached to Lions Gate's planned film "American Psycho," based on the controversial Bret Easton Ellis novel. But after the director, Mary Harron, was shouldered aside to allow Mr. DiCaprio to choose his own director, the actor himself backed out of the deal. Ms. Harron recently returned to the project, in which the male lead will now be played by Christian Bale.
Lions Gate Entertainment, based in Vancouver, is publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange. And, as of last month its shares were listed on the American Stock Exchange, where they have drifted in the $3.25 to $3.50 range, closing Friday at $3.1875, unchanged for the day. Expanding into the United States equities market is part of the company's growth plan. "Now that we have access to capital, we can exploit that access," said Jeff Sackman, president of Lions Gate Films, the film production and acquisition division of Lions Gate Entertainment.
Lions Gate Entertainment had a net loss of $1.34 million (Canadian), or $870,500 (United States) in its fiscal second quarter, which ended Sept. 30, but operating earnings of $464,000 (Canadian) on revenue of $24.3 million (Canadian). The founder, Mr. Giustra, has set up Lions Gate Entertainment as a broad-based film entertainment company.
The Lions Gate Films division is the former Cinepix Film Properties, which had 800 films in its library before being acquired by Mr. Giustra. Lions Gate Entertainment also has a production deal with the producer Peter Guber's Mandalay Entertainment, which has made films with solid box-office results like "I Know What You Did Last Summer."
Lions Gate Films' year-end hopes rest with "Affliction," a film starring Nick Nolte, Sissy Spacek, James Coburn and Willem Dafoe that opens Dec. 30 and for which Mr. Nolte has been nominated for a Golden Globe award.
The third new company, Stratosphere, is off to a slower beginning. Having started from scratch, rather than acquiring other distributors, Mr. Icahn's company has no library of old films. And it has the added challenge of specializing in the release of foreign films -- a hard way for an American film company to make money, despite Miramax's success at that game. Of the handful of foreign films it has acquired, Stratosphere has released the subtitled Austrian film "Inheritors," and the subtitled Russian-language film "The Thief," which was nominated for an Academy Award for the best foreign-language film.
"I know I broke even on 'The Thief,' maybe even made money," said Paul E. Cohen, an experienced independent film executive who runs Stratosphere for Mr. Icahn. "We've done about $1.1 million to date."
The company had a rougher time, though, with its American films like "One Tough Cop," starring Stephen Baldwin. Stratosphere paid $2.25 million for the movie, which has taken in only $1.5 million since opening 11 weeks ago.
But it has high hopes for "Hideous Kinky," a film starring the "Titanic" heroine Kate Winslet, which Stratosphere will release next year.
For the independent film companies, the hot foreign markets of last year have cooled.
Mr. Sackman of Lions Gate Films acknowledges international concerns. "Clearly, the worldwide economic situation affects this industry as much as any others," he said. "We know what we're doing, but I wouldn't recommend others get into it. Not now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nick Nolte, James Coburn, Willem Dafoe and Sissy Spacek in "Affliction," a film from Lions Gate. At right, its president, Jeff Sackman."; Actor Stephen Baldwin, left, with Carl C. Icahn, center, and Paul E. Cohen at the premier of "One Tough Cop"(Albert Ferreria/Stratosphere Entertainment); Bill Block, left, Amir Malin, center, and Mark Curcio of Artisan Entertainment
 
Chart: "Hoping for Big Hits From Small Films"
Small film companies are attracting wealthy investors who hope to strike it rich with low-budget hits.
 
LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT
EXECUTIVES: Frank Giustra, chief executive; Jeff Sackman, president for films
FOUNDED: November 1997
INVESTORS: Publicly traded
MOVIE BUDGETS: $3 million to $10 million.
SELECTED 1998 RELEASES: "Affliction" (opens Dec. 30), "Buffalo '66," "Gods and Monsters," "I Married a Strange Person" (animation) and "Love and Death on Long Island"
HIGH HOPES FOR 1999: "Dog Park," "Le Diner de Cons" and "The Red Violin"
 
STRATOSPHERE ENTERTAINMENT
EXECUTIVES: Carl C. Icahn, chairman; Paul E. Cohen, chief executive
FOUNDED: October 1997
INVESTORS: Carl C. Icahn
MOVIE BUDGETS: $6 million to $8 million.
SELECTED 1998 RELEASES: "The Inheritors" (Austrian), "One Tough Cop," "The Last Big Thing" and "The Thief" (Russian)
HIGH HOPES FOR 1999: "Bandits" (in German), "The Boys" and "Hideous Kinky," starring Kate Winslet
 
ARTISAN ENTERTAINMENT
EXECUTIVES: Mark Curcio, chief executive; Bill Block and Amir Malin, presidents
FOUNDED: April 1997
INVESTORS: Bain Capital and Richland Gordon & Company
MOVIE BUDGETS: Up to $30 million
SELECTED 1998 RELEASES: "Belly," "I Went Down," "Jerry Springer: Ringmaster," "Niagara, Niagara," "Permanent Midnight" and "Pi"
HIGH HOPES FOR 1999: "Felicia's Journey," "Limey," and "The Ninth Gate," starring Johnny Depp and Frank Langella 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); LGF (NYSE) (58%); DIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (50%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (59%); AUSTRIA (51%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (59%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (59%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: ARTISAN ENTERTAINMENT; LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT; STRATOSPHERE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS CORP (83%); LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT CORP (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); GORDON & CO PC (50%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTISAN ENTERTAINMENT; LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT; STRATOSPHERE ENTERTAINMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (59%); AUSTRIA (51%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (59%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (59%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); STARTUPS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); AIRLINES (66%); MINES & MINING (55%); 

PERSON: LEE, LINDA CARL ICAHN (94%); KATE WINSLET (79%); JOHNNY DEPP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



467 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Less Pressure From Wall St.For Cutbacks In Newsrooms

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
The financial news bulletins from the newspaper industry since the summer have had a depressingly familiar ring to journalists who lived through the brutal advertising recession of the early 1990's or the run-up in newsprint prices three years ago. Since September, staff reductions have been announced at The Wall Street Journal, at The Dallas Morning News and twice over at The Los Angeles Times. From midsummer on, advertising revenue was down unexpectedly in markets like Boston, Dallas, Los Angeles and San Jose.
A decade ago -- even three years ago -- bulletins like these sent shivers through newsroom executives, many of whom were forced to reduce both their staffs and the space dedicated to news, features and editorials. In 1995, Wall Street analysts sent the price of the Times Mirror Company's stock up 70 percent in the first three months after the company's chief executive, Mark H. Willes, closed New York Newsday and cut newsroom staffs at The Los Angeles Times and The Baltimore Sun. 
 There was not much evidence to contradict the popular belief that Wall Street was the newsroom's enemy.
But, for a change, the financial community that once seemed indifferent, if not downright pleased, about the budgetary squeeze on journalists is emerging as the newsroom's ally. For the moment, at least.
Even those newspapers cutting their work forces are barely grazing their newsrooms. At The Los Angeles Times, there have been cutbacks in regional editions, but increases in staff in other areas, like financial news coverage. All told, perhaps 5 percent of the 750 jobs being eliminated at The Los Angeles Times affect the newsroom. At The Wall Street Journal, 136 people took advantage of the recent buyout offer; 11 of them were in the newsroom and some of them may be replaced.
Newsrooms have a bottom-line function, analysts said. Stronger news coverage may help stem circulation declines. And in the cacophony of the Internet, a distinctive editorial voice may be a crucial advantage.
The word "journalism" was notable for its absence during interviews with financial analysts at a Paine Webber media conference this month. Still, Douglas M. Arthur of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company acknowledged, "If you invest in color presses and you invest in editorial, it sells papers and drives circulation, and that's the point."
Mr. Arthur, who reads three papers daily -- The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The New York Post -- is the brother of John Arthur, the managing editor for regional editions at The Los Angeles Times.
Mr. Arthur reads the industry's recent history as a tale of companies undergoing a fundamental restructuring on the fly, and sometimes overreacting. After the recession, he said, "there was a lot of cost-cutting, asset restructuring and union negotiations in an effort to get labor costs under control; now there's a renewed focus on the product."
One of Kevin R. Gruneich's first jobs was delivering The Des Moines Register to his neighbors. When his old paper was bought by the Gannett Company, and its prized role as a statewide voice was trimmed -- along with distribution costs -- Mr. Gruneich, now an analyst with Bear, Stearns, felt a twinge of regret. "I hated to see the pullback from full statewide distribution," he said. But the decision to limit distribution to the areas closer to Des Moines, he said, made financial sense.
If forced to choose between the old, more expensive statewide focus and the current plan, "I'd probably come down on the hard-eyed side," he said. "There are 1,500 daily newspapers in the country. I don't think there's any civic obligation for The Des Moines Register to deliver everywhere."
But investment in journalism, as opposed to distribution systems, is different, he said. Why? "In a more electronic future, the infinite fragmentation that is the Internet means that you're really going to have to have a brand that stands out," he said. "If you keep moving it down to the lowest common denominator, you're going to be lost in the clutter."
When Lauren Rich Fine of Merrill Lynch Global Securities talks to newspaper company executives, the first question she says she is asked is, "What does Wall Street think about Pulitzer Prizes?"
"The quick response I usually give is, 'For the most part, they don't care, unless it involves the paper they're reading,' " she said. "Then they care a lot." The New York Times Company, she added, "has been able to get away with lower margins because it's universally accepted that we don't want the paper to cut back on the newsroom because it offers in-depth analysis."
Ms. Fine is not averse to newsroom spending -- if it can be done efficiently. "The culture of the newsroom," as she sees it, is that journalists "have historically held themselves apart, that they are doing something for the good of mankind." But, she added, "if you've chosen to be a public company, shareholder and God aren't always perfectly aligned in terms of what they want."
Mr. Willes, a lightning rod for controversy since the cuts he made as the chief executive of Times Mirror, is cautious about the idea that financial analysts were once hostile to news budgets.
"I think there was a lot of question, initially, about whether there was discipline on the cost side," Mr. Willes said in a recent interview. "As organizations increasingly demonstrate discipline on the cost side, but also say, 'We're going to continue to maintain and improve the editorial quality' -- that's the message they want to hear."
"At the end of the day, we're financial analysts," William Drewry of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette said, who "tend to be reflecting more quantitatively than qualitatively."
"You're not recommending one stock over another because you think their newspaper is better," he said. "You're recommending it because the earnings growth is better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lauren Rich Fine, a newspaper analyst, says spending on editorial operations by newspapers can sometimes be good for shareholders. (Janet Century for The New York Times)(pg. C7)
 
Graph: "Better News"
Newspaper stocks still lag the overall market, but their recent performance is a significant improvement. Graphh tracks weekly closes of the S. & P. 500 and the S. & P. newspaper publishing index, since the beginning of the year. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (57%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (94%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); TIMES MIRROR CO (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); NEWSPRINT (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY DOUGLAS M ARTHUR (62%); LAUREN RICH FINE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



468 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Off-Peak New Yorkers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "New One-Day Metrocards to Be Aimed at Infrequent Riders" (news article, Dec. 18): The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's decision to limit the sale of a new $4 one-day Metrocard to locations outside of subway stations is mistaken. Making these one-day passes more widely available will only be good for the M.T.A. and the city. 
 Fewer people will take extra trips during rush hour. And the pass will allow them to do more in a day for a single $4 fare: see a friend for lunch downtown, go to a museum across town after work, or stay late and have dinner with friends in the Village and see a late movie in Times Square.
We will have fun with the pass, use the subways and buses more during off-peak hours and add to the city's economy. What's the problem with that?
 
PAUL SHERIDAN
Brooklyn, Dec. 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); 

PERSON: SHERIDAN, PAUL MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



469 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Columbus Returns as 600-Ton Tourist Magnet

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: CATANO, P.R., Dec. 20

 BODY:
Police Officer Adan Vargas Maldonado tried to picture what a 30-story-tall bronze statue of Christopher Columbus would look like.
"I don't imagine it beautiful, but attractive, yes," he said as he kept watch on the mammoth head and other statue parts, strewn about in a park, awaiting assembly. "It'll be something supernatural for Puerto Rico." 
 Such lukewarm views are an improvement over the reaction in almost every American city that has considered but rejected the statue by Zurab K. Tsereteli, the Russian sculptor who gave it to the United States as a gift of friendship in the early 1990's.
In South Florida, cities like Miami Beach and Fort Lauderdale passed on erecting the 600-ton monument because of its size and the costs involved, about $25 million for shipping and assembling. In Columbus, Ohio, which debated adding the statue of Columbus at the helm of a ship to its other memorials in honor of the explorer, some nicknamed it "Chris Kong," and American Indians said it glorified someone who represented "500 years of genocide."
But where some see a colossal headache, others see a potential moneymaker. The statue is about to settle down in Catano, a city of 36,000 better known for flooding, industrial pollution and playing ugly duckling to San Juan, its neighbor across San Juan Bay, but whose leaders expect soon to blossom as an international tourist attraction.
Plans call for the statue, which would rise here 295 feet above sea level, to become the centerpiece of a waterfront tourism complex, which would also feature a pedestrian mall, restaurants, shops and boutiques, inspired by Epcot Center in Orlando, Fla. Proponents say the complex, a short ferry ride from the cruise ships that anchor at San Juan Harbor, could draw 500,000 visitors a year.
"This is going to put Catano on the map of the world," said Sergio Cordero, a Miami consultant who is manager of the statue project here. "People will recognize it like they recognize the Eiffel Tower or the Statue of Liberty."
Not everyone in Catano thinks it will be money well spent, given the city's municipal problems, but officials are trying to win people over by focusing on the future.
The unlikely but impressive journey from Russia to Catano of the monument titled "Birth of the New World" began last February, when Anibal Marrero, the vice president of the Puerto Rico Senate, heard that the statue needed a home. Mr. Marrero, whose district includes Catano, said he thought it fitting that the gift be given to Puerto Rico, an American territory on which, unlike the mainland, Columbus actually set foot during his second voyage in 1493. (Puerto Rico's national anthem includes the lines: "When to its beaches Columbus arrived, with admiration he cried: 'Oh! Oh! Oh! This is the pretty land I'm looking for.' ")
Senator Marrero, who said the statue honored the man's daring spirit rather than his conquest, said he also envisioned new jobs and an economic bonanza for Catano. The city has one of the most majestic waterfront views on the island and is already the site of a popular tourist attraction, the Bacardi rum plant. But it does have problems, Mr. Marrero said, including an unemployment rate of about 13 percent and a disproportionate number of public housing projects.
After enlisting the support of Catano's Mayor, Edwin Rivera Sierra, who earmarked $3 million to bring the statue's parts to the island, the two officials put a project team together and exchanged visits with Mr. Tsereteli, whose large-scale art is found all over Moscow and in cities like New York.
Mr. Tsereteli had presented scale models of the statue to both President Bush and President Clinton and, last September, to the Organization of American States, on the occasion of its 50th anniversary.
The statue depicts Columbus standing at the historically inaccurate wheel of his ship (maritime historians say ships from Columbus's day steered by a bar directly connected to the rudder), his right arm raised in a greeting. Three sails snap in the wind behind him while the three caravels are positioned on a map of the New World at the base.
The statue arrived here in more than 2,500 pieces, some from St. Petersburg, Russia, and some from the United States, where the 11-ton head had unceremoniously languished for six years in a Fort Lauderdale warehouse after South Florida turned the statue down. By contrast, when the head got here last October, a welcoming delegation from Catano was waiting at the dock.
"I feel like a child receiving a gift from Santa Claus," Mayor Rivera Sierra, whose statue-related exploits have been the subject of both ridicule and song, told The San Juan Star as he wiped away tears.
Many of the Mayor's constituents, however, are extremely angry over the statue's cost, which officials plan to cover through a $30 million private bond issue. The officials say Catano would only profit, and any expenses related to the statue would be reimbursed, but residents wonder why a monument is the focus when many of their streets still flood every time it rains and some neighborhoods lack sewage hookups.
"That money should be used for necessities, like more hospital services, more police officers," said Rafael Roman, 84, a Catano native who was talking with friends one recent evening in the town plaza. "That statue is not going to resolve anything sitting there. It's throwing taxpayers' money into the trash can."
Another Catano resident, Luis Ortiz, 47, said, "We're just praying Catano doesn't sink."
But if visits to the park where the statue pieces rest under 24-hour guard are any indication, Catano got itself a hit. Officer Vargas Maldonado said visitors from all over the island had already come looking for "la cabeza de Colon" -- the head of Columbus.
One recent afternoon, several parents with children stopped by. "It's a well-done job," said Marco Prieto, 8, who visited with his father and two brothers. "The Mayor has shown great intelligence."
"The nose has holes and everything," his 12-year-old brother, Giovanni, reported excitedly.
The statue has another enthusiastic ally in Gov. Pedro J. Rossello.
"I just picture an imposing structure at the entrance of San Juan Bay which can be seen by air, sea and land and which will be a landmark in United States territory where Christopher Columbus actually landed," the Governor said.
Assembly by the sculptor and a crew of about 50 Russians is expected to start in mid-1999, pending environmental and other permits. Officials say they had to rush the transportation of the statue before all studies were completed because of the fear that political instability in Russia might prevent a move.
Unveiling is scheduled for the anniversary of the first sighting of the New World, Oct. 12, 2000.
"It's a beautiful monument," Mayor Rivera Sierra said in an interview on Thursday. "I have no doubt it's going to be a success."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a park in Catano, P.R., a bronze head of Christopher Columbus waited to be joined with other pieces in a statue that will rise 30 stories tall. Tourists from across the island have already traveled to see the statue parts. (Ana Martinez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (51%); NEW WORLD WINES (51%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CATANO (PUERTO RICO); PUERTO RICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS SCULPTURE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); BEACHES (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); CRUISES (72%); TOURISM (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); FERRIES (68%); GENOCIDE (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%); RESTAURANTS (63%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (51%); 

PERSON: COLUMBUS, CHRISTOPHER (1451-1506); NAVARRO, MIREYA; TSERETELI, ZURAB K CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS (85%); ANIBAL MARRERO (68%); ZURAB K TSERETELI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



470 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Economists Simply Shrug As Savings Rate Declines

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
Americans should be saving like crazy. Baby boomers -- the oldest in the group of 78 million who were born between 1946 and 1964 are due to retire in a decade or so -- are now in their prime earning years. The after-tax return on investments has rarely been better and the proliferation of 401(k) plans, individual retirement accounts and other tax-favored saving plans has made thrift more painless than ever.
Instead, Americans are saving less than ever. Indeed, according to the latest Government figures, consumers have recently been spending all of their incomes and then some. In September, the personal saving rate slipped below zero for the first time since the Great Depression. October was more of the same. 
 On the surface the reason seems perverse: Economists say the better people feel about their situations these days the less likely they are to set aside extra for the future. The seemingly imperturbable stock market, strong confidence in the economy and the ease of borrowing all make consumers feel richer and less inclined to postpone gratification.
Some experts warn of dire consequences, but the situation may not be as bad as it looks. Despite the drop in personal savings, the broadest measure of saving -- the national saving rate, which includes not just households but corporations and the government sector -- has rebounded from its low in the early 1990's.
"We have a lot of saving now compared to then," said Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution. Investment in the nation's capital base certainly has not suffered. Foreigners have happily sent America their extra savings and seem inclined to continue to do so. Besides, with Asia and Latin America mired in recessions that threaten to spread, Americans' grasshopper habits may -- at least for now -- be more boon than bane.
"This is not the time to tell people to stop spending," said Gregory Mankiw, an economics professor at Harvard.
Finally, the fear that consumers will react to the recent orgy of spending by slamming on the brakes and suddenly turning thrifty seems overblown. Consumers are not as stretched as the saving numbers make it look. Wage and salary income is going up faster, not more slowly, than spending, and that is what most households rely on.
One reason the official savings rate is falling is that interest income, which goes mainly to the rich, has shrunk, dragging down overall reported income gains. But most forecasters agree that each individual's own income, job situation, wealth and confidence loom far larger in household spending decisions.
Of course, many Americans are passing up a chance to get back $2 in eight years for every $1 they save today. That may seem irrational, even for well-off citizens of a wealthy country. "The standard neoclassical view that people make rational trade-offs between present and future and that we're saving the amount that best suits our purpose is obviously wrong," said Robert Frank, an economist at Cornell whose new book, "Luxury Fever," argues that Americans ought to save 20 percent of their incomes.
Moreover, what is good (or at least acceptable) for the nation is not necessarily what is best for the Joneses. Even optimists concede that one- to two-thirds of baby-boomer households are not saving enough to maintain in retirement the life styles to which they are accustomed.
Still, many economists say that focusing on the plunge in personal savings is a bit misleading.
For one thing, the personal saving rate is one of the Government's least reliable statistics. That is because saving is the difference between two very large quantities, overall personal income and overall personal spending. Minuscule changes in either can produce huge changes in the savings rate.
Moreover, revisions based on more complete data sometimes alter the initial impression left by the published statistics. For example, a rigorously researched 1987 paper, co-written by Lawrence H. Summers, now Deputy Treasury Secretary but then teaching at Harvard, attributed half of the drop in national saving at that point to a decline in household savings. But subsequent revisions of the national income accounts showed that the decline they cited had not actually occurred.
It is even harder to interpret the data in a period when households, especially wealthy ones, are reporting big investment profits in the form of capital gains. Last summer, the Government started subtracting capital gains, which are not part of gross domestic product, from personal income. That change, which reflects a shift in accounting practices rather than any real change in behavior, sliced two percentage points off the published saving rate.
None of this is to deny that there have been real changes in savings as well.
As stock prices have risen, lifting the value of assets held by pension funds, corporations have cut contributions to defined benefit pension funds, which pay a set amount based on salary and years of service. With more profit on their investments, corporations do not need to set as much aside to meet their obligations.
Pensions are counted as household saving. John Sabelhouse, a Congressional Budget Office economist, attributes about half the decline in the personal saving rate to the slowdown in pension contributions.
Then, too, consumers have been spending part of their capital gains, especially on big-ticket items like houses, furniture and cars (although not as large a part as historical experience would suggest). More of them have been borrowing, too.
The down-and-out banker in Tom Wolfe's recent best seller "A Man in Full," Ray Peepgas, is maxed out on 18 credit cards and does not know how he will make it through the weekend unless another one arrives in the morning mail. He is a perfect symbol of the credit revolution of the last five years that has allowed borrowers who previously might have been forced to stop running up debt to keep on spending. And credit companies have learned to tailor interest charges so that, while worse risks may have to pay higher rates, they can still usually get credit.
The big fear is that many baby boomers will wind up working a lot longer than they expected because they failed to save enough for retirement. Although experts cannot agree on what fraction of baby boomers is headed for trouble, estimates range from one- to two-thirds. And everyone agrees that middle-class, middle-aged Americans ought to be more worried about the future than they appear to be.
For all the concerns, however, Americans seem better prepared for retirement than the citizens of most other countries. The net financial worth of American households equals nearly four times their income, double that of German households.
Some economists have taken to saying that the saving rate is not as important as they used to think. "If all we did is jack up the saving rate, the economy wouldn't look that different," said Robert Hall at the Hoover Institution in Palo Alto, Calif.
In any case, the dire predictions of the past have not materialized. Interest payments have not in fact ballooned. American managers proved more efficient at deploying savings than their foreign counterparts. The rates of return on American investments abroad are far higher than those on foreign investments in the United States. "There's no question that as a nation, we'd be better off if we saved more," Professor Mankiw said. "But it's not like the day of reckoning is around the corner."

GRAPHIC: Graph "Mixed Signals" tracks saving in the United States as a percent of G.N.P.
(Source: Council of Economic Advisers)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SAVINGS PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US 401K PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



471 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: THE STRATEGY;
U.S. Declares It Might Need More Strikes on Iraq Soon

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration warned today that Iraq might quickly try to rebuild its programs to develop chemical and biological weapons after last week's furious air strikes, and that additional American strikes might be needed soon.
"Obviously it is very hard to say that everything that he has in weapons of mass destruction has been destroyed," Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," referring to President Saddam Hussein of Iraq. 
 "We have said very clearly that we reserve the right to use force again, and I think we've proven our ability to deliver a very tough blow," she said.
Although preliminary damage assessments from the Pentagon showed that fewer than a third of the 97 Iraqi targets attacked last week had been severely damaged or destroyed, military commanders continued to insist that the attack had crippled elements of the Iraqi military and had seriously hampered Mr. Hussein's ability to communicate with his most loyal troops.
Senior Administration officials said today that if additional air strikes were required, they would almost certainly not take place until early next year, after the completion of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which began this weekend.
The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that with the completion of the attacks on Saturday, the Pentagon was reconsidering plans announced last week to send thousands of additional American troops to the region to prevent a possible Iraqi ground strike against Kuwait or Saudi Arabia.
Such an attack, they said, now seems unlikely, although they said American warplanes were expected to remain on high alert in the Persian Gulf region for several weeks.
As the smoke cleared from the most punishing American air strikes against Iraq since the gulf war in 1991, the battle of words between Washington and Baghdad continued, and may even have intensified.
Senior Administration officials took to the Sunday television talk shows to declare that the mission of the air strikes was accomplished, while Mr. Hussein told his people in a televised speech that they wore "the crown of victory" against the American and British attackers.
Both had a point. The United States could justifiably claim that it had met its limited goal of "degrading" Iraq's ability to make chemical or biological weapons and the ballistic missiles needed to deliver them.
Mr. Hussein could claim at least a partial victory simply by surviving another round of intense American-led bombardment, with little sign that his domestic opponents are any closer to ousting him, which the Administration openly desires.
"We consider this a very successful attack," Gen. Henry H. Shelton, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation. "Looking at the targets, I would tell you that our success goes up almost daily as we have a chance to make a more complete assessment."
The Pentagon did not issue an updated assessment today of the overall bomb damage. On Saturday it said American and British forces had struck 100 targets with more than 400 sea- and air-launched cruise missiles and had flown 650 sorties by fighters, bombers and support aircraft.
The Pentagon said the preliminary assessment of the first three days of the four-day attack was able to confirm that air strikes had done some degree of damage to 70 of the 97 targets attacked, although only 28 targets were described as having been either destroyed or severely damaged.
Pentagon officials cautioned that it can often take weeks for the assessments to be completed, and that a target might have been rendered inoperable even when the damage is assessed as light. Damage to 23 of the targets has yet to be assessed.
The assessment provided little specific detail on the targets or their location in Iraq but did break down them down by categories. The report made these points:
*Of the 11 targets that involved production or storage of weapons of mass destruction, none were destroyed, one was severely damaged, five were moderately damaged and four were lightly damaged.
*Of the 18 targets described as installations involved in "security" for the Iraqi program to develop chemical and biological weapons, two were destroyed, five were severely damaged, six were moderately damaged and five were lightly damaged. Among the targets that suffered severe or moderate damage were the barracks of soldiers assigned to guard the installations.
*Of the nine targets that were command centers or other installations for the Republican Guard, the elite military unit that was singled out for attack, none were destroyed, three were severely damaged, five were moderately damaged and one was lightly damaged.
*Of the 20 targets described as command and control centers for the Iraqi Government, including television and radio transmitters, seven were destroyed, four were severely damaged, four were moderately damaged and two were lightly damaged.
* Of the 32 targets that were sites for surface-to-air missiles or air-defense systems, one was destroyed, five were severely damaged, four were moderately damaged and four were lightly damaged.
*Of the six airfields attacked, none were destroyed, none were severely damaged, four were moderately damaged and one was lightly damaged.
The Pentagon said its one "economic" target -- a refinery in southern Iraq that has been linked to oil exports in violation of United Nations sanctions -- was lightly damaged.
General Shelton said the Defense Department was especially pleased with the results of air strikes on nine Iraqi installations for research and development of ballistic missiles that could be used to deliver chemical or biological weapons.
"We don't think he'll be doing any more research and development with his missiles for at least over a year," the general said, referring to Mr. Hussein.
In London, military aides to Prime Minister Tony Blair were even more optimistic in describing the results of the American and British strikes.
Sir Charles Guthrie, chief of the British Defense Staff, told reporters that he believed that Iraq's ability to deliver chemical or biological weapons by missiles or drone aircraft had been set back "by several years."
He said the attacks on the Republican Guard, which was largely kept out of harm's way by Mr. Hussein during the gulf war, had sent "a powerful message: They now know that their cozy existence has been shattered."
"We can reach out and strike them," he said. "The Republican Guard and their sinister inner organizations are the lynchpin of Saddam's grip on power. They defend him personally. They brutally repress all dissent in Iraq, and they control and hide his chemical and biological weapons."
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, also appearing on CBS New, said that the United States believed that Iraq might move quickly to rebuild its program for the production of chemical and biological weapons and that American and British forces would be ready to strike again.
"We understand that he may try to undertake to repair these facilities or rebuild then," Mr. Cohen said. "We're going to maintain our military capability. We're going to continue the sanctions and watch to make sure he doesn't pose a threat to his neighbors or try to reconstitute these weapons of mass destruction."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (68%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (68%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); RAMADAN (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); RELIGION (66%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



472 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: WASHINGTON MEMO;
Market Confidence Is Now Up in the Air

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
As President Clinton stood in the Rose Garden on Saturday afternoon, denouncing the "poisonous venom" of Washington and declaring that "we have a lot to do before we enter the 21st century," a few downcast members of his staff clustered together just beyond the circle of cameras and reporters.
"We may have a lot to do, but that's different from saying anything can get done," one staff member said in a low tone. Immediate crises like Iraq will always get the President's attention, he added. But the test of whether Mr. Clinton's power is ebbing, he said, will come as the President tries to remake Social Security or choke off another bout of global economic turmoil of the kind that, only three months ago, seemed to be taking the United States economy over the edge. 
 As the Senate heads into little-charted terrain in which the President is expected to stand trial, both the economy and Mr. Clinton's powers of persuasion at home and abroad also enter new territory.
So far, the markets have shrugged off Washington's bitter season, rising even as the House of Representatives lurched toward the impeachment vote on Saturday. And Asian markets showed little reaction in the first trading after the vote.
Foreign diplomats here have shown similar lack of alarm. Several said this weekend that they had cabled their capitals advising that Mr. Clinton's impeachment is a particular form of Washington madness, a nasty partisan battle that is likely to distract the United States but not derail its policies.
But market confidence, much like perceptions of American power, is quirky and subject to quick reversal. It was only 19 months ago that investors were still pouring money into Asia, convinced that its astounding growth could not be stopped by an economic bubble or political weakness. It was only a decade ago that Japan was regarded as the world's greatest rising power, despite a fractious government that seemed forever incapable of decisions or action.
Now, all over Washington, there are murmured questions about how a prolonged Senate trial might unnerve markets, affect the economy and undercut belief in America's ability to lead.
"Anybody who tells you that they understand how all this is going to play out in the next few months is kidding themselves," Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said the other day. Another Cabinet official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, noted that President Clinton had been "wrongly written off many times before," and then added that a prolonged trial, "sooner or later -- whether it's dealing with the budget, or the markets, or the Russians -- is going to have a cost. The question is whether it's a big cost."
In some cases, the cost may be fairly evident. The common wisdom, which has often been wrong this year, is that the President has about six months to forge the outlines of a deal to overhaul Social Security. After next summer, the tradeoffs may become so politically difficult that neither party will want to touch it.
A long trial would suck the oxygen out of that debate. "Very little else would go on," Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said on CNN. "The President would be completely consumed."
Just how much will be accomplished depends on the strategies the White House and Congressional Republicans pursue as they try to weather the impeachment process.
In fact, the handling of the global financial crisis and its permutations -- dealing with a collapsing Russian economy, an increasingly recalcitrant China and a new European currency, now only weeks away -- could pose the true test of Mr. Clinton's credibility in both the markets and the world.
Even a weakened President has extraordinary powers in a military challenge of the kind posed during the Iraq crisis over the last week. Bipartisan support is expected, even though several Republican leaders questioned whether Mr. Clinton was using the cruise-missile attacks for political advantage.
But in the far more complicated and subtle realm of trying to shape international economic strategies to restore growth and prevent more social explosions of the kind that rocked Indonesia, there is no such expectation of bipartisan cooperation. Such slow-burn crises require the President to convince both investors and other leaders that his authority is undiminished.
"The sense is that the global markets haven't clicked in on this," Daniel Yergin, the chairman of the consulting group Cambridge Energy Research Associates and author of a recent book on national economic power, said this weekend.
"If the impeachment had happened in October, when even the most senior people in Government were talking about the end of modern capitalism as we know it," he said, "we might be looking at a very different global economic situation today. The requirement at that time was to restore confidence -- and the fact that the world is shrugging off impeachment is evidence that confidence was restored. But the next time, it could be playing with fire."
For example, Mr. Clinton will soon face the question of whether to resume economic aid to Russia. Even for a President at the peak of his game, it would be a difficult choice: Failure to provide aid could lead to charges that he "lost Russia" politically, while providing aid could open him to contentions that he lost billions of dollars propping up a nonfunctioning economy.
Mr. Clinton will also have to decide whether to change tactics with China, which is jailing dissidents and closing markets, just at a time when he had hoped to say that his management of economic and diplomatic relations with the Chinese was his greatest foreign policy achievement.
None of these problems, of course, were relevant in the last impeachment trial, involving the President of a rising power in 1868.
"The Johnson impeachment created no real rumblings about the American scene, except to confirm the European view that American are barbarous and uncouth," said David Donald, the Harvard historian, who has spent a lifetime studying the Civil War and Reconstruction.
"We didn't have to worry about world markets then, or really foreign policy, because there wasn't much foreign policy," Professor Donald concluded. "In almost every sense, it was exactly the reverse of the Clinton impeachment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); ETHICS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); BONDS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



473 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
N.B.A. Players Say a Settlement Is Near

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 20

 BODY:
As if the season were nearing the halfway point, Karl Malone has been running hills, lifting weights and playing pickup games with Utah Jazz teammates. His feelings about the labor dispute resemble those of most of his locked-out peers -- he thinks the owners' offer is fair, and he believes there will be a season.
"It's not even something I'm thinking about, that there might not be a season," Malone said before he and a group of National Basketball Association All-Stars played a game for charity here on Saturday night. "This isn't one of those games where you say, 'This might be the only game we play.' " 
 Tim Hardaway, whose 19 fourth-quarter points led his team to victory, said: "Come on, you know we're going to be playing. It's just a matter of time for them to work things out and take care of business."
Either 430 players are not taking seriously N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern's comments about losing the season, or they know something the rest of America does not, and perhaps a settlement is close.
Stern and Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, waged an Express Mail war last week. After Stern forwarded the league's most recent proposals to the players on Wednesday and Hunter issued a response on Friday, both sides said they were far apart on many key economic issues.
Yet most players who competed in The Game on Showtime on Saturday sounded as if training camps would open by mid-January. To have between a 40- and 50-game season, the season will have to start by the first week of February.
"To me, a deal is just about in place," Malone said. "I was looking at what Stern sent to us in the mail. It's a fair deal, but some things still need to happen for us to accept it."
Malone said that the majority of the players would probably accept the owners' proposal, a statement that could hurt the union's leverage as it heads for the final stages of negotiations. To which Hunter replied, "Karl has his own opinion."
An agreement would not be voted on by the union's general body until the players' negotiating committee approved the deal. And it should be noted that Malone's public musings have been more provocative than substantive. He had said that he would not play in Utah again, but recanted a few days later.
But his comments reflect a feeling among players that the owners and players will figure out how to divide the league's $2 billion in annual revenue before the season is lost.
Stern has left for Aspen, Colo., and plans to spend at least a few days at his vacation home. Hunter is expected to leave for his home in Oakland, Calif., early this week. Neither union nor league lawyers expected more talks before Christmas.
During a Dec. 12 negotiation, the players made a major concession by suggesting a $10 million limit on the amount paid to players with less than seven years of experience -- Kevin Garnett, who was the fifth pick in the 1995 draft, is scheduled to make about $14 million this season. But the owners are still trying to limit high-end salaries. While both sides are close on other issues, they cannot agree on the percentage at which an escrow system would be triggered. The players' lowest offer is believed to be 56 percent, and the owners are at 53.5 percent.
Meanwhile, a group of current and former All-Stars played one of the few organized games since last season. Some, like Shawn Kemp and Patrick Ewing, appeared a month away from N.B.A. game shape. Others, like Hardaway, Malone and Reggie Miller, looked as if they could play 48 minutes today.
"It was nice to finally get up and down the court and see some fans in the stands again," Hardaway said. "No question, it will take a while to get all of them back after this is over. But we'll do what we have to do to get it done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glen Rice shooting over Dominique Wilkins as Karl Malone and Patrick Ewing looked to rebound Saturday. (Bedel Saget/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); UTAH JAZZ (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); UTAH JAZZ (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (94%); ATHLETES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); WEIGHTLIFTING (78%); LOCKOUTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



474 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: THE OVERVIEW;
This Time, Little Damage Is to Be Seen in Baghdad

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 20

 BODY:
The last bomb to fall on Baghdad during the 70-hour campaign that ended on Saturday night destroyed a wing of the Labor and Social Affairs Ministry, and by midday today hundreds of people had come to view the damage.
Repair crews were already at work. A phalanx of Kawasaki bulldozers plowed debris into piles and lifted it onto trucks to be carted away. Souvenir-seekers picked through the rubble in search of shrapnel. 
 Most laborers and onlookers called the bombing a barbaric and criminal act and bitterly condemned President Clinton for ordering it. That was no surprise, not only because Iraq has endured years of economic sanctions and military attacks, but also because political dissent here can be -- and often is -- punished by summary execution.
A 21-year-old Jordanian who is studying at Baghdad University offered a somewhat more balanced assessment.
"Both countries lost," the student, Hasan al-Atoun, said as he looked over the piles of shattered brick and glass. "Iraq lost because it suffered terrible damage like this. America lost because it hurt its relations with Russia, the Arab world and many other countries."
Foreign diplomats who hurried to file reports to their governments today argued among themselves over why the ministry was hit. Some said it had been used as an intelligence center and speculated that sensitive documents might have been stored there. Others guessed that the real target was a military academy across the street.
Such speculation was especially intense because in contrast to earlier allied raids, relatively few bombs fell on Baghdad in this latest campaign, and there is little damage to see. Most of the attacks were on positions elsewhere in the country.
Preliminary Western assessments of the damage suggested that the bombing was effective. Those reports gained some credence when the Iraqi Government failed to invite foreign journalists to view destroyed targets. In the past they have shown off what appeared to be homes and other civilian buildings that had been hit.
A British military officer, speaking in Kuwait, said 600 aircraft missions had been flown in the last week, including 50 by British planes.
Most of the missions were support sorties to get bombers to their targets, said the officer, Group Commander Bryan Collins. He added that about 400 cruise missiles had struck Iraq, fired at some 100 targets.
But even if the raids were successful in destroying Iraqi military bases and centers where chemical and biological weapons may have been developed there is no sign that they came anywhere close to achieving the West's larger political objective of removing President Saddam Hussein.
Mr. Hussein, whose Government the United States and Britain are determined to crush, emerged at least as powerful as he was before the raids. He won the sympathy of France, Russia and China, all permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. And Palestinians in the West Bank and demonstrators in Yemen, Syria and Jordan have poured into the streets to support him.
"As a military operation it was perfect, a textbook case," said one foreign envoy here. "Important targets were hit, no planes were lost and there was little or no collateral damage.
"But this was not just a military operation. The real purpose was to weaken the regime, but he's stronger than ever now. He's a hero among the so-called Arab masses because he defied the Americans. Which despotic leader has survived so long in a war situation?"
Life in Baghdad was barely disrupted by the bombing.
Today a grocer named Abdul Gesan stood in his shop and said that compared with what he had seen as a soldier in the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980's and the invasion of Kuwait in 1990, this had been "no more frightening than rain."
"The American people are good, but the leaders are bad," Mr. Gesan said. "They are cowboys. It is all about Monica."
On one Iraqi television broadcast, an announcer said it was no coincidence that the bombing had ended as soon as the Congressional vote on President Clinton's impeachment had been taken. On another, President Hussein appeared personally to thank his people for helping him win what he called his latest confrontation with "enemies of God and humanity."
"You were up to the level that your leadership and your brother and comrade Saddam Hussein had hoped you would be," he said. "God has rewarded you and delighted your hearts with the sweetness of victory."
During his broadcast, Mr. Hussein was dressed in military fatigues. It was only one of the many personas he assumes. The hundreds of portraits of him that are painted on walls here, many of them larger than life, show him in almost every imaginable guise.
In some he is jowly and patriarchal, in others dashing and movie-star handsome. One shows him earnest and looking very young, dressed in a blue suit as if posing for a high school yearbook picture. Another depicts him as the benevolent father, a wedding ring on his finger and an adorable little girl on his knee.
In one of the oddest, he grins widely and wears a Panama hat, sunglasses and a white shirt open to the waist, looking as if he should be sipping an exotic drink at a tropical resort.
"They bomb us, but our Saddam Hussein is still here," said a man selling pine saplings on one of Baghdad's main streets. "Do you understand now why we say we love him?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Al Ahrar Bridge in the center of Baghdad, a man and his son watched boats go by yesterday as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened. (Associated Press); Most of the explosives hurled at Iraq struck outside the capital. Nearly 300 miles from Baghdad, in the southern part of the country, masons worked yesterday to repair the main post office in the port city of Basra. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); YEMEN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); YEMEN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MISSILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); JOURNALISM (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); KINZER, STEPHEN SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



475 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Zambia Announces Deal to Sell Copper Mines

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Dec. 20

 BODY:
After two years of on-and-off negotiations, a deal to sell state-owned copper mines in Zambia has finally been reached, the Finance Minister has announced.
The Anglo American Corporation of South Africa will take over the important Nchanga, Nkana and Konkola mines, Finance Minister Edith Nawakwi said on Friday. 
 Copper is Zambia's most important industry and earns 56 percent of its export earnings. At independence in 1964, copper made the country, then Northern Rhodesia, one of Africa's richest nations. But decades of falling copper prices and Government failure to invest in technology turned the mines into a burden on the state. Recently, they were estimated to be losing $1 million a day.
The state-owned copper company, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, is the centerpiece of the aggressive privatization program started by President Frederick T. Chiluba after his election in 1991, when the state owned 80 percent of the economy. It was put up for sale two years ago, but there have been many disputes along the way. Instead of bidding against one another, the buyers -- including Phelps Dodge of the United States, Noranda of Canada, the Commonwealth Development Corporation of Britain and Anglovaal of South Africa -- formed a consortium to make a unified bid for several mines and their associated smelters and power companies.
Talks ended in May with the Government seeking $500 million and the consortium offering $131 million.
The Government accused the companies of trying to grab Zambia's greatest asset at a fire-sale price. The consortium countered that the mines, smelters and equipment were so old that they would need billions of dollars in new investment.
Falling copper prices made other companies back out of deals for lesser mines. Political uncertainty made matters worse; the copper belt is on the border with Congo, which in the middle of a civil war, and Mr. Chiluba's Government has become increasingly repressive.
As foreign donors told Zambia it would get no more aid until the mines were sold, Anglo American, which already owned 27 percent of the state copper company, stepped in.
The Associated Press said the deal includes an agreement to keep paying for the high-quality schools, hospitals and water systems that mining communities enjoy. The copper belt region, including some of the country's biggest cities, depends on them.
The state will retain 20 percent of the new company. Anglo has agreed to pay $10 million in royalties and dividends on profits and eventually to invest $1.1 billion in upgrading the mines. It was not clear how many miners would be laid off.
If copper prices ever rise, the deal could be a rich one. The Konkola mine is estimated to have deep ore bodies that could last 100 years and are three times as concentrated as those of American mines -- but it will cost more than $600 million to get to them.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ANAAL (JSE) (94%); AAM (SWX) (94%); AAL (LSE) (94%); ZCC (LSE) (90%); MLZAM (PAR) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (94%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (90%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); 

COUNTRY: ZAMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); CANADA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); 

COMPANY: ANGLO AMERICAN CORP OF SOUTH AFRICA ANGLO AMERICAN PLC (94%); ZCCM INVESTMENTS HOLDINGS PLC (90%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANGLO AMERICAN CORP OF SOUTH AFRICA

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAMBIA; ZAMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); CANADA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MINES AND MINING COPPER MINING (94%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); METAL ORE MINING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR FREDERICK T CHILUBA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



476 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Region's Democrats Vow to Punish G.O.P. for Impeachment

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Even before Representative Rick A. Lazio, a Republican from Suffolk County, had a chance to announce last week that he would vote for impeachment, the first threats against his political future were thundering out of state Democratic headquarters.
"There is no escaping accountability on the impeachment issue," Judith Hope, the chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee, said in a statement on Tuesday that singled out Mr. Lazio. "Any Representative who casts a vote in support of impeaching the President will be forced to defend their decision in 2000 and beyond." 
 The near party-line vote to impeach President Clinton on Saturday may have left a cloud over the President, but it has also, in the minds of many Democrats, handed their party a powerful political cudgel that could win them back the majority in Congress two years from now.
Buoyed by public opinion polls indicating that the President, or at least his policies, remains in favor, particularly in the Northeast, and that the Republican Party is increasingly unpopular, Democrats are already planning ways to use impeachment against Republicans.
"We believe that this is such an important issue that people will remember in two years," said Robert Ives, executive director of the Connecticut State Democratic Committee. He said the party was already laying plans to hammer Representative Nancy Johnson, a moderate Republican from New Britain, Conn., for voting to impeach the President.
"She followed the Newt Gingrich line of, 'Let's get the President,' " Mr. Ives said. "She has proven once again that her vote is not her own."
Like many Republicans who supported impeachment, Mrs. Johnson predicted that her constituents would not punish her at the polls for casting a vote that was based on her moral convictions and legal concerns.
"I don't think people are thinking about this as Republican and Democrat," she said. "They are thinking about it as citizens of this country."
In 1996, Mr. Clinton won handily in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and Democratic leaders are convinced that the majority of the electorate in those states is bitterly opposed to his impeachment.
The Democrats also contend that anti-impeachment fervor helped bring down two Republican incumbents from the region last month: Representative Michael Pappas of Rocky Hill, N.J., who had lavishly praised Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, who had spearheaded the Senate Republicans' Whitewater investigation.
After his defeat, Mr. D'Amato declared that impeachment would be damaging to the Republican Party, a message echoed by two other prominent New York Republicans, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki.
But the central question for Democrats is whether voters really care deeply enough about the issue to let it color their decisions in the election two years from now. Republican leaders and consultants contend that Mr. Clinton's popularity is wide but thin, and could dissipate quickly if the economy turns downward or he is implicated in new scandals.
"Impeachment is almost certain to be overtaken by events in the next 22 months," said Kieran Mahoney, a political adviser to both Mr. D'Amato and Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Mahoney acknowledged that impeachment could be a serious political problem for Republicans, but more likely in a primary election, where conservative voters tend to dominate and a candidate's vote against impeachment might prompt a challenge from the right. Polls show that a large number of Republicans support impeachment.
It is not clear whether the Republicans from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut who voted for impeachment heeded the advice of consultants like Mr. Mahoney, or bent to pressure from their conservative leadership, as Democrats asserted, or simply followed their consciences, as all said they would.
In the end, only 3 of the 21 House Republicans from the region voted against impeachment: Christopher Shays of Stamford, Conn., Peter T. King of Nassau County and Amo Houghton of Corning, N.Y. All three said Mr. Clinton's behavior had not met their definitions of an impeachable offense.
None of the three seem to be in imminent political danger because of their votes. Mr. King has a strongly conservative voting record and would remain difficult to beat in a primary. Mr. Houghton is a respected figure in his district, where his family runs Corning Industries. And Mr. Shays comes from a proudly centrist Republican district where he generally wins going away every two years.
Still, Mr. Shays rejected the idea that voters would forget about impeachment quickly, saying it could be a powerful and unpredictable force in 2000. "Voters will remember," he said. "That's unavoidable. And frankly, it's called the democratic system. Controversy is generally thought of as the enemy of the incumbent, and there was lots of controversy."
Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, a Republican from Glens Falls, N.Y., who voted for impeachment, disagreed. "I think most all of the members win by substantial margins," he said. "That means they have considerable trust placed in them by their voters, and the voters are going to take their word for what they do, even if they don't agree."
Indeed, a number of Republicans who voted for impeachment come from districts that are safely enough Republican to make an electoral backlash in 2000 seem unlikely. They included Sherwood L. Boehlert from Utica, Vito J. Fossella from Staten Island, Marge Roukema from Ridgewood, N.J., and Rodney P. Frelinghuysen from Morristown.
But a few come from evenly mixed, politically volatile districts. New York's First Congressional district on the East End of Long Island, for instance, had a Democratic Representative for many years before Michael P. Forbes won in an upset during the Republican tide of 1994. Mr. Forbes has never been comfortable with the conservative Republicans who run Congress and has had a friendly relationship with Mr. Clinton. But he still voted for impeachment, and Democrats say they will make him pay for it.
"At our our holiday party, people were already talking to me about finding a strong candidate to run in the First Congressional District," said Ms. Hope, the state Democratic chairwoman.
Voting for impeachment may cause bigger problems for Republicans who want to run for statewide office. Mr. Lazio, for instance, is interested in filling Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's seat when he retires in 2000. His vote for impeachment might help him in a Republican primary, particularly against someone like Mr. Giuliani, who opposed impeachment. But Mr. Lazio's vote is also likely to turn at least some Democrats against him in a general election in New York, where Democrats outnumber Republicans 3 to 2.
Mr. Lazio has repeatedly said that he never included political calculations in his consideration of impeachment. But at least one of his potential Democratic rivals warned that his vote might have put his political life in peril.
"The assumption in putting politics over the will of the people is that the people will forget in two years," said Andrew M. Cuomo, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who is also thinking of running for the Senate in 2000. "I think that is a very bad assumption." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES IMPEACHMENT (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ETHICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



477 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: After the Attack on Iraq

 BODY:
Initial Pentagon assessments of the four-day air campaign against Iraq suggest that Saddam Hussein suffered heavy but not irretrievable losses. It may take Iraq as long as a year to restore its ability to deliver biological and chemical weapons against potential targets in the Middle East. If that estimate holds up, the time should be used to reinforce diplomatic support for sanctions and future military action, if needed. It should also be used, if possible, to reconstitute an effective program of inspections and monitoring of weapons facilities inside Iraq. Baghdad's current refusal to allow meaningful United Nations inspections may not be the last word on the subject.
The United States and Britain should maintain sufficient forces in the area to attack Iraq again if it threatens its neighbors, expands its arsenal of mass destruction weapons or rebuilds the missiles used to carry them. But new air strikes should not be launched absent clear justification and careful diplomatic preparation. As President Clinton noted Saturday, American strategy is built around maintaining U.N. Security Council support for effective economic sanctions to retard Iraqi rebuilding efforts. That will require demonstrating to countries like Russia and China, which protested the latest air strikes, that America continues to rely chiefly on diplomatic and economic pressures. 
 Opposition from Arab countries was relatively subdued. But that response should not be taken for granted. Mr. Hussein has largely isolated himself in the Arab world through his provocative behavior. But Washington cannot afford to be reckless in the use of military power or indifferent to the loss of Arab lives. The Clinton Administration must press Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, to honor his commitments to make additional West Bank withdrawals and take other steps toward completing a negotiated peace with the Palestinians.
Last week's air strikes were aimed not just at Iraqi weapons programs but also at weakening Mr. Hussein's rule. Allied missiles and aircraft attacked presidential palaces, the headquarters of the ruling Baath Party and the barracks of elite security forces like the Republican Guard. These were legitimate targets since they have all been involved in Iraqi attempts to conceal biological and chemical weapons or missile production. But Washington should not delude itself into thinking that such attacks will pave the way for a revolt that topples Mr. Hussein. His rule is too well entrenched and opposition forces are too weak and divided for that to be a realistic possibility anytime soon. Diplomatic and economic pressure, backed by the continuing threat of American military force, is the most effective way to manage the Iraqi weapons threat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



478 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: THE FUTURE;
Now U.N. Is Left to Ponder Inspections and Sanctions

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 20

 BODY:
After four days of air strikes against Iraq, the Security Council plans on Monday to begin assessing the damage done to all three legs on which its relations with Baghdad stand -- economic sanctions, arms inspections and a relief program intended to aid Iraqis suffering under an economic embargo.
With President Clinton under impeachment and American attention diverted from the coming days and weeks of debate in the Council, the British and French are expected to take the lead. 
 The difficulty the Council faces is that more than eight years of painstakingly negotiated resolutions have linked the sanctions, inspections and "oil for food" plan in a cat's cradle of demands and restrictions that will be hard to separate.
The first step might be a full review of United Nations relations with Iraq, diplomats here say, although even that is likely to be put off until the new year.
Baghdad has long sought such a review, which may now be the only route to finding a consensus on how to deal with President Saddam Hussein now that he has said, again, that he will no longer work with arms inspectors under the existing system.
After the latest campaign of bombing and missile strikes, a review may create new pitfalls for the United States and Britain, which were hoping that such a hearing might buttress their case to leave sanctions in place.
The sanctions, particularly an embargo limiting the sale of Iraqi oil, have been a prime tool of the United States in keeping Iraq isolated and Mr. Hussein parted from revenue that could be put toward rebuilding Iraq's weapons programs.
Already support for the sanctions, long challenged on humane grounds, appears to have eroded further. Today in Paris, President Jacques Chirac of France called for a prompt lifting of the oil embargo. His country's major oil companies have for years been eager to return to work in Iraq, although record low oil prices make this less attractive now.
Russia is expected to share the French position on lifting the oil embargo, which is directly linked to certification by the United Nations Special Commission, known as Un scom, charged since 1991 with disarming Iraq, that there are no more prohibited arms or the means to make them.
So while Mr. Chirac said in a statement that it was time for a "fundamental review" of relations with Iraq, he also underscored that it must proceed from the understanding that arms controls will continue, along with some supervision of Iraqi expenditures from the sale of oil.
"The international community must be able to carry out effective monitoring of Iraqi arms and any development of them," Mr. Chirac said. "This means fresh organization, fresh methods."
Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov of Russia was also looking ahead. Today in New Delhi, where he is on an official visit, he said his concern was that a political solution be found so that air strikes would not be repeated.
No member of the Security Council is willing to say categorically that Iraq has answered all outstanding questions regarding its banned arms programs, but Russia and France, with growing support from Council members like Brazil and Kenya, have argued that all of the missing pieces may never be found.
These members are beginning to agree that it is time to close the books on active, kick-down-the-doors inspections and switch to long-term monitoring. That would mean lifting the oil embargo.
The International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors nuclear programs around the world and is composed largely of career international bureaucrats, has already laid the groundwork for closing the nuclear file, which has made it very popular with the Iraqis.
Baghdad now demands that if inspections of any kind are to resume, the United Nations Special Commission must be restructured to be more like the atomic agency. If that is done, some diplomats say they believe that Iraq can be persuaded to agree to some kind of monitoring.
But independent arms control experts say such inspection would be meaningless, and in any case Iraqi leaders said again last week that sanctions have to end first.
While the Clinton Administration understands that sanctions cannot be sustained forever, it still argues -- in increasing isolation here -- that Iraq has to do even more than account for all of its weapons before they can be lifted.
At the center of the inspection debate is Richard Butler, the executive chairman of the Special Commission. Iraq has made clear for more than a year that it does not want to work with him. Last week Russia formally called for his dismissal.
Now, even among Mr. Butler's supporters, there are those who ask whether inspections can ever resume in a hostile Iraq with him in charge and whether pragmatism might not dictate that he be replaced.
In an interview on Saturday, Mr. Butler said allowing the Iraqis to emerge from a bombing campaign free of international supervision of their weapons programs or with a new system tailored to their demands "just doesn't make sense." Publicly, the United States supports Mr. Butler completely.
But Scott Ritter, the former concealment expert who quit the Special Commission in August in disgust at American policy, said the Clinton Administration had weakened Mr. Butler time and again.
He said the most recent incident came last week, when White House officials put pressure on Mr. Butler to release his latest report on Iraqi noncompliance, so that it could be used as the trigger for military action.
"They decided to use Richard Butler and Unscom in this fashion," Mr. Ritter said, "and now they have to pay the price."
The problem that Washington and others face now is how to continue policing and undermining Mr. Hussein's hope of a renewed weapons program without sanctions or effective inspections. And if sanctions go, the "oil for food" program will go with them, unless another system is devised to control how Iraq spends its oil money.
The Iraqis rejected for almost five years the offer of the "oil for food" plan, under which they now pump 1.8 billion barrels of oil a day and can buy a wide range of goods and equipment with it under United Nations supervision. The program has been severely disrupted in the last week because of the military strikes.
All Security Council members acknowledge that Mr. Hussein, who has always been permitted to import medicine and food, chose not to. And despite the embargo, huge quantities of marble found their way to Iraq for dozens of presidential palaces, the Baghdad police got new Korean cars, officials of Mr. Hussein's party bought computers and smugglers stocked stores in fashionable neighborhoods with Western consumer goods.
Unrestricted new income, many diplomats here fear, now more than ever, would be sunk directly into rebuilding weapons.

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq shows location of Baghdad: Baghdad's negotiating position with the United Nations seems stronger.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FOREIGN AID; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INSPECTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



479 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
U.S. Says It May Need More Strikes on Iraq
The Clinton Administration warned that Iraq might quickly try to rebuild its programs to develop chemical and biological weapons after the air strikes last week, and that additional American strikes might be needed soon. But Administration officials said that if additional air strikes were required, they would probably not occur until early next year. A12 

Baghdad appeared to avoid heavy damage in the raids, and life there was barely disrupted. Most of the attacks were on positions elsewhere in Iraq. Although preliminary Western assessments suggested that the bombing was effective, it also appeared that President Saddam Hussein emerged at least as powerful as he was before the attacks. A1
 
The United Nations Security Council plans today to begin assessing the damage done to the three legs on which it bases its relations with Baghdad -- economic sanctions, arms inspections and a relief program designed to aid Iraqis suffering under an economic embargo. A13
 
Prime Minister Tony Blair delivered a tough-talking assessment of the air attacks on Iraq, urging doubters and critics to understand the new "global reality" that modern diplomacy must be backed up by force. He used a televised address both to list the mission's accomplishments and to put forth an earnest justification of the raids and the need to be prepared to stage more. A13
 
Chinese Dissident Sentenced
A Chinese court today sentenced Xu Wenli, a prominent dissident, to 13 years in prison, accusing him of trying to subvert state power by organizing an opposition party to challenge the ruling Communist Party. A11
 
Germany Extradites Suspect
Germany handed over Mamdouh Mahmud Salim to American officials in Munich. Federal officials say Mr. Salim, 40, is a top aide to Osama bin Laden, who has been accused of being the leader of the group that bombed two American Embassies in Africa in August. A7
 
Zambia Sells Stake in Copper
A deal to sell state-owned copper mines in Zambia has been reached after two years of negotiations, the Finance Minister announced. The Anglo American Corporation of South Africa will take over the important Nchanga, Nkana and Konkola mines, but Zambia will retain a 20 percent interest. A9
 
Dissident Soldiers in Mexico
Several dozen dissident Mexican soldiers, led by a lieutenant colonel, have emerged to issue public criticism of Government economic policies and civilian control of the military, as well as of reputed abuses by military courts. A5
 
German Jew's Grave Vandalized
A bomb destroyed the gravestone of Heinz Galinski, the former head of Germany's main Jewish organization, the police said. Politicians condemned the act and expressed concern about anti-Semitism. A6
 
NATIONAL A14-27
 
Parties in Senate Split On Issue of Need for Trial
Senators from both parties pledged to restore civility to the impeachment proceedings even as they quickly divided largely along party lines over whether President Clinton must face a Senate trial or could be subject to censure. A1
 
President Clinton has adopted a two-track approach to his pending impeachment trial in the Senate, preparing to mount a vigorous legal defense while seeking to reach a compromise on a resolution of condemnation that would let him keep his job, White House officials said. A1
 
A New York Times/CBS News Poll found that a majority of Americans believe that President Clinton should not have been impeached. But now that he has been, they believe that impeachment is punishment enough and the matter should be dropped. Most also want the Senate to resolve the case without a trial and without removing Mr. Clinton from office. His popularity is as high as it has ever been, while the standing of Republicans continues to plummet. A23
 
Thirteen Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee have been appointed managers -- or official prosecutors -- for the Senate trial. A22
 
Saving Rate Declines
Consumers have recently been spending all of their incomes and then some, Government data show. In September, the personal saving rate slipped below zero for the first time since the Great Depression, and in October it was more of the same, alarming some economists. A14
 
First Surviving Set of 8 Babies
A 27-year-old woman in Houston became the mother of the first known surviving set of octuplets. A16
 
City's Homeless Deaths Rise
A review of medical examiner's data has determined that 157 homeless people died in San Francisco in the last 12 months, more than in any year since tracking began in 1985. A18
 
2 Charged as Sea Search Ends
The Coast Guard called off the search for 6 people missing since a speedboat carrying 21 Cuban refugees capsized near Miami on Thursday. The bodies of eight people have been recovered. Two men have been charged with alien smuggling. A18
 
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Democrats Plan to Use Impeachment as a Weapon
Democratic strategists in the Northeast believe that the near party-line vote to impeach President Clinton -- coupled with public opinion polls showing that the President, or at least his policies, remain in favor among voters -- will provide the Democratic Party with a powerful weapon that could win back control of Congress in the 2000 elections. B1
 
Fire Alarm Was Delayed
A 67-year-old woman who dropped a cigarette onto her couch and started a fire in Brooklyn that claimed the lives of three firefighters delayed calling the Fire Department for as long as 20 minutes while she tried to douse the flames with teapots full of water, investigators said. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B3
 
ARTS E1-8
Wanted: Poet Laureate
Some of Britain's higher-profile poets are not interested in becoming poet laureate, though others are gently letting it be known that if appointed, they would serve. The most frequently mentioned candidate is Andrew Motion, a professor, poet, critic and biographer. E1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
Giants Stay in Contention
The Giants beat the Kansas City Chiefs, 28-7, keeping New York's playoff hopes alive despite a 7-8 record. D1
 
Patriots and Bills in Playoffs
The New England Patriots clinched a wild-card berth by beating the San Francisco 49ers, 24-21, on a late field goal. The Buffalo Bills, who were idle, earned a wild-card spot because of the Tennessee Oilers' 30-22 loss to the Green Bay Packers. D3
 
OBITUARIES B9-10
 
Antonio Ordonez
A leading bullfighter in the 1950's and the last survivor of the dueling matadors chronicled by Hemingway in "The Dangerous Summer," he was 66. B9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-8
 
Networks and Nielsen Feuding
Reports of a drastic falloff in the 18- to 34-year-old television audience this season have touched off an angry debate between the networks and Nielsen Media Research. C1
 
New Radio Technology Studied
The F.C.C. is considering changing its regulations to permit the use of a new technology whose applications include wireless voice and high-speed data communications, land mine detection and radar systems that could let law officers see through walls or could aid cars in avoiding collisions. C1
 
Warning on E-Mail Virus
Computer security experts are warning clients about a new virus that is spread by E-mail, infects Microsoft Word files and has already caused several networks to crash. C2
 
Disagreement Over Forecasts
The Japanese Government said it expected the economy to show modest growth -- five-tenths of a percent in the gross domestic product for the year beginning in April -- though that is at odds with predictions from private economists, who see more difficulty ahead. C6
 
Stocks Slip in Japan
Stocks were lower in Tokyo today. At midday, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 126.89 points, or 0.89 percent, at 14,067.40.
(Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Censure stirrings in the Senate; after the attack on Iraq; Gail Collins on the brave new world of sex-drenched politics.
 Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
Metro Diary B2
Crossword E7
Weather B10

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ANAAL (JSE) (81%); AAM (SWX) (81%); AAL (LSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (81%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ZAMBIA (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: ANGLO AMERICAN PLC (81%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ZAMBIA (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXTRADITION (87%); SENTENCING (86%); COPPER MINING (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); PRISONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); VANDALISM (71%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (69%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); MILITARY COURTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); CEMETERIES (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (52%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%); TONY BLAIR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



480 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Terror Suspect Sent to U.S.
Germany extradited a man suspected of playing a key role in the organization that the United States says bombed its embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August. Page A7.
 
Drop in Saving Not So Bad?
Americans are saving less. Some experts are worried, but others say this is not the time to urge consumers to rein in spending. Page A14. 

Uganda's Fight for Congo
There is a certain touchiness among Ugandan soldiers about why they are fighting Congolese rebels, although Uganda insists it simply wants to protect its border. Page A8.
 
Dissident Is Sentenced
A Chinese court sentenced a prominent dissident to 13 years in prison, a human rights group said. Page A11.
 
Chile Navigates a Slump
Chile's economy is stumbling, mostly because copper exports have been hurt by the Asian crisis. Page A10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (93%); CHILE (92%); GERMANY (90%); KENYA (90%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%); CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (93%); CHILE (92%); GERMANY (90%); KENYA (90%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (90%); SENTENCING (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998



481 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Trade Surplus Falls in Japan

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Japan's trade surplus declined in November for the first time in 20 months, but economists said that it would stay large and that concerns about trade friction with the United States would persist until Japan's economy fully recovered.
The Ministry of Finance said today that Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus for November fell 15.1 percent from a year earlier to 902.1 billion yen ($7.84 billion), while the politically sensitive trade surplus with the United States rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier to 488.2 billion yen ($4.2 billion). 
 Economists said the effects of the yen's sharp rise since early October and a slowdown of the global economy made a dent in Japan's exports, with exports to the United States declining for the first time in 32 months, by 7.1 percent. Various factors caused the decline, including "Japanese economic conditions, currency market movements, movements in crude oil prices and in other international markets," a Finance Ministry official told reporters.
Japan's imports in November fell 11.9 percent from a year earlier to 2.787 trillion yen ($24.1 billion), posting the 11th consecutive month of declines.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (51%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



482 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
German Exports Fell in the 3d Quarter

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WIESBADEN, Germany, Dec. 21

 BODY:
German exports plunged in the third quarter from the second quarter as recessions in Japan and Russia eroded demand for autos, chemicals and machinery made in Europe's largest economy.
Germany's annual export growth slowed to 3.1 percent in the third quarter from a 10 percent increase in the second quarter and a 15.9 percent increase in the first quarter. The biggest losses were seen in trade with Russia and Japan, with exports dropping 26.6 percent and 12 percent, respectively. 
 German exporters, which have driven growth in Europe's largest economy for most of the last two years, have seen orders and prices for their goods decline amid recessions in Japan and Russia. Herbert Hax, a German Government economic adviser, warned that slowing exports to Asia and Russia would produce a "clear weakening of economic growth" next year in Germany.
The report showed that rising exports to the United States and the 15-nation European Union were sustaining the German economy as it prepared to begin a single currency with 10 of its neighbors on Jan. 1. Exports to the European Union rose 5.1 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, and climbed 5.4 percent to the countries in the single currency. Exports to the United States increased 11.5 percent, while exports to China were up 13.1 percent.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: HESSE, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; RUSSIA; JAPAN; GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



483 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
I.M.F. Cuts World Growth Outlook to 2.2%

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund lowered its projection for 1999 world economic growth today for the second time in three months, citing deteriorating situations in Japan, Russia and Latin America.
The I.M.F. predicted that economic output worldwide would increase by 2.2 percent in 1999, down from the 2.5 percent it predicted in a similar survey late in September, according to an interim outlook. The prospects for sustained growth are also dimmed by an expected plunge in capital flows to emerging markets, to $90 billion, next year, down from the $130 billion projected in September, the I.M.F. said. 
 "While the danger of a global recession does seem to have diminished, the supply of funds to most emerging-market economies is still sharply reduced, and conditions in financial markets remain fragile," the report said. "It would therefore be premature to consider the difficulties to be over."
The I.M.F., which in the last 16 months has put together rescue packages totaling $187 billion to restore confidence in emerging markets, singled out Japan for concern. It said that Japan, which it considers central in pulling East Asia out of a steep recession because of the size of its economy, would contract five-tenths of a percent next year, down from growth of five-tenths of a percent that the fund initially estimated. On Sunday, Japan's Economic Planning Agency forecast slight growth for the fiscal year beginning in April.
Flemming Larsen, deputy director of the I.M.F.'s research department, said, "The key message in the report is that the worst of this crisis is probably behind us." Still, he said, "We do not believe as yet we are completely out of the woods."
The monetary fund's projections assume a recession next year in Brazil, the world's ninth-largest economy, as the Government there tries to reduce spending and increase taxes to meet conditions of a $41.5 billion international aid package.
In February, a team from the fund is to examine the progress made by the Government in repairing the economy, Michael Mussa, its research director, noted.
The fund was more encouraged about the world's two largest economic blocs, saying that the continued muscle of the United States and of European Union economies after a wave of interest-rate cuts would push up this year's world growth to 2.2 percent from the 2 percent it first projected. The I.M.F. said 1997 growth was 4.2 percent.
Yet the United States economy will grow only 1.8 percent next year, down from 2 percent forecast in September, while growth in the European Union will slow to 2.2 percent in 1999, down from September's estimate of 2.5 percent.
Events, of course, can overtake I.M.F. forecasts. This year's world growth estimate is 1.3 percentage points below what the fund predicted a year ago. And after currency crises broke out in much of Asia in 1997, the I.M.F. predicted that Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia would escape recessions. Now, all those economies are shrinking, ranging from 7 percent contraction in South Korea to 15.3 percent in Indonesia.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; EUROPEAN UNION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; EUROPEAN UNION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION EMERGING MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



484 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries' Prices Falter As Stocks Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell for a second time in three sessions yesterday, pushing yields to a three-week high as rising prices for stocks from New York to Hong Kong dimmed the allure of less risky Treasuries.
"Stocks are strong enough to keep pressure on the bond," said Roger Early, who helps manage $2.5 billion at Delaware Investments in Philadelphia. 
 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 29/32 , to 102 31/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.06 percent, from 5.00 percent on Friday. Yields on two-year notes, the most actively traded Government securities, also rose 6 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.51 percent.
Investors are not buying Treasuries because there is less need for safety after the United States halted its bombings of Iraq. Traders also shunned bonds amid optimism that President Clinton will stay in office, and amid speculation that a foreign central bank sold notes.
Bonds fell as stocks in the United States, Hong Kong and most major markets in Europe climbed, sapping demand for Treasuries as safer investments.
"It looks like a more risk-friendly atmosphere," said Richard Kasmin, an economist at Warburg Dillon Read. "When things calm down in the political spectrum, the stock market can do better," he said, and that can hurt bonds.
Still, some investors said that losses in Treasuries would likely be limited by the prospect of a slowing United States economy and benign inflation in coming months. Subdued inflation means that bonds will hold more of their value.
Even so, low inflation and slowing growth are not expected to prompt the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates for a fourth time this year when its rate-setting panel meets today, analysts said. A survey of 31 primary dealers -- the only firms that deal directly with the Fed's securities trading desk -- found that none foresaw a cut. Since Sept. 29 the Fed has cut its target rate for overnight lending between banks -- the Federal funds rate -- to 4.75 percent in three quarter-point reductions.
Following are the results from yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.878	97.755	High Rate	4.40%	4.40%	Coupon Yield	4.55%	4.60%	Low Rate	4.39%	4.39%	Median Rate	4.43%	4.43%	Total applied for	$29,252,652	$28,903,127	Accepted	$11,191,314	$10,549,004	Noncompetitive	$1,255,921	$973,920	
Both issues are dated Dec. 24, 1998. The three-month bills mature on March 25, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on June 24, 1999.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE MANAGEMENT HOLDINGS INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



485 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Timmy's Range Rover

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank; Robert H. Frank, a professor of economics at Cornell University, is the author of the forthcoming "Luxury Fever" and the co-author of "The Winner-Take-All Society."

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
So, what are people with real money buying for their 10-year-olds this Christmas? Put this question to a "personal shopper" at F.A.O. Schwarz and she'll promptly escort you to a glass-walled inner sanctum on the second floor. There, on display or in a limited-edition catalogue, you'll see life-size reproductions of Darth Vader and other "Star Wars" characters for $5,000 and up, a castle bed with loft for $30,000 and a hand-carved carousel from Germany for $75,000.
But by far the hottest item this season is a Range Rover a quarter the size of the real thing. With leather upholstery and an AM-FM cassette stereo, it is powered by a 5-horsepower gasoline engine and has a top speed of 20 miles per hour. 
 They're selling fast, but you can still take immediate delivery for $18,500 -- slightly more than the sticker price of a Honda Accord.
Value-conscious shoppers might find that a bit much to pay for a toy car with a lawn mower engine. But they would be missing the point. Forget Furby, this is a serious toy! Even an investment banker's 10-year-old would be thrilled to get one.
Over-the-top spending for kids isn't new. Nor is the junior Rover the most egregious instance. We read, for example, of Manhattan bar mitzvahs that cost $250,000, not counting the optional $20,000 six-minute Grucci fireworks display.
But the most expensive gifts for children now have much higher price tags than they used to, which is also true of the gifts exchanged by their upmarket parents. When a recent Neiman Marcus Christmas catalogue offered the new Jaguar convertible at $80,000, the entire 70-vehicle inventory was snapped up within hours.
America's new luxury fever is driven by a sharply increased concentration of income and wealth. By one measure, the top 1 percent of earners have captured almost 80 percent of all earnings growth since 1979. If trends continue as expected and are reinforced by enactment of flat-tax proposals that would cut rates on top earners by half, the hottest selling toy car will soon be not the junior Rover, but F.A.O. Schwarz's miniature Ferrari, which currently sells for $40,000.
Obviously, adults have the right to spend their incomes however they please. Yet few would insist that these purchases constitute the most fruitful use of this money. Indeed, persuasive scientific evidence suggests that when everyone gets more expensive and elaborate toys, no one is any happier than before.
So why do parents buy such things? The problem is that gift giving is like an arms race: spending less would be better, but only if everybody did it.
The moral outrage of social critics won't make that happen. But a one-line amendment to the Federal tax code could. Switching from our current progressive income tax to a more steeply progressive consumption tax would provide powerful incentives to save and invest money that would otherwise be spent on high-end toys.
Such a tax would be easy to administer. A family would pay tax on its total consumption, defined simply as the difference between what it earned (as currently reported to the Internal Revenue Service) and what it saved. The tax rate on the highest spenders would have to be higher than it is now, to allow for the fact that the rich save much more than others. Everyone's tax burden would be roughly the same as before.
But each family's incentive to buy high-end toys would be changed profoundly. If the additional consumption of top spenders were taxed at a rate of, say, 70 percent, the junior Rover's effective price would jump almost $13,000. (The check to F.A.O. Schwarz would remain the same, but parents who bought the car would pay almost $13,000 more in tax at the end of the year than if they had saved the money instead.)
Just as high real-estate prices have induced Manhattan's wealthy to choose smaller dwellings than their counterparts in other cities, this change would lead many to choose less expensive toys and shelter the savings in tax-free mutual funds. As more families followed that course, the standard that defines an acceptable toy would shift. Before long, less expensive toys would acquire the same cachet as the more expensive models they had displaced.
This pattern would be repeated all the way down the income ladder -- a welcome development at a time when 1 in 70 American families files for bankruptcy each year. Best of all, it would exact no price in enjoyment, since what counts is not absolute spending on toys, but relative spending.
Of course, a steeply progressive consumption tax would also affect other purchase decisions. Many parents might forgo their own $80,000 Range Rovers, choosing $50,000 BMW's instead. Here, too, we could expect similar savings in other income classes.
Before we saw Tim Robbins driving a Range Rover in Robert Altman's film "The Player" in 1992, only a handful of us had any idea what a Rover even was, much less that we needed one to signal our economic success. A return to that innocent condition would not injure us, and the money thus saved could be put to far more urgent uses. Once our savings rates got healthier, we might even consider -- dare I say it -- a slight increase in total tax revenue for things that really matter. Just a few painless retrenchments would repair the leaky roofs and broken toilets in the overcrowded, understaffed elementary schools five miles north of the F.A.O. Schwarz showroom.
Not to worry, though, Timmy. None of this will happen any time soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: FAO SCHWARZ (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (57%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; SALES TAX; SAVINGS; INCOME EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TRENDS (70%); SALES TAX (65%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: FRANK, ROBERT H (DR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



486 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil Stocks Gyrate, Falling From Highs Inspired by I.M.F. Bailout

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Just a month ago, markets here were rallying as the International Monetary Fund moved toward announcing a $41 billion bailout for Brazil.
In a spree of optimism over the I.M.F. backing that some analysts warned was wildly excessive, Brazilian stocks rose 91 percent in a nine-week period through Nov. 27, and 22.5 percent in November alone. 
 There was no obvious cause for such enthusiasm, in either company performance or in the Government's progress toward fiscal discipline.
This month stocks are bouncing wildly again, but mostly in the opposite direction. As of Friday, they had fallen 21.5 percent.
Although the benchmark Brazilian stock index shot up 6.19 percent today, at least some of that buying was attributed to market gains elsewhere. The underlying sense in Brazil is that more irrational selling is in store.
"I see it as unbridled pessimism, which has no foundation," said Rodrigo Fiaes, chief of equity research at Banco Icatu here. "When the market was on the upswing, people were not discounting negatives. Now the market is only discounting the negatives, and not taking positive developments into account."
Yet the urge to dump shares of Brazilian companies was not completely unwarranted, and some analysts considered it a correction of excessive confidence. Since the I.M.F. bailout was announced, there have been some signs that the Brazilian Congress may not be as quick, or as pliant, in accepting the economic belt-tightening proposals of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's administration as investors had hoped.
Congress rejected a proposal to make retired civil servants pay into the pension system, and it went home for the holidays without approving the Government's revised 1999 budget, or extending and increasing a special financial-transactions tax that officials are counting on to meet revenue targets promised to the I.M.F.
"It's a razor-edge situation," said Edmar Bacha, executive director of BBA Securities in New York. "Because the price is not as low as indicating default, nor as high as indicating that Brazil is over the hump, there's a tremendous uncertainty right now as to which way Brazil is going to go. Is it Russia or Korea?"
In addition to the generally falling stock prices, trading volume has plunged, with daily trades toward the end of last week totaling $225 million in value -- one-third of what they were before the global financial crisis began. With such low liquidity, the stock exchange has become a kind of fun-house mirror, magnifying small movements of capital at price extremes.
At the end of 1997, about 30 percent of the trading was done by foreigners. By now, most foreign investors have fled.
"The market is leaving aside the fundamentals, and reacting strongly to any news related to Congress, or to the austerity package," said Roque Sut Ribeiro of the Marka Nikko Asset Fund here.
Brazil's dollar reserves, now at $49 billion after it received a first installment of nearly $10 billion I.M.F. aid in recent days, are still in decline. As of the end of last week, $2.64 billion had flowed from foreign reserves.
If trading takes place among a smaller number of investors these days, the number of companies they are trading is also minuscule, compared with those traded on stock exchanges in the United States. Brazil's main index, the Bovespa in Sao Paulo, is made up of a handful of blue-chip companies, including Telebras, Petrobras and Eletrobras.
Investors will be watching for new appointments that President Cardoso is expected to make on Wednesday. He is expected to create some new jobs in his Cabinet, including a civilian Minister of Defense and, later, a Minister of Production who would wield considerable power.
But the most important announcements for markets this week will involve appointments to head Petrobras; a savings institution, the Caixa Economica Federal, the Banco do Brasil and the National Bank for Development.
One name that has been mentioned to head the development bank is Maria Silvia Marques, the chief executive of CSN, the national steel company. Her appointment would be taken as a sign by investors that privatization would continue to be a Government priority.
"If Cardoso can get it right, in the sense of sending a positive signal to the market," Mr. Fiaes said, "and if the market will be satisfied with the options, we'll see a general improvement in sentiment toward Brazil."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID BAILOUTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TRENDS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); BONDS (69%); APPROVALS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



487 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Can 'the Coach' Change Tactics?

 BODY:
Battered by the resignations under fire of House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Speaker-to-be Robert Livingston in just two months, House Republicans have picked a little-known, untested Midwesterner to serve as their next Speaker. J. Dennis Hastert, a former high school wrestling coach, has a reputation as a conciliator and technocrat who can work with members of both parties. Such qualities could do much to help the next Congress rise above the partisan rancor of the last year -- but only if Mr. Hastert shows his independence from the mean-spirited tactics of his chief backers, especially Tom DeLay, the Republican whip.
In his 12 years in Congress, Mr. Hastert has been a shrewd and popular backbencher with strong positions on only a handful of issues. Few say he has a clear philosophy like that of Mr. Gingrich or knowledge of government like that of Mr. Livingston, who served as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee before his designation as Speaker a month ago. As chairman of an oversight committee on national security, Mr. Hastert devoted himself almost exclusively to combating drugs. In the last budget, he unapologetically won a $250,000 subsidy for the maker of a caffein-laden chewing gum in his district. He has also championed some patient rights in health care reform. 
 It is rare for the country to have someone with such a limited background vault into the position of third in line of succession to the Presidency. Even so, Mr. Hastert's potential as a successful Speaker should not be dismissed. He is getting this chance because House Republicans were rocked by public reaction to their insistence on impeaching Mr. Clinton instead of censuring him. The Republicans are at least showing some sensitivity by reaching beyond the Southern hard-liners for this leadership position. The trouble with Mr. Hastert's sudden emergence is that his most recent service has been as deputy whip under Mr. DeLay, whose scorched-earth tactics forced Mr. Livingston to abandon an initial promise to let the House vote on the censure option. If Mr. Hastert hopes for reconciliation, he needs to renounce such partisan tactics, especially since Republicans have only a six-vote majority in the next Congress.
The other challenge facing Mr. Hastert is to restore a measure of maturity and stability to his party. He can set an example for his House and the White House in avoiding what Richard Gephardt, the Democratic leader, called the politics of personal destruction. The important business of the next Congress, including rescue of Social Security and steps to insulate the United States from the global recession, cannot succeed without bipartisan support. There will be no room for partisan solutions rammed through the House, accompanied by demands for party loyalty.
Mr. Hastert is known as "the coach" to his colleagues. He should remember that his team will include all House members, not just the few who plucked him from obscurity to serve as Speaker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE REPUBLICANS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE REPUBLICANS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (72%); WRESTLING (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY (52%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (51%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HASTERT, J DENNIS (REPR); DELAY, TOM (REPR) ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



488 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Frozen in Time By Years of Sanctions

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 21

 BODY:
At one newsstand in downtown Baghdad, a magazine on display reports that the Prince of Wales has been seen with Lady Diana Spencer and speculates that a romance might be blossoming. At another the prize offering is a maintenance manual for the 1988 Oldsmobile.
Iraq is a nation frozen in time, and the recent wave of American and British bombing seems to have done nothing that would hasten a thaw. 
 The oddest thing about the bombing campaign, at least as viewed from Baghdad, is how little it changed anything. Today life continued as if the explosions that were heard last week were nothing more than a fireworks show.
Certainly there was an air of theater about the streaking antiaircraft fire that lit up the sky during the bombing raids. Most, if not all of it, came from low-caliber weapons that had no more chance of shooting down a jet fighter than a popgun would have. Its only purpose was to give Iraqis a sense that they were in some way masters of their destiny and not simply mute subjects.
That sense was probably inaccurate. Iraq may still be able to defy the West, but people here cannot affect the course of President Saddam Hussein's Government.
Out of necessity, if for no other reason, Iraqis seem to have accepted their fate. As they adjusted today to a new period of peace, they continued to live in a world that for nearly a decade has not progressed a bit and in fact has slowly deteriorated.
Nowhere is this more visible than along the banks of the Tigris, which runs through the heart of Baghdad. For generations its landscaped banks were one of the most romantic places to stroll in the entire Middle East, lined with seafood restaurants that were packed until late at night.
Now the once-magnificent parks are overgrown with weeds, and the ruins of the restaurants are home only to vermin. This afternoon, groups of unemployed men sat in chairs along the opposite sidewalk, gazing toward the river and perhaps recalling the city's lost glory.
Baghdad's central bazaar resembles Cairo's or Istanbul's played in slow motion. There is a fair amount to buy, but nothing like what is available even in comparably tiny cities like Amman, Jordan, or Manama, Bahrain. The bursting commercial energy that throbs through the rest of the Middle East is absent here, as if someone had sprinkled the population with sleeping powder.
Eight years after the United Nations imposed punishing economic sanctions on Iraq, people here have devised two distinct strategies for dealing with the country's steady decline.
Ordinary people have simply reduced their expectations. They live on what can be produced inside the country and on rations distributed by the United Nations.
The elite have found ways to maintain the good life. There are villas along leafy avenues and new Toyota sedans, which under the right circumstances might someday be traded for the latest BMW or Mercedes models. In places like the Samsung dealership downtown, televisions, computers and microwave ovens are available at bargain prices, courtesy of sanctions-busting smugglers working from Persian Gulf countries.
From the Samsung showroom and the stores nearby that sell expensive items like imported marble floor tiles, the idea of rebelling against President Hussein, as the United States has been urging, seems far-fetched. He not only summarily executes everyone he suspects of plotting against him, but he also offers privileges to his elite that make loyalty pay off.
In the eyes of many Iraqis, the image of the United States is reflected not by dazzling consumer goods or terrifying weapons, but rather by the decaying United States Embassy, which sits forlornly on a Baghdad street corner, guarded by three friendly young soldiers.
Inside the embassy, yellowing photos of San Diego, Houston and other cities line the main stairwell. A shelf in one office holds a set of American Heritage magazines, the latest dated June 1990, just before the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the resulting evacuation of American diplomats.
A Polish diplomat now sits in the office that was used by the last United States Ambassador, April Glaspie. He represents American interests in Iraq, presumably no more ambiguously than Ms. Glaspie, who gave Mr. Hussein fateful signals that he apparently interpreted as a go-ahead for his invasion of Kuwait in August 1990.
Along streets near the embassy, shopping malls lie quiet, shut long ago when sanctions began to bite. Storefronts that once housed travel agencies are still plastered with KLM and Air France decals, but with the airlines unable to fly here, no one has opened their doors for years.
At Al Rashid Hotel, one of the few hotels still functioning, pictures of Santa Claus and cherubs hang from the walls. Today an ersatz Christmas tree, fully decorated, was placed in the lobby.
Everyone entering the hotel must walk across a large floor panel bearing a diabolical likeness of George Bush and the motto "Bush Is Criminal." Employees said there was no plan to update it by adding President Clinton's image.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis shopped at the Shorja market in downtown Baghdad. As they adjusted to a new period of peace, they continued to live in a world that for nearly a decade has not progressed a bit and in fact has slowly deteriorated. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JORDAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); AMMAN, JORDAN (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; BAGHDAD (IRAQ); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JORDAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); AMMAN, JORDAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN PRINCE CHARLES (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); PRINCESS DIANA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



489 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Rebuffs France on Plan for Compromise on U.N. Weapons Inspections

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Iraq today rejected suggestions that it might change its decision to end cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors if the composition or leadership of the inspection teams were changed.
At a news conference, Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz brushed aside a proposal from President Jacques Chirac of France under which United Nations sanctions imposed on Iraq over its invasion of Kuwait would be lifted while a new team of inspectors monitors sites where Iraq is suspected of producing weapons of mass destruction. 
 He condemned Mr. Chirac's proposal for "concentrating on Iraq selectively" and asked: "Why doesn't he make a proposal to look after what Israel has?"
Mr. Aziz also said that reconstituting the inspection teams under a chairman other than Richard Butler, whose work he has sharply criticized, would not be acceptable.
"Richard Butler is a cheap pawn in the hands of the Americans," Mr. Aziz said. "He is not the issue. The issue is the American and British position during the whole period, which prevented the Security Council from making any serious effort to lift the sanctions."
Mr. Aziz reiterated the country's position, expressed after American and British bombing raids began last week, that it has decided to halt all cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors.
"The weapons inspections were killed by the American and British missiles," he said. "I cannot give them another life."
Mr. Aziz said Iraq would not accept any resumption of inspections until the United Nations votes for a "condemnation of the aggressor" and lifts the economic sanctions it imposed on Iraq eight years ago.
"Without that it will be difficult for Iraq to talk," he said. "How can I receive a suggestion from a party that does not condemn the aggression? How can I discuss a solution if that solution does not include an end to the sanctions?"
In condemning Mr. Chirac's proposal, Mr. Aziz said: "In all this bombing, not a trace of chemical or biological weapons was detected. All this rhetoric about weapons of mass destruction is a big lie."
By ending its cooperation with inspectors, Iraq risked further isolating itself at a time when it appeared to be winning at least grudging sympathy from France, Russia, China and several Islamic nations. It also effectively challenged the United States and Britain to see if they can sustain a policy of periodic bombing of Iraq, which they may now decide is the only way to control what they say is President Saddam Hussein's deadly arsenal.
At his news conference, Mr. Aziz described the Clinton Administration as criminal and accused Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain of turning his country into "a tail of the fox that is in Washington."
"We did not damage our relations with the United Nations," he said. "They damaged the United Nations itself. They acted according to the law of the jungle. They did not act according to international law."
The weapons inspectors made thousands of inspections and installed scores of cameras and monitoring devices in factories and other sites. They repeatedly complained, however, that Iraqi officials were denying them access to suspicious sites and seeking to impede and limit their work.
The United Nations has said it would not lift sanctions until the inspectors certify that Iraq is not hiding nuclear, chemical or biological weapons or the means to deliver them.
Mr. Aziz also gave the first full Iraqi assessment of the damage from last week's bombing raids. He said 62 Iraqi officers and soldiers had been killed and another 180 wounded.
Although he gave no figures for civilian casualties, he said they were "much higher" than those suffered by the military. He said bombs had hit military barracks and Government offices, but charged that others had fallen on "hospitals, private homes, schools and other civilian sites."
Mr. Aziz's assessment of the damage contrasted sharply with that of American and British officials, who have asserted that their bombs fell only on military targets.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; FRANCE; UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); KINZER, STEPHEN JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



490 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Pay Pakistan Back for Undelivered Jets

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
The United States has agreed to pay Pakistan $324.6 million in cash and an additional $142.3 million through other means as reimbursement for 28 F-16 fighter planes that Pakistan paid for in 1989 but never received, the White House announced today.
In return, Pakistan will withdraw its claim to the planes. 
 New Zealand has agreed to lease or buy all the planes, and all proceeds will be used to reimburse the United States Treasury, officials said.
Delivery of the aircraft was stopped after 1990 when the United States ended all military and relief aid to Pakistan to protest a program to develop nuclear weapons. The action was mandatory under Congressional statute.
The deal was first announced on Saturday by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan.
The White House said that the Pakistani claim totaled $463.7 million but that the reimbursement figures added up to $466.9 million. The announcement from Islamabad on Saturday had put the figure at $467 million. There was no immediate explanation for the discrepancy.
The Clinton Administration has been looking for ways to help Pakistan overcome grave economic problems that arose partly from the mandatory United States sanctions imposed after Pakistan conducted nuclear tests in May. Similar sanctions were applied against India, which also conducted tests.
After Congress gave President Clinton waiver authority, he moved quickly to ease sanctions against both countries.
The $324 million will be obtained from a Treasury Department fund used to settle legal disputes involving the Federal Government.
Pakistan will also receive $2.3 million from the Department of Defense as a refund from a prior sale of some of the equipment associated with the F-16.
In addition, the White House statement said, the United States will use "all available means" to provide Pakistan with additional goods and benefits up to the value of $140 million, including farm commodities.
It said the United States would provide white wheat valued at about $60 million at prevailing market prices. The remaining $80 million will be decided by mutual agreement.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; NEW ZEALAND; UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); AIRLINES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



491 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Europe Trade War Looms Over Bananas

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
After six years of trans-Atlantic skirmishes, the Clinton Administration fired the first real salvo in its banana war with the European Union today -- announcing sanctions on European luxury goods that if imposed would chill the blood of shoppers along Rodeo Drive and wandering the aisles at Balducci's.
Starting as early as February, the Administration declared, it would slap 100 percent tariffs on $500 million worth of European goods -- doubling their wholesale price -- because European leaders have refused to open up their market to bananas shipped by two American companies, the Dole Food Company and Chiquita Brands International. It is a sanction steeped deeply in politics: The bananas are not grown in the United States, but the companies are American, and Chiquita's controlling shareholder, Carl H. Lindner, is a major contributor to both political parties who has put bananas on the top of Washington's trade agenda. 
 The purpose of announcing the sanctions is to force Europe to open its market before they are imposed. After a similar threat to double the price of Japanese luxury cars in 1995, Tokyo backed down. The same tactic was used to get the Chinese to crack down on pirated movies and software in 1996.
So far, in this case, however, there is little hint of a settlement. A failed meeting between President Clinton and European leaders on Friday, as the House of Representatives was debating Mr. Clinton's impeachment, led to today's announcement.
One senior Administration official said today that the list of European products that would soar in price if no banana agreement was reached would "hit them where it hurts." It includes Louis Vuitton handbags, and pecorino, a hard, sharp Italian cheese, "in original loaves, not suitable for grating." European-made cotton bed linens are subject to the huge tariffs, along with cashmere "sweaters, pullovers, sweat shirts, waistcoats and similar articles."
Conspicuously absent from that list was European wine, which had been listed earlier. The trade representative's office said that American wine growers had asked that French, Italian and German wines be exempted, because they are negotiating access for their own products in Europe, a move they feared would be derailed by the sanctions.
But the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, who is often seen in Washington wearing Hermes scarves, included European-made bath products, tapered candles and Mont Blanc pens.
American officials said they drew up the list so that the sanctions would be roughly equivalent to their estimate of how much the American companies lose in sales in the European market.
At his lunch at the White House with the leaders of the European Union on Friday, Mr. Clinton threatened to approve the sanctions unless the Europeans relented on banana quotas that the World Trade Organization has ruled several times violate international trading rules. Eager to show that the President was not consumed with his own troubles, White House aides offered reporters unusually detailed accounts of the President's jousting with Sir Leon Brittan, the union's persistent trade minister, who has devoted enormous energy to the banana battles.
Sir Leon's upper-class British accent, they said, led the President to declare on Friday that "the only thing that makes this discussion almost tolerable is listening to you pronounce 'bo-non-nas.' "
But in the end, Mr. Clinton had no success in persuading the Europeans to relent on bananas. So this morning, he struck back.
American officials insist that more than bananas is at stake here -- although they admit, somewhat sheepishly, that their tough-minded sanctions protect virtually no American jobs. Dole and Chiquita grow almost all of their bananas in Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Nicaragua.
"What's at stake here is the credibility of the World Trade Organization," insisted Peter Scher, the chief American negotiator on agricultural issues. "This is the first case in which any country has essentially refused to comply with rulings of the W.T.O. Even the Japanese, when they lose a case, sit down and negotiate a solution.
"If we cannot demonstrate that there is a price to pay for refusing to comply with the W.T.O., then there is no incentive to use this system."
Sir Leon, in a statement issued in Brussels, shot back that the United States was threatening "European firms and jobs which have no link with the banana dispute whatsoever."
"It is difficult to think of a more obvious breach of the multilateral trade system than to take the law into your own hands in defiance of the W.T.O. rules," Sir Leon said.
Agriculture has always ranked among the toughest trade issues, and the disputes have grown even nastier in recent months as the prices of all major commodities have fallen. As American trade officials were announcing the banana sanctions today, they were also arguing with the Japanese over their moves in the last week to place 1,000 percent tariffs on imported rice, despite a grudging agreement three years ago, under threats of retaliation, to open their rice market. There is no tougher issue for Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party, which depends on rice farmers for its survival.
Similarly, the arguments with Canada over wheat have gotten particularly nasty in recent months, with blockades at the border as American farmers protested the influx of Canadian goods. It was defused recently with promises by Canada to import more American wheat.
In the banana dispute, there is little question that the United States has a good case. It has won several challenges to Europe's complex quota system, which the W.T.O. has declared blatantly discriminatory, intended to assure that European companies get the advantage in bringing bananas into the Continent from Latin America and the Caribbean. After the United States won its W.T.O. case, the Europeans made slight changes in its rules -- not enough actually to open the market, the United States contends -- and said that if the Americans did not like it, they should start the legal actions all over again.
Mr. Lindner, who controls Chiquita, has close connections to both parties. In 1995, Chiquita executives convinced Senator Bob Dole, at the time a candidate for the Republican nomination for President, to submit amendments to a budget bill that would impose sharp trade sanctions on Costa Rica and Colombia unless they pulled out of a trade deal with the European Union. At the time Mr. Lindner and his family made significant donations to both Democrats and Republicans, and Mr. Dole -- who has no links to Dole Food -- was flying around in a plane supplied by Mr. Lindner's brother and paid for by his campaign. He said at the time that the use of the plane was unconnected to his help for Chiquita.
The White House opposed Mr. Lindner's suggestions that it impose immediate sanctions, but it did pursue the legal case at the W.T.O. headquarters in Geneva, while insisting that Mr. Lindner's donations to the Democrats had nothing to do with the trade efforts, a position the officials still maintained today.
The political problem for the White House, then and now, is that few American jobs are at stake in the banana trade. That means the United States is imposing sanctions on behalf of American investors, not workers.
Even the United States trade representative at the time, Mickey Kantor, a man who knows how to use a trade deal for good political advantage, conceded that America was no longer a banana-growing power.
'If you drive north on the Pacific Coast Highway," he once said at a news conference, "I think there's 10 acres of bananas on the right-hand side."
While this dispute failed to make headlines in the United States, it was big news in Latin America and the Caribbean islands, where bananas are a huge part of the economy, employing tens of thousands of workers.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (71%); MC (PAR) (66%); LVMH (BIT) (66%); CQB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (71%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (66%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (66%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (78%); JAPAN (55%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC; DOLE FOOD CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION DOLE FOOD CO INC (71%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (66%); CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC; DOLE FOOD CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (78%); JAPAN (55%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); FINES (PENALTIES); QUOTAS FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CHEESE (70%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); APPROVALS (62%); WINE (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



492 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: A Predator Returned to the Wild Discovers It Is Now Prey

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: ALPINE, Ariz., Dec. 17

 BODY:
Last spring, Bobby Fite peered down the sight of his .22 magnum rifle at what he thought was a coyote stalking two newborn calves near his house here.
"I threw that scope on her, then I saw that box on her, and I thought, man, that's one of them wolves," Mr. Fite, a rancher, said, recalling how he lowered his rifle after he realized that the predator in his pasture was a Mexican gray wolf, or lobo. 
 Newly reintroduced after ranchers exterminated them half a century ago from the high timberlands of eastern Arizona, today's lobos wear radio collars that allow them to be tracked by biologists.
But the wolves have had a rocky return to Arizona's forests this year. Of the first batch of 11 released in March, 5 were shot, 2 are missing and presumed dead, and the rest had to be recaptured for their safety while biologists reworked the program.
Last week, scientists gave it another go, releasing two pair into the wilderness. This time, the hindquarters of each wolf were spray-painted orange. The radio collars were also painted, orange for males, pink for females.
The paint should not interfere with the wolves' mating habits, because the animals are color-blind. But some environmentalists grumble that, even though the intent is to protect the wolves, marking them this way is the equivalent of painting large, fluorescent targets on their backsides.
The paint is to help hunters distinguish Mexican wolves, one of the smallest wolf subspecies in North America, from coyotes, the garden-variety predators of the West. In much of the rural West, coyotes can be legally shot year round, no questions asked, no permits needed.
"Coyotes are varmints," said Sam Luce, another rancher near here. "They are in our chicken houses, killing our chickens, killing our barn cats. A lot of the sportsmen consider them a target. That puts the wolf in a bad situation, because he looks just like a coyote."
After the rash of wolf shootings in the fall, wildlife officials angrily called the killings "sabotage." But now they say it appears that errors by hunters may account for most of the shootings.
Aware that many local ranchers were hostile to the release of the wolves, biologists worked early this year to monitor the animals and remove them from areas with sheep and cows. They also educated ranchers about the penalty for intentionally killing a Mexican wolf, an endangered animal, on public land: a fine of up to $100,000 and a jail term of up to one year.
The efforts appeared at first to be successful. Until the hunting season began in August, only one wolf was shot and killed -- by a camper.
"If the ranchers wanted to shoot wolves, they would have shot them in April, May and June, when the wolves were in town, in calving pastures, among sheep, among horses," said Diane Boyd-Heger, a wolf biologist for the Arizona Game and Fish Department, who has directed the introduction program. "The local people had plenty of opportunities to shoot these wolves. I really don't think it was the ranchers."
But things took a turn for the worse with the annual fall invasion by hunters of the Apache National Forest, which surrounds this tiny village. Before the season began, wildlife officials had mailed brochures explaining the wolf-recovery program to the 6,000 hunters who had permits to hunt dear, elk, bear and mountain lions in the wolf area.
But from August through November, four wolves were shot dead over an area the size of Connecticut. According to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, which is leading the investigation into the killings, at least three guns were used. Rewards totaling $45,000 have been posted for information leading to an arrest and conviction in a wolf killing case.
"My personal feeling is it is just random," Ms. Boyd-Heger said. "I don't think there is a concerted sabotage attempt. I don't think there is a conspiracy."
Undaunted by losing half of the wolves in the first year, biologists plan to release in the National Forest here next March two more packs, totaling nine wolves. The goal is to have a population of 100 Mexican wolves roaming the National Forest by the year 2005.
Bruce Babbitt, the Secretary of the Interior and a former Governor of Arizona, has stressed his support for the program in two visits this year to this remote mountain town, a five-hour drive from Phoenix.
Many people here, and in the rest of Arizona, support the return of the wolves. A poll in October of 720 Arizona residents by the Behavior Research Center, a Phoenix company, found that 61 percent of respondents said they had become more supportive in recent years of efforts to protect endangered wildlife.
But in this economically depressed corner of the state, many people see the wolves as another blow imposed by outsiders to a traditional rural economy already hammered by dramatic reductions in timber harvests from public lands and in the number of cows that ranchers can have graze on public lands.
"We've got plenty of predators around here already -- mountain lions, coyotes, lots of bears," said Dr. Luce, a retired doctor whose cattle grazes on his own land along the Blue River. He said that every fall when his neighbors rounded up their cattle from grazing on National Forest lands, they regularly discovered that they had lost about 10 percent of their calves to predators.
"This competition just throws these wolves into the cattle," said Dr. Luce, who added that he occasionally saw wolves in his pastures this summer and that, in May, a wolf killed his 8-year-old trained cow dog, which he valued at $5,000.
"A little old calf that can barely get into a trot is a lot easier to catch than a deer or elk that can run full blast," he said.
Tim Anderson, a big-game hunting guide, said over lunch at the Bear Wallow Cafe here that he had no problems with a few wolves in the woods. "But if they get 100 up here, I don't know what will happen," Mr. Anderson said, as his prized blue tick hunting hounds barked outside.
Worried by articles in hunting magazines about wolves killing hunting dogs in Minnesota, he said: "I have hounds that I have turned down $4,000 for. I guess I'll just keep my fingers crossed."
The wolf release program was opposed by the ranching associations of New Mexico and Arizona, the Governors of both states and votes of county commissioners in 11 counties.
In the past, ranchers were the angriest of the opponents, and some environmentalists charge that they are the ones are behind the killings.
"The ranchers came out publicly saying, 'We will kill the wolves,' " said Kieran Suckling, executive director of the Southwest Center for Biological Diversity, an environmental group in Tucson. "After the killings, ranchers were the only group of people who came out and applauded. Now ranchers are the only group who are suing to stop the program."
Reflecting the polarization caused by the wolf release, on Dec. 6 someone fired a shotgun into the offices of a Santa Fe animal rights group. The group had received an anonymous letter threatening "to kill any wolf reintroduced."
Four days later, someone spray-painted in large letters, "Wolves" and "N.M. Needs Wolves" on the building that houses the New Mexico Cattle Growers' Association. "It is part of a radical agenda to move us off the land," said Caren Cowan, the association's executive secretary. Noting that her ranching group has filed a legal challenge to the wolf program, Ms. Cowan added: "Our members are law-abiding citizens. We don't condone anyone breaking the law."
On Wednesday, the Cattle Growers' Association sent out a press release urging hunters to boycott a Fish and Wildlife Service questionnaire about the wolf killings. Slipping into the kind of harsh language that has often surrounded the wolf program, the association called the query "Gestapo tactics by an out-of-control Federal agency embarrassed by the total failure of its all-advised reintroduction program."
 Faced with sharp criticism by three of New Mexico's Congressmen, the service retracted the questionnaire on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Mexican gray wolf before its release in March near Alpine, Ariz. Bobby Fite, a cattle rancher in Alpine, Ariz., said one of the newly returned wolves had entered his property. Mr. Fite tends about 40 Herefords. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)
 
Map of Arizona showing location of Alpine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WOLVES; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; LIVESTOCK MAMMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); STALKING (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ZOOLOGY (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); POULTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CATS (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



493 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Court Tells Giuliani to Release Budget Data

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
A state judge has ruled that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani must provide more information to a public agency that scrutinizes the city budget, saying that his efforts to withhold facts and figures from the agency were illegal.
In a lawsuit filed last spring, the agency, known as the Independent Budget Office, charged that Mr. Giuliani had violated the City Charter by prohibiting city agencies from releasing financial data directly to it. Instead, the agency said, information was relayed through the Mayor's Office of Management and Budget, and was often late or incomplete. 
 Judge Karla Moskowitz of State Supreme Court ruled on Friday that the City Charter required city agencies to provide the Independent Budget Office with whatever information it needed to analyze the city's spending. The Charter states that the director of the Independent Budget Office "shall be authorized to secure such information, data, estimates and statistics from the agencies of the city as the director determines to be necessary for the performance."
Mr. Giuliani did not comment on the ruling yesterday, but Thomas Crane, a lawyer for the city, said the city would probably not appeal it. Voters approved the creation of the Independent Budget Office in 1989, as part of a new City Charter that expanded mayoral powers. It was intended to serve as a nonpartisan monitor of the budget, providing analysis to elected officials, advocacy groups and others who wanted to better understand the city's fiscal policies. But the agency did not begin operating until 1996, after several attempts by top officials -- including Mayor David N. Dinkins, Mr. Giuliani and leaders of the City Council -- to abolish it.
Mr. Giuliani has ridiculed the agency throughout his five years in office, saying it is a waste of tax dollars because the city already has too many fiscal monitors. After the Independent Budget Office filed its lawsuit in April, he called it "the most partisan group of Democrats, who are the most left-wing."
The Independent Budget Office has a staff of about 35 and an annual budget of $2.5 million. Douglas A. Criscitello, the director, said the office had not been able to publish thorough reports on issues like police overtime and the declining welfare rolls because of a lack of information.
"We were established as a counterbalance to the Mayor, so he should have no say in deciding what information we get," Mr. Criscitello said yesterday. "We need to have a full understanding of how the city operates in order to truly meet our mission, which is to enhance public understanding of fiscal issues affecting all New Yorkers."
Mr. Criscitello and his staff are among a growing number of officials, advocacy groups and news organizations that have taken the Giuliani administration to court to obtain information on city agencies. Just last month, a state appellate court ruled that the administration had to provide the Public Advocate, Mark Green, with the case files of hundreds of police officers suspected of misconduct.
But Mr. Criscitello said the ruling affecting his office was more significant because it provided access to "any and all information that we deem appropriate from city agencies." If the city complies with the ruling, the Independent Budget Office will publish reports next year on the Board of Education's long-term construction plan and the financial impact of closing the Fresh Kills landfill, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGETS (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUDGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); APPEALS (89%); CITIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LIBERALISM (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MOSKOWITZ, KARLA (JUDGE) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



494 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Manila Journal;
First Lady's Squawk Hints at Dictator's Nest Egg

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: MANILA

 BODY:
In the pre-Christmas bustle of this teeming city, a ghost of the Philippine past has suddenly re-emerged.
Imelda Marcos, the 69-year-old widow of the dictator Ferdinand E. Marcos, has announced that she plans to file a lawsuit to recover more than $12 billion in assets that she claims belonged to her husband. 
 After insisting for years that Mr. Marcos had not been a kleptocrat but a public servant who made other people rich, she declared in an interview with The Philippine Inquirer, "We practically own everything in the Philippines."
It was a startling admission, even from a woman known for Norma Desmond-like theatricality. From people here, who have watched Mrs. Marcos laugh, weep, rant and burst into song for more than three decades, one could almost hear the collective reaction: "She's b-a-a-a-ck."
Of course, the former First Lady has actually been back for a while. Since returning from exile in Hawaii in 1991, Mrs. Marcos has run for the House of Representatives and won, run for the Presidency and lost, been convicted of graft by a Philippine court and been acquitted on appeal by the Supreme Court.
These days, she lives in a plush apartment in central Manila, where she holds court with a dwindling retinue of friends and hangers-on. More marginalized than ever, Mrs. Marcos has become a virtual caricature of herself, a loquacious woman referred to by less generous people as the Madwoman of Manila.
Now, though, Mrs. Marcos has caught everyone's attention again. Not only has she freely acknowledged that her husband had amassed vast business interests, but she is also identifying the assets in question. She said Mr. Marcos owned more than $12 billion worth of shares in dozens of companies, including Philippine Airlines and Philippine Long Distance Telephone.
Mrs. Marcos said her husband had entrusted the shares to his close associates. Several of those friends went on to become the wealthiest business tycoons in the Philippines, and they came to epitomize the crony capitalism that took poisonous root here and in other Southeast Asian countries.
 At a formal inquiry into the Marcos riches on Monday by a Philippine Senate panel, she acknowledged that her family could be worth $12.5 billion but refused because of the pending lawsuits to give details on where the money was and who might be keeping it, Reuters reported. The committee threatened to cite her for contempt. She appeared at the hearing after being threatened with arrest for refusing an earlier summons.
Mrs. Marcos told The Inquirer that the cronies to whom Mr. Marcos had entrusted his money became "so rich but they got too greedy."
"Now," she said, "they refused to turn to us the top firms that the Marcoses rightfully owned."
Mrs. Marcos's public comments have alarmed her daughter, Imee Marcos, who is a legislator from her father's old district. The younger Ms. Marcos said her family is still anxious to reach a compromise with the Government over her father's wealth. Her mother, she said half-jokingly, is "wild and crazy."
But after the initial japes and raised eyebrows, people here said Mrs. Marcos's claims would resonate in a country that is still struggling to move out of the long shadow of Ferdinand Marcos.
"Imelda's pronouncements have awoken people's consciousness about what was done under Marcos," said Bernardo Villegas, dean of the School of Economics at the University of Asia and the Pacific. "That's why, in a way, critics of the Government are watching this case very closely."
Worries about cronyism have resurfaced under the new President, Joseph E. Estrada, a genial former movie star who has befriended some of the most notorious cronies of the Marcos era.
Mr. Estrada recently interceded in some business deals in a way that has benefited his friends and campaign supporters.
In one case, a Hong Kong company acquired control of Philippine Long Distance Telephone by buying $781 million worth of shares from the Cojuangco family, a business dynasty that was close to Mr. Marcos.
After seeing an old-time crony earn such lucre, Mrs. Marcos swung into action. She said the Cojuangco shares really belonged to Mr. Marcos, who gave them to Ramon Cojuangco in a trust. Mr. Cojuangco's son, Antonio, has challenged Mrs. Marcos to show proof.
Given the dubious provenance of so many fortunes here, some experts said Mrs. Marcos may have a case. But Sergio Osmena, a Senator who was jailed by Mr. Marcos in 1972, said she risked more litigation with her claims. If the Marcoses owned so many shares, he asked, "why didn't they pay taxes on them?"
Few people take such a comment as a serious threat to the Marcos family. By one count, the Government has filed 60 lawsuits against the Marcos family over the last 11 years, but has yet to win one. And Mr. Estrada favors a compromise under which Mrs. Marcos would return some assets to the Government.
Several political experts here said Mr. Marcos's disclosures were a sign of her self-confidence. "Imelda has been acquitted by the Supreme Court, and she may feel more comfortable with the current administration," said Christian Monzad, a former chairman of the Philippine Election Commission.
Mrs. Marcos has retained the law firm of Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, who was her husband's former Defense Secretary. Whatever the reaction to her claims, Senator Enrile is not taking any chances. After several days of incendiary quotes in The Philippine Inquirer, he imposed a gag order on her.
"She gets herself into trouble whenever she opens her mouth," said one of her advisers, passing along the news that, incredibly, Imelda Marcos did not want to talk.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Threatened with arrest, Imelda Marcos appeared yesterday before a Senate committee in Pasay, the Philippines, to testify about the hidden assets of her late husband, the dictator Ferdinand E. Marcos. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (91%); 

COMPANY: PHILIPPINE LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES; PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); ASIA (72%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (91%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); POLITICS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); APPEALS (66%); ACQUITTAL (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MARCOS, FERDINAND E (1917-89); LANDLER, MARK; MARCOS, IMELDA MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



495 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

European Goods Face Tariffs in Banana Dispute
The Clinton Administration said that as early as February it would put 100 percent tariffs on $500 million worth of European-made goods because European leaders have refused to open their markets to bananas shipped by two American companies, Dole Food and Chiquita Brands International. 
 The purpose of the sanctions is to force the nations to open their markets, and the list of European products that will soar in price includes Louis Vuitton handbags, cotton bed linens and cashmere sweaters. So far there is little hint of a settlement. Page A1.
 
Japan Proposes Spending Spree
The Japanese Government's proposed $708 billion budget aims to lift the economy out of recession, but its vast size underscores the pressing worry that a big spending spree now will break the official coffers later. The budget includes a significant increase in spending for roads, bridges, dams and other public works intended to revive the economy. C4.
 
Japan's trade surplus declined in November for the first time in 20 months, but economists said that it would stay large and that concerns about trade friction with America would persist until Japan's economy recovered. C4.
 
The International Monetary Fund lowered its projection for 1999 world economic growth for the second time in three months, to 2.2 percent from 2.5 percent. C4.
 
German exports plunged in the third quarter as recessions in Japan and Russia eroded demand for autos, chemicals and machinery made in Europe's largest economy. C4.
 
Big Gains for Network Solutions
Even as the Government is moving forward with plans to hand administration of the Internet's address system over to a nonprofit corporation, Network Solutions, which now has an exclusive Government contract for registering Internet addresses in the popular domains of .com, .net and .org, has joined the list of Internet stocks rising to dizzying heights, more than tripling in the last two weeks. One reason is alliances the company has reached with Netscape, Yahoo and others. Market Place. C5.
 
A.M.A. Opposes Aetna Acquisition
The American Medical Association has asked the Justice Department to challenge Aetna Inc.'s $1 billion purchase of the health care business of Prudential Insurance. The doctors' group says the deal, which would create the nation's largest H.M.O., threatens consumers' ability to choose a health care plan. C2.
 
Large Verdict Against Time Warner
A jury raised to $454 million a verdict against Time Warner Inc. and its affiliates in a case arising from a contract dispute at the Six Flags Over Georgia theme park. The world's leading entertainment and media company said it would appeal the verdict, the largest in Georgia's history. C2.
 
Two Insurgents Elected by N.A.S.D.
In the first contested election in the history of the National Association of Securities Dealers, two of the four members of an independent slate representing small broker-dealer firms have won board seats. C5.
 
Bond Yields Hit 3-Week High
Prices of United States bonds fell for a second time in three sessions, pushing yields to a three-week high as rising prices for stocks from New York to Hong Kong dimmed the allure of less risky Treasuries. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 5.06 percent, from 5.00 percent on Friday. C5.
 
Cramer to Return to CNBC Show
James J. Cramer, the money manager, will return to CNBC as a guest analyst after being pulled for one episode while the network reviewed comments he made about the stock of an Internet company. C6.
 
Livent Cleared to Rehire Employees
A bankruptcy judge gave Livent permission to temporarily rehire the chief financial officer and four other finance and accounting employees dismissed by the theater company last week at the request of the S.E.C. C18.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,988.85 up 85.22
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.06% up 0.06
The Dollar -- 116.21 yen up 0.60

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (82%); TWX (NYSE) (80%); MC (PAR) (71%); LVMH (BIT) (71%); DOLE (NYSE) (58%); CQB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (71%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (71%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (58%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (82%); TIME WARNER INC (80%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (71%); DOLE FOOD CO INC (58%); CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); SIX FLAGS OVER GEORGIA INC (51%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); HISTORY (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (72%); DOMAIN NAMES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (63%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (63%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (62%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



496 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Banana Wars

 BODY:
The United States and the European Union are headed toward an avoidable collision over bananas. Yesterday, in retaliation for European restrictions on banana imports, the United States announced a list of European imports that will be subject to 100 percent tariffs -- ranging from cashmere sweaters to plastic purses.
The Europeans are flouting a ruling by the World Trade Organization that their banana restrictions, which discriminate in favor of European companies in importing the fruit, are illegal. Such defiance is discouraging when protectionist pressures are growing in many countries. 
 The principal beneficiary of an American victory would be Chiquita Brands, whose chairman, Carl Lindner, has been a generous contributor to both Democrats and Republicans. That has allowed Europeans to claim, inaccurately, that this is about politics, and that they are simply favoring poor Latin American banana exporters. In fact, central American countries, also poor, are joint plaintiffs with the United States in this dispute.
Rather than negotiate a settlement after the W.T.O. decision, the Europeans announced new banana rules. But those rules made no significant changes, and appear to be an effort to delay compliance. Europe resisted efforts to get a rapid W.T.O. opinion on those rules.
Compromise is needed. If Europe shows a willingness to abide by the W.T.O. ruling, the United States should be open to delays in Europe's coming into full compliance. But it is essential for Europe to accede to the W.T.O. ruling even if it does not like it. To do otherwise would invite international anarchy on trade rules when protectionism is a greater threat than at any time in the past decade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: CARL H LINDNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



497 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Policy On China Is Questioned After Jailings

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Six months after President Clinton traveled to Beijing and challenged China's leaders to move rapidly toward political reform, the Administration's policy of engaging Beijing was called into question today when Chinese courts sentenced three of the nation's most prominent dissidents to long jail sentences.
Critics of China on Capitol Hill and human rights groups said the tough prison terms were evidence of the failure of the Administration's policy to encourage trade and diplomatic ties with China in hopes of democratic reform. 
 The dissidents -- Xu Wenli, who was sentenced to 13 years in prison, Wang Youcai, who received an 11-year sentence, and Qin Yongming, who was reported to have received 12 years -- were charged with subversion.
Given President Clinton's effusive praise for China's senior leaders during his trip to Beijing last summer, the Administration found itself on the defensive today and harshly criticized the prison sentences, even as it continued to insist that the Administration's policy of engagement was helping Beijing toward democracy.
James Foley, a State Department spokesman, said that the United States "deeply deplores" the jail terms and called for the immediate release of the dissidents. "These three men appear to have been involved in nothing more than efforts to form a new political party," he said.
While condemning the prison sentences, Mr. Foley and other American officials were careful to note the Administration's assessment that there had been progress in the human rights situation in China, some of it linked to President Clinton's meeting in Beijing with Chinese President Jiang Zemin.
"There had been improvements in the human rights situation in China, modest improvements," Mr. Foley said. The severe prison terms -- and other recent instances of harassment of democracy campaigners in China -- are "steps backward in relationship to what had been an improved human rights performance," he said.
Critics of the Administration's China policy noted that the long prison sentences were handed out less than a week after President Jiang delivered a pointed speech in Beijing in which he made clear that China's economic reforms were not a prelude to Western-style democracy.
"The Western mode of political systems must never be copied," he said, adding that those who challenged the Communist Party's supremacy would be crushed.
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who has long been among China's harshest critics in Congress, said that the prison sentences were "the clearest demonstration" since the President's visit to China last summer of Beijing's "true intentions regarding human rights."
"The Administration can say what it wants, but it must know today that its policy on China is an embarrassment," she added. "What the Chinese have learned is that they have all the latitude in the world."
Mike Jendrzejczyk, Washington director for Human Rights Watch, said the jail terms were proof of the need for the Administration to revise its China policy, which he described as "almost entirely" driven by the Administration's desire to encourage trade.
He said that while there had been some signs of progress in the human rights situation in China over the last year -- notably, China's agreement to sign international treaties on civil and economic rights -- the overall picture was bleak.
"On balance," he said, "any progress China has made by allowing greater openness may have been canceled out by a more repressive attitude."
Human Rights Watch, the largest American-based human rights group, called on the Administration to consider postponing or canceling a planned visit to China early next year by Commerce Secretary William M. Daley and a high-level trade delegation. "That would get Beijing's attention," Mr. Jendrzejczyk said.
Other China experts and scholars insisted that the Administration was right to continue its policy of engagement with China, and that there was reason to believe that political reform would follow economic reform.
Peter W. Rodman, a former Nixon and Reagan Administration official now at the Nixon Center in Washington, said that "the United States cannot control the evolution of a society as complex as China's."
"The pattern of this regime is that every once in a while, they ease up a bit and somebody goes too far and there's a crisis," he said. "I don't think you can blame the United States for this crackdown, nor can you give us credit for any political reforms. On human rights, I just don't think there's much more we can do."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICAL PRISONERS SENTENCING (93%); JAIL SENTENCING (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRISONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); 

PERSON: QIN YONGMIN; WANG YOUCAI; XU WENLI; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



498 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: To Retain Military Talent, Pentagon Proposes Raises and Increase in Benefits

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Hoping to make a career in the military more enticing, the Pentagon today proposed raises as large as 9.9 percent for mid-career officers and noncommissioned officers as part of a sweeping package that calls for the largest increases in military pay and pensions since 1982.
President Clinton has already announced his intention to increase military salaries by 4.4 percent for all 1.4 million soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines, starting in January 2000. But the Pentagon's proposal would earmark additional raises for those officers and enlisted personnel whose experience and training have made them highly sought after in the civilian marketplace and who the Pentagon says have been quitting the armed services in droves. 
 The largest increases will go to majors, lieutenant colonels and colonels in the Army, Air Force and Marines and their equivalents in the Navy -- lieutenant commanders, commanders and captains -- who have served 6 to 14 years. The Pentagon estimated that more than one million troops would receive anywhere from half a percent to 5.5 percent above the base increase.
Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, announced the increases as part of a package that also included an increase in retirement benefits. They described the increases as vital to recruiting qualified officers and enlisted personnel -- and keeping them in the armed services at a time when the economy is churning along.
"We want the best that we can attract, and we are working in an environment in which it's very hard to compete against a robust economy such as we have," Mr. Cohen said.
The White House immediately released a statement from Mr. Clinton endorsing the proposed changes. Congress still must approve any of the changes, but that is considered likely because there is broad bipartisan support when it comes to pay and troops. Last year, for example, the Clinton Administration proposed a 3.1 percent increase, and Congress raised it to 3.9 percent.
Taken together, the raises are the largest since a newly elected President Reagan approved increases of 14.3 percent for officers and 10 percent to 17 percent for enlisted personnel.
The raises and changes in retirement will cost $30 billion over six years. That is more than a quarter of the $112 billion increase the Pentagon has asked President Clinton to approve in his next budget, including $10 billion above the Department of Defense's projected $258 billion budget for the fiscal year that begins next October.
Although he has supported the raises, Mr. Clinton and his budget aides have objected to a $10 billion real increase. Instead, officials said, the Department of Defense will receive between $3 billion and $5 billion, significantly less but still the first real increase in defense spending, adjusted for inflation, since 1991 when spending spiked for the Persian Gulf war.
Mr. Cohen declined to discuss the overall budget, which the White House is expected to finish this week and unveil early next year. But he said he had received "a satisfactory solution" to the wrangling between Pentagon officials and Mr. Clinton's budget aides.
The Pentagon has tried for years to rewrite the pay table that sets pay by rank and years of service, which has become skewed by incremental changes since it was created after World War II. For example, officers receive their single largest pay raises not for any promotion up the ranks but rather for reaching their third year of service -- a legacy of the Vietnam era, when the Pentagon was trying to persuade officers not to quit after completing their three-year commissions.
But previous proposals never advanced, largely because they required some ranks to take pay cuts for others to receive raises. The new proposal would insure that no one received a cut, although some will receive more than others.
Raises will also more closely mirror both years of service and promotions. For example, a major with two years experience will receive a 4.4 percent increase next year, but a major with six years will receive 9.9 percent instead.
For the major with six years of experience -- just at the point when he or she is deciding whether to make a career of military service -- pay will rise to $3,798.60 a month, $342.30 more than today.
"This is going to enable us to do a better job in rewarding performance, compensating people for their skills, their education, their experience, and also to encourage them to continue their military service," Mr. Cohen said.
The proposed changes in pensions would allow those with 20 years of service to retire with 50 percent of their salary as they did before 1986. Those who joined after that, when the military pension system was last rewritten, have faced the prospect of retiring with only 40 percent. At the time, the decrease had been intended to persuade people to serve longer in order to retire with higher pensions, but it had the opposite effect, convincing people that it was hardly worth serving 20 years for only 40 percent of their pay.
Staff Sgt. Daniel DeMilio, a 13-year-veteran of the Marine Corps who repairs helicopter radios and navigation equipment, said the increases would "bring things more in line with civilian pay."
"After doing a little math, I found that I'll be able to help out with my daughter's college fund," Staff Sergeant DeMilio said.
Then, he added a fundamental fact about a career in the military: "You're never going to be a millionaire."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WAGES AND SALARIES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS ARMED FORCES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ARMIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NAVIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



499 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Exchange Studies Move

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The New York Stock Exchange was poring over details yesterday of a plan to keep it in lower Manhattan, an exercise that has taken so much longer than expected that sources close to the talks are wary of predicting whether a deal will be wrapped in time for Christmas.
A spokesman for the exchange, the world's largest stock exchange and the economic heartbeat of New York, said there was nothing to say at present. On Friday, the official said that the exchange, where 600 million to 700 million shares change hands daily, looked forward to a speedy resolution. 
 New York State and New York City have offered the exchange a package, valued at up to $600 million, to keep it from moving to New Jersey, which reportedly tried to lure it across the Hudson River with as much as $1 billion.
The plan calls for the exchange to move across Broad Street from its present, landmark location, to a handful of lots now occupied by buildings, one of them residential, that would have to be razed.
The stock exchange's board had been expected to vote on the proposal on Dec. 3, but last-minute questions arose about security at the proposed new trading floor and the vote was postponed. The delay stunned city officials, who had looked for the board to accept at least a preliminary agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RELOCATIONS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



500 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: CONNECTICUT;
Group Offers Evidence On Children in Poverty

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
A report by a state human services group cites new figures to confirm reports that the number of children living in poverty in Connecticut continues to grow.
The report, released yesterday by the Connecticut Association for Human Services, noted that more than 126,000 state children were receiving free or reduced-price school meals, indicating nearly a quarter of the school population lives in poverty.
In May, the Annie E. Casey Foundation released a report that showed that 19 percent of state children under 18 lived in families with incomes below the Federal poverty level in 1995, up from 12 percent in 1985. 
 Doucette Cunningham of the human services association, the main author of the report, listed four factors as the biggest contributors to child poverty: single parenthood, low educational attainment, part-time employment or unemployment and low wages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN SERVICE GROUP INC (92%); CONNECTICUT ASSOCIATION FOR HUMAN SERVICES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT ASSOCIATION FOR HUMAN SERVICES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (94%); CHILD POVERTY (92%); POOR POPULATION (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); FAMILY (88%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998



501 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: As the Seas Are Depleted, the Future Is the Farm

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: DAVIS, Calif.

 BODY:
FOR two decades and more, Mats and Dafne Engstrom have been working on a project that he compares to making paper by planting a forest.
Their goal is to produce caviar comparable to that from the Caspian Sea -- specifically the variety known as osetra -- from the eggs of farm-raised California sturgeon. The process works well, and the need is evident given the critical problems with supplies from Russia. The difficulty is the slow-growing sturgeon, descendants of wild fish taken from the Sacramento River, which need a very long time to reach an age to produce roe. 
 While they watched and waited, the Engstroms have for several years been selling small quantities of California caviar, which they made from other people's farm-bred sturgeon, to restaurants like Charlie Trotter's in Chicago and Aqua in San Francisco. The boys in the back room are thrilled.
"The Russian osetra has a slightly more pronounced and concentrated flavor," said Michael Mina, the chef at Aqua. "The texture may be a tiny bit better, too, but the differences are very slight. And there are two huge advantages to the California product: it is affordable and consistent, whereas Russian caviar is either very unreliable these days or very expensive."
Mr. Trotter's verdict: "Perhaps not quite as opulent, but it has a lovely creaminess and headiness, and the reliability is vastly superior."
Now, after endless experiments and adventures, and not a few failures, the Engstroms, both Swedish-born American citizens, are on the verge of producing the stuff in quantity at a tank farm they have almost completed in the wilds of northeastern California.
A second company, Stolt Sea Farms, part of an international group, is in the same business, already selling caviar under the brand name Sterling. It grew out of a firm the Engstroms started but lost after a string of economic reverses, and in which, maybe for sentimental reasons, they retain a tiny holding.
"We keep swimming upstream," said Mr. Engstrom, whose whimsical good humor survived his years at the Harvard Business School and a fire a few years back that nearly wiped him out. "By the start of the caviar harvesting season in February of next year, we will be ready to take about one ton of caviar from our female sturgeon."
The timing could hardly be better. The United States is cut off from Iranian caviar for political reasons, and quality control has collapsed in Russia and the other former Soviet republics bordering the Caspian. After indicting a New York company called Gino International last week on charges that it illicitly imported caviar from Poland, the Federal Government claimed that half the caviar brought into the United States is mislabeled, old, previously frozen or contaminated.
Worse, Caspian sturgeon, many caught by impoverished peasants, are being killed for food long before they can produce the lucrative roe.
The Engstroms' California product, which should be on sale to the public sometime next year at prices a bit lower than its Russian counterpart, comes from a fish whose biological name, Acipenser transmontanus, betrays its close relationship to Caspian osetra, which is Acipenser gueldenstaedti. It will carry the brand name Tsar Nicoulai, like the Engstroms' caviar from the Amur River in China and from Russia.
"We've lived with these fish for 20 years, a third of our lives," Mrs. Engstrom said. "It's been a very long haul. If you knew all the hopes and fears and tears . . ."
The beluga from the Caspian, generally considered the ne plus ultra of the caviar world, comes from a fish called Huso huso; the Amur River caviar, marketed as giant beluga, comes from a close cousin called Huso dauricus. But many prefer osetra for its firmness and slight nuttiness of flavor.
America's lakes and rivers, including the Hudson, once teemed with sturgeon, whose roe was salted and sold (or in some saloons in San Francisco, given away). But by 1910, overfishing had done its ruinous work.
In California, commercial fishing for the white sturgeon in the Sacramento River, which flows into San Francisco Bay, was outlawed in 1917.
State authorities allow the capture of a few wild fish each spring. These are taken into hatcheries where the eggs and milt are combined, yielding tens of thousands of fingerlings. To induce spawning, the sturgeon are injected with a hormone taken from a carp's pituitary gland. Sometimes a few fingerlings are returned to the wild, but most of them are kept for aquaculture.
A Russian expert, Serge I. Doroshov, happened to arrive at the University of California campus at Davis, near Sacramento, in 1978.
Later, as the director of the Aquaculture and Fisheries Program here, he did some of the pioneering work on how best to produce caviar from farmed fish. U.C. Davis, already known as the fountainhead of winemaking knowledge in the state, added another distinction.
Mr. Engstrom, who is now 61 years old, and his wife, now 60, had begun in aquaculture by raising crayfish for sale to Sweden, where they are a traditional late-summer delicacy. But it was a seasonal business, so the Engstroms hit upon importing caviar instead of exporting crayfish.
Their company, California Sunshine Fine Foods, started importing from Russia. Then, one day, a fisherman in California mentioned to Mr. Engstrom that he caught sturgeon. He fed the roe, he said, to the family cats. Mr. Engstrom filed that tidbit away.
The Engstroms set up a processing plant in China, in a site so remote that getting there required a two-day trip in an unheated train, a Jeep ride and a ferry crossing. They embarked on a Russian joint venture. At almost every turn, they said, they faced double-dealing and theft, stonewalling apparatchiks and scheming bureaucrats. Caviar is big money. Everyone wants a taste.
And overfishing began to deplete the fish that lay the golden eggs.
"The Russians are destroying their resource, and the Chinese are close to the same thing," Mr. Engstrom said. "So after a while we decided that farmed fish were the only answer."
Professor Doroshov, a sprightly, gray-haired man with the grace of a ballet master, said he doubted whether there were more than a handful of beluga sturgeon left in the Caspian, owing to disease and to overfishing.
Asked whether California caviar would ever measure up to the Russian original, he emphasized that sturgeon aquaculture was still in its formative stage, that much more time and money would be needed and that farmed fish like trout, tilapia and salmon never exactly matched wild fish in flavor.
But he added: "I don't see any reason from a scientific point of view that California caviar cannot very closely replicate Caspian caviar. And who is to say that we will have any Russian caviar left in a few years?"
In 1995, the Engstroms cured their first batch of 400 pounds of California caviar, adapting the techniques they had learned elsewhere. They salted the roe very lightly, mimicking the Russian process called malossol, which means "little salt." The eggs came from fish raised by a Sacramento-area farmer, Ken Beer; by then, the Engstroms had lost their own original farm.
Like a medieval alchemist intent on preserving his formulas from rivals, Mr. Engstrom is unwilling to disclose to outsiders the precise location of his big new operation, with 60 tanks, each holding 70,000 gallons of water, or precisely what techniques he plans to use there. But a small experimental tank farm near here, run by the university, gives a reasonable idea.
The big, dark fish swim constantly in circles around tanks 4 feet deep and 20 feet in diameter, each filled with rapidly flowing water. It is recycled to nearby farmlands, not back into the tanks; when he tried that, Mr. Engstrom said, "the fish hated it, and to spite us, refused to grow." Now, well-acclimated, the fish are fed 24 hours a day by mechanical devices that dispense brown pellets that resemble Dog Chow, physically and nutritionally.
In the wild, many sturgeon take as much as 25 years before reproducing. But with warmer water temperatures -- Mr. Engstrom plans to use geothermal energy from hot springs -- and with a high-protein diet, the time can be cut to seven to nine years, he believes. It is an economically crucial point, because every batch of caviar costs the life of a female sturgeon, so a fingerling must be raised to maturity to replace it. The shorter the cycle, the cheaper.
Sturgeon meat is delicious both fresh and smoked, and the Engstroms hope to make a dent in that market, too, which is now dominated by Atlantic sturgeon.
The fish in the tanks here, about four to five feet long, weigh about 25 to 30 pounds. With barbels like catfish and five long, bony ridges called scutes along their backs, bellies and sides, the sturgeon resemble sharks. The two fish are not related biologically, but both of them have blunt noses, widely spaced eyes and skeletons made mostly of cartilage instead of bone.
Why, I asked Erik F. Hallen Jr., who runs the experimental station, are the sturgeon called white when they are black? "Sunburn," he said. They are shielded from the sun in the murky Sacramento River, but the tanks are open to the skies, and the sunlight turns their skins a much darker color.
They are primitive fish; sturgeon fossils 200 million years old have been uncovered. They are frightening-looking; it is hard to imagine something as gastronomically aristocratic as caviar coming from their innards.
But then truffles grow underground, on gnarled old tree roots.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FLYING FISH -- Small sturgeon are tossed up into a transporting tank at the aquaculture farm at the University of California at Davis. (Don Preisler for The New York Times)(pg. F6); FAR FROM RUSSIA -- Mats Engstrom raises sturgeon in tanks at his farm in northern California. (Don Preisler for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); CASPIAN SEA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; RUSSIA; DAVIS (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); CASPIAN SEA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; STURGEON (FISH); CAVIAR; FISH FARMING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) FISHES (90%); FARM LABOR (78%); AQUACULTURE (77%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (77%); FINFISH FARMING (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (64%); INDICTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; ENGSTROM, MATS; ENGSTROM, DAFNE

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



502 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Buying Beluga and Osetra

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL 

 BODY:
CAVEAT emptor.
The wild fluctuation in caviar prices is equaled only by the inconsistency of the quality of caviar available this season. In anonymous tasting of beluga and osetra at 22 retail vendors in Manhattan in the last month, I found only 8 stores whose caviar was fresh, in good condition and well worth its price.
At the 14 other shops, the caviar ranged from disappointing, with a slightly "off" flavor and mushy texture, to badly spoiled, with a flavor somewhere between a rotten egg and a decayed fish. Caviar that tastes or smells this way is a health hazard. 
 I'd happily return to purchase caviar at any of the following places:
BAGEL BARON -- 315 West 57th Street. One of the few retail spots that sells moderately priced caviar whose quality is well beyond moderate. One ounce beluga, $32.50; one ounce osetra, $28.
BERGDORF GOODMAN -- 754 Fifth Avenue (58th Street). Sells Restaurant Daniel's private stock. The caviar is fresh, oceanic, quite buttery and worth the price. Fifty grams beluga (about 1 3/4 ounces), $145; 50 grams gold osetra, $100.
DEAN & DELUCA -- 560 Broadway (Prince Street). Tiffany prices, but unlike other high-priced vendors, this market offers sparkling and nearly flawless caviar from Kazakhstan. One ounce beluga, $64; one ounce osetra, $36.
GOURMET GARAGE -- 301 East 64th Street; 2567 Broadway (96th Street); 117 Seventh Avenue South (10th Street); 453 Broome Street (Mercer Street). Low-priced caviar that pleases, rather than punishes. One ounce beluga, $32.95; one ounce osetra, $14.95.
PETROSSIAN -- 182 West 58th Street. The beluga is sweet, meltingly tender and creamy; the osetra is remarkably fresh and fruity. Fifty grams beluga, $125; 50 grams osetra, $75.
RUSS AND DAUGHTERS -- 179 East Houston Street (Orchard Street). One of the few sources of less expensive caviar (from Astrakhan) that tastes fresh and clean. The muddy, dusty sensations associated with economy caviar are less pronounced than usual. Fifty grams beluga, $69.95; 50 grams osetra, $39.95.
ELI'S VINEGAR FACTORY -- 431 East 91st Street. The osetra in particular is remarkably sweet and clean. Two ounces beluga, $55; two ounces osetra, $40.
WILLIAM POLL -- 1051 Lexington Avenue (75th Street). An ounce of very buttery, creamy beluga is $50; one ounce osetra, $37.50.
There are also several reliable mail-order suppliers, which all ship overnight via Federal Express:
BROWNE TRADING COMPANY -- (800) 944-7848. Sterling American caviar, $35 an ounce; beluga, $60 an ounce; osetra, $35 an ounce. Plus shipping.
PARAMOUNT CAVIAR -- (800) 992-2842. Beluga, $45 an ounce; osetra, $29.50 an ounce. Plus shipping.
PETROSSIAN -- (800) 828-9241. Beluga, $125 for 50 grams; osetra, $75 for 50 grams. Plus shipping.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); KAZAKHSTAN (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); KAZAKHSTAN (69%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; CAVIAR GOURMET FOOD STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



503 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: For Caviar, A New World Order

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL 

 BODY:
A CAVIAR connoisseur is someone who relishes the various. Bursting between the tongue and the roof of the mouth, caviar never tastes the same. Its flavor varies from fish to fish, region to region, season to season. That is part of its allure.
But this year the variety is less alluring than it is baffling. The world of caviar -- from the harvesting to the selling to the buying and tasting -- has degenerated into chaos. 
 The market is glutted with stale, substandard caviar shipped before more stringent import regulations took effect in April, although fresh, pristine caviar imported since then is also available. For the first time, a significant amount of caviar is being imported from China. Add the growing amount of farm-raised caviar from California, Russia and France, and you get an array of choices that can be thrilling -- and confusing.
Fortunately, the confusion is mostly a symptom of transition. The new regulations from the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, or Cites (the acronym is pronounced SIGHT-ease), seek to protect the threatened sturgeon by regulating its harvesting and the taking of its caviar. By April 1999, people in the industry say, the substandard caviar predating the regulations will be gone. Labeling will be clearer, quality will be more consistent and prices will reflect the grade of the eggs.
Unfortunately, buying caviar this season is complicated, and a mistake can be costly: beluga is going for as much as $150 an ounce. "What's so great about this?" is a perceptive response to the taste of most caviar being sold in New York right now.
And if all that weren't enough, last week three distributors were indicted on Federal charges of smuggling illegal caviar into the United States.
News like this compounds the confusion that has surrounded caviar since the breakup of the Soviet Union, the source of most caviar. Before, a central authority controlled the caviar industry and protected the sturgeon stock and, ultimately, the consumer. Today the Caspian Sea waters that were regulated are worked by fishermen from two independent republics (Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan) and two Russian regions (Astrakhan and Degestan), producing caviar whose taste and quality are completely unpredictable. Overfishing and poaching are rife, as are unskilled handling and processing of the precious roe.
Because of the American trade embargo against Iran, no Iranian caviar can be legally imported into the country, but some caviar dealers are nevertheless using the Iranian grading system as a marketing tool. Triple-zero beluga was the best, double-zero second best, single-zero runner-up; A-rated osetra was top-grade, B something less. Sevruga was graded 1 (best) and 2 (second best). But those grades are not reliable indicators of quality. Even the Russian term malossol, which means "little salt," is a marketing tool; the saltiness varies widely from tin to tin.
In addition to anarchy on the banks of the Caspian, there are the newcomers. China has developed a caviar industry that is shipping tons of caviar to the United States this year. Fishermen along the Mississippi River are landing hackleback sturgeon, and the roe from those fish is being sold as caviar, along with that of paddlefish from the Great Lakes. Stolt Sea Farms in Sacramento, Calif., has developed some excellent caviar from farm-raised sturgeon, as have five tiny sturgeon farms in France and Russia.
Some retailers are trying to wedge these new varieties into the three traditional classes of caviar -- beluga, osetra and sevruga -- thus diminishing the meaning of those terms. Other retailers are coining names like Royal Black for the new caviars, which may be poetic but say little about the taste, quality or provenance of the roe.
In an attempt to clarify the meaning of the traditional terms, and to assess the most serious contenders among the new types of caviar, I recently convened a panel of six tasters to compare 16 types.
To compose the panel, I surveyed a dozen of Manhattan's top chefs for the caviar tasters and purveyors they most trusted, and combined their suggestions with my own experience buying caviar over 15 years in Manhattan. The panelists were Eric Ripert, the chef of Le Bernardin; Eve Vega, the president of American operations for Petrossian, which has offices in Paris and New York; Hossein Aimani, the owner of Paramount Caviar in Manhattan; Rod Mitchell, an owner of the Browne Trading Company in Portland, Me.; Florence Fabricant, who writes about food for The New York Times, and myself. We sampled wholesale specimens, which are often repackaged under a retailer's own name.
We found that 1998 is not a good year for sevruga, the scarcest caviar right now, but is fairly good for osetra and beluga, the top types, from Kazakhstan. The quality of Astrakhan caviar is inconsistent. And we were stunned to find the Sterling caviar, which comes from farm-raised sturgeon in California, comparable to the best osetra.
But the main object of the tasting was not to rank the samples -- indeed, we tasted only the best caviar that is available. Our effort was to identify the characteristics of the main types of caviar being sold in New York City today, and to compile a sort of Baedeker of caviar -- a guide to buying, selecting and enjoying the season's ultimate indulgence.
 
Buying Techniques
Would you buy a diamond without seeing it? Don't buy caviar without sampling it first, and don't be intimidated -- it is customary to ask for a taste. And if you don't like what you taste, don't buy it.
Fresh caviar should glisten; upon close inspection, the eggs should be luminous, pert-looking and consistent in size and color. If they look noticeably different, different grades of caviar may have been mixed together and the offering inaccurately labeled and overpriced. Smashed or misshapen eggs are likely to have been mishandled or frozen.
Caviar should not smell fishy. The grains should be firm, but not rubbery or tough. Hard grains usually mean that the caviar has been pasteurized, which destroys its integrity.
For higher-priced caviars, the purveyor should be able to show you a copy of his Cites permit, which includes a detailed account of where the fish was harvested and processed. (The fish will be identified by its Latin name -- Huso huso instead of beluga, for instance). If you are spending top dollar, you are paying for freshness; you want evidence that it was harvested last spring.
 
Tasting Techniques
Use small spoons made of bone or mother-of-pearl, which do not affect the flavor of caviar. (Most metal spoons impart unpleasant metallic notes; even plastic is preferable.)
Before tasting, inhale the aroma; there should be very little. Then slip the caviar into your mouth. As it sits on your tongue, pull a little air into your mouth, close your eyes and, without hesitation or any attempt at delicacy, crush the eggs by forcing them against the roof of your mouth.
The immediate taste should be oceanic. The middle sensations should evoke earthier things: fruit, nuts, even truffles. The final sensation should be a slight brininess, tinged with the sort of coppery nuance of a Belon oyster. The overall impression is the balance of the disparate sensations in the mouth. This final equation lingers; don't rush to a conclusion.
 
The Varieties
BELUGA -- (Huso huso, $50 to $150 an ounce). The king of the 27 varieties of sturgeon that produce edible roe, beluga has a snub nose and the appearance of a pit bull. It can grow 20 feet long and weigh a ton. It takes 15 to 20 years to reach maturity, lives about 150 years and can contain up to 15 percent of its body weight in roe.
The conditions in the Caspian Sea, where temperatures can become tropical in the day and freezing at night, seem to produce the most succulent beluga.
At its best, beluga caviar is pale to steel gray; the eggs are the largest, and perhaps the most tender. The texture is buttery, and the flavor is the most delicate of all caviar; it should taste less salty than oceanic. Beluga can have hints of nuts or fruit and can finish with a subtle copper taste or a delicate herbaceous flavor, depending on its origin.
This year's beluga from Kazakhstan, a seat of the caviar industry from the days of the Czars, has a nice bead that tends to be quite large. The flavor is very, very buttery; the texture creamy; the overall impression sultry and deep.
Beluga from Astrakhan can be the most pronounced in flavor, yet most subtle of all. But production difficulties have made the supply inconsistent this year.
Russian beluga is almost always from the old Guryev fishery and is milder and mushier this year than beluga from Kazakhstan or Astrakhan. While the fruitiness is pronounced, it tastes more acidic than delicate.
Beluga from the Sea of Azov is very mixed in quality this year. It tends to have a small egg, closer to black than gray. While it can have a mild, creamy taste, the muddy flavors of the egg tend to overpower all other nuances.
Beluga from the Amur River, which forms a part of the Russian-Chinese border, is not impressive. The eggs vary and tend to be smallish and very separate, with a greenish hue. They have a sharp, herbaceous taste that is not unpleasant, but not buttery, either. If the taster were not expecting the rich creaminess of a Caspian beluga, Amur River caviar might represent a whole new tasty, affordable world.
OSETRA -- (Acipenser gueldenstaedti, $14.50 to $75 an ounce). The fish has an elongated jawbone like a swordfish and can grow to seven feet long and about 400 pounds. It reaches maturity in 12 years, lives about 40 years and can contain nearly three pounds of roe. Chefs tend to prefer osetra to beluga: the egg is firmer, and the color varies from gold to dark brown. Osetra is rich and nutty tasting.
Kazakhstan has produced a large quantity of osetra this year. It has a large, light-colored bead, often tortoise-shell in tone, with a rich hazelnut flavor and a clean, smooth, oceanic taste.
Russian osetra from Guryev comes in two distinct types this year. One has a smaller bead, with a pronounced briny flavor and tart finish. It tastes peppy and young, but doesn't have its usual voluptuousness. The other has a big, voluptuous bead, a tawny color and a rich, almondy taste.
Osetra from the Amur River is very mixed in quality but has been steadily improving as China's processing improves. Caviar labeled Amur River most likely comes from China, and like the beluga, the osetra grade is typically fresh and sprightly. It's a nice, easy-eating caviar -- good but very different from its Caspian Sea cousins.
FARMED AMERICAN STURGEON -- (Acipenser transmontanus, $35 an ounce). Domestic caviar has come into its own this year. Virtually all of it comes from Stolt Sea Farms in Sacramento, whose top grade is called Sterling caviar and is comparable to Kazakhstan osetra in both quality and price. The bead is small and firm, with a lively pop, a subtle hint of the sea and a deep, pronounced hazelnut flavor. The color ranges from violet to a nearly cream-colored gold, touching all the steely and tawny points between.
SHIP -- (Acipenser nudiventris, $12 to $23 an ounce). The ship, a Caspian Sea sturgeon, is being most closely monitored because its numbers are dwindling. It is traditionally mixed with osetra or sevruga. This year, with mixing illegal, some ship caviar is being sold on its own. It falls between osetra and sevruga in appearance, but has a flavor like that of sevruga -- intense, but with an odd and indefinable musty, dusty aftertaste. The bead tends to be quite dark and small.
SEVRUGA -- (Acipenser stellatus, $7 to $25 an ounce). This is the smallest of the three sturgeon that produce luxury caviars, at a little over five feet and 70 pounds. It matures in seven years but produces precious little caviar, an average of a little over 11 pounds per fish. Because it matures young, sevruga sustained the most damage from overfishing after the breakup of the Soviet Union and is therefore the most likely to be mixed with ship caviar, or roe from American hackleback or paddlefish.
The best comes from Russia this year: tiny, glittering, nearly black eggs with a characteristically intense flavor, deep on the briny side, with a dark, dangerous sexiness as opposed to the languid sensuality of both beluga and osetra. Very, very little good sevruga is available.
KALUGA -- (Huso dauricus, $15 to $25 an ounce). This sturgeon is harvested from the Amur River; if it is landed on the eastern banks, it is Chinese; on the western banks, Russian. The eggs are firm, large and beautiful; they seem to glow a deep olive green and tortoise. Their taste is less breathtaking: lighter, fresher and younger than Caspian beluga. Kaluga shares part of its Latin name with beluga and is often mislabeled either beluga or osetra, depending on the size of its egg.
PRESSED CAVIAR -- (About $15 an ounce). A jammy confection made of broken beluga, osetra and sevruga, this can be very good indeed. If you plan to cook with it -- in an omelet, as a topping for potatoes, as a filling for crepes or even blini -- pressed caviar is an economical option. Unfortunately, very little good-quality pressed caviar is available this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DARK GOLD -- Oestra caviar from Paramount Caviar on ice at Le Bernardin. On the spoons: oestra and sevruga. (Photographs by Katrina De Leon for The New York Times)(pg. F1); A TOUGH JOB, BUT... Hossein Aimani, Eve Vega and Rod Mitchell tasting caviar. (Martin De Leon for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PARAMOUNT CAVIAR (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARAMOUNT CAVIAR (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; RUSSIA; FRANCE; CALIFORNIA; CHINA; CASPIAN SEA; FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; STURGEON (FISH); CAVIAR; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FISH FARMING; LABELING AND LABELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PROTECTION AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); FISHES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); MARINE PRODUCTS GATHERING (89%); AQUACULTURE (77%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (77%); FINFISH FARMING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (69%); INDICTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



504 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN FALLS. The Japanese currency fell as bond yields rose, threatening Government plans to revive the nation's economy. In New York, the dollar traded at 116.65 yen, up from 116.21 yen on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since June, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY JAPANESE YEN (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (88%); BONDS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



505 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Leaving Rates Alone, FedShifts to Neutral as Sense of Crises Eases

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve voted today to hold interest rates steady, judging that three rate reductions in the fall had given the economy a big enough kick to keep it growing at a healthy pace into the new year.
The central bank's decision to shift monetary policy into neutral is the latest sign that the sense of crisis felt by economic policy makers in the United States and worldwide over the summer is easing. 
 Although analysts still expect the American economy to slow substantially in 1999, perhaps enough to require further rate cuts next year, the continuation of the nation's long expansion no longer appears to be in any immediate danger.
Neither the impeachment of President Clinton nor the military attack on Iraq dented the confidence of investors on Wall Street or shoppers in the malls. Growth in the current quarter appears robust. Fears of a credit squeeze in the bond market have abated. And while manufacturers and farmers still suffer from exports lost as a result of the financial turmoil of the last year and a half, the latest trade figures suggested that the worst may be past, even for them.
"When they reviewed all the factors -- the domestic economy, credit availability and the foreign situation -- it is noteworthy that the Fed concluded this time that those factors did not look as worrisome as they had looked," said Maury N. Harris, an economist at Paine Webber. "It's significant that in such a short period of time the world improved enough that they didn't feel the need to ease any further."
Today's decision leaves the Federal funds target rate, for overnight loans among banks, at 4.75 percent and the discount rate, on loans from the Fed system to banks, at 4.5 percent. The decision to stand pat, after reducing the Federal funds rate by a total of three-quarters of a percentage point in three autumn rate cuts, had been widely anticipated, and it provoked little reaction on Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 55.61 points, to 9,044.46; bond prices and the dollar fell.
Looking into 1999, the situation abroad remains unsettled at best, creating considerable uncertainty as to the outlook for the American economy and for monetary policy.
Japan has proved unable to reverse its long economic decline. Russia's debt crisis is intensifying. Emerging markets from Thailand to Brazil are vulnerable to a recurrence of the financial seizures they suffered in the last year and a half.
As a result, economists said, the Fed will be watching closely for any renewed threats to stability at home and abroad, and could well begin cutting rates again in the first half of 1999. With inflation dormant and oil prices low, the Fed will have considerable leeway to cut rates to keep economic growth from falling below the level most economists think it can sustain over the long run, roughly 2.5 percent. This year the economy is likely to grow at nearly 4 percent.
"The feeling of an uncontrolled spiral in international capital markets as well as in economies in Asia and Latin America has abated a good bit," said Stuart G. Hoffman, an economist at the PNC Corporation.
Still, Mr. Hoffman sees a good chance that the Fed could cut rates again by spring. The policy-making Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet next on Feb. 2-3, and then on March 30.
"The economy will be slowing," he said. "The consumer inflation rate will remain low and be accompanied by continued declines in basic commodity prices. And there will still be some mildly unsettled conditions in financial markets."
On the other hand, a few forecasters, citing the economy's remarkable resilience and its recent history of defying predictions of an imminent slowdown, are predicting that the Fed might have to raise rates during 1999 to pinch off growing inflationary pressures. But that view remains very much in the minority.
The Fed cut rates three times, by a quarter of a percentage point each time, between Sept. 29 and Nov. 17. After the last cut, though, the Fed signaled that it would probably take a time out, saying it expected financial conditions "to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion."
Since then most indicators have pointed toward faster economic growth than was anticipated a few months ago, when the financial markets were in turmoil and economists were beginning to predict the demise of a business expansion that is now almost eight years old.
The strong stock market and solid increases in wages have bolstered consumer confidence and spending, more than offsetting the weakness in manufacturing. Despite a wave of corporate layoff announcements, job growth has remained strong.
"Combined with the surprising narrowing in the trade deficit, a full accounting of the data thus far for the current quarter suggests that G.D.P. is moving up in the range of 3 percent to 4 percent," Salomon Smith Barney economists wrote recently.
But problems abroad -- including signs of economic weakness in Europe -- are likely to leave Fed policy makers wary, their report stated, adding, "Against this backdrop, the U.S. economy remains much more vulnerable than the latest consumer and external trade data imply."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); THAILAND (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); THAILAND (51%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); IMPEACHMENT (54%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



506 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow and S.& P. Advance, but Nasdaq and Russell Drop

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed in fairly light trading yesterday, but Treasury prices posted their biggest decline in six weeks, pushed down by a flow of money from bonds to stocks and a selloff of Japanese bonds..
With Christmas and New Year fast approaching, analysts were reluctant to attribute much significance to the recent swings in financial markets. 
 Stock prices, which had moved higher the last three sessions, were mixed yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average edged above 9,000, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched to a new record.
But profit taking in technology stocks dragged down the Nasdaq composite index. And small company shares were weaker. Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange was relatively light, at just more than 680 million shares.
The Dow rose 55.61 points, or six-tenths of a percent, to 9,044.46. The blue-chip gauge was helped by gains in big consumer stocks like Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola, drug stocks like Merck and another big jump in the price of I.B.M.
Meanwhile, the S.& P. 500 gained 0.73 point, or less than one-tenth of a percent, to 1,203.57, eclipsing a record set on Monday.
Profit taking in technology stocks like Intel and Microsoft led the Nasdaq index lower. At the close, the Nasdaq was off 17.05 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 2,120.98. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies declined 1.59 points, or four-tenths of a percent, to 400.24.
"We are coasting on our own momentum into the holidays," said Bill Allyn, head of listed trading at Jefferies & Company.
"For now, stocks and bonds appear somewhat uncoupled," he added. "But bonds have had such a good rally that you would expect a bit of a pullback."
In the credit markets, Treasury prices recorded their largest drop in six weeks. While a sharp selloff in the Japanese fixed-income market may have contributed, analysts in New York said the decline just as likely reflected the decision by money managers to shift money into stocks from bonds.
By late yesterday, the price of the benchmark 30-year bond had fallen 1 7/32 , to 101 24/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.13 percent, from 5.06 percent on Monday.
Bonds reached their lows late in the day after the Federal Reserve, as expected, decided not to lower short-term interest rates.
"Bond yields are in a trading range of 4.75 percent to 5.25 percent," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Asset Management. "That is where we have been and where we will be until the Fed cuts rates again. No one expects that to happen anytime soon."
Among the consumer stocks that are part of the Dow average, Coca-Cola rose 1 11/16 , to 67 7/16 ; Merck was up 3 5/16 , to 147 3/8, and P.& G. gained 2 3/4, to 90.
I.B.M., which rose to a record on Monday, hit another high yesterday, closing at 182 1/4, up 5 7/8.
Profit taking hurt other large technology companies, however.
Intel dropped 3 5/8, to 199 1/16 . And Microsoft lost 2, to 138 7/16 .
"Since early October, many of the biggest tech stocks have doubled in value," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany. "It was encouraging to see a round of profit taking there that the market absorbed very well."
Discouraging earnings forecasts pushed down prices of some industrial companies.
Case, the nation's second-largest farm equipment manufacturer, and Hercules, a big specialty chemicals company, both fell after warning that profits would not meet expectations.
Case fell 5/8, to 19 13/16 . And Hercules dropped 2 7/16 , to 26 3/16.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Dec. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); KO (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (66%); INTEL CORP (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



507 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Service Takes a Holiday;
These Days the Customer Isn't Always Treated Right

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
At the Container Store, a Dallas-based chain that specializes in storage products and closet organizers, employees do far more than ring up sales. They are trained to think of themselves as counselors or problem-solvers -- whether the issue is a shared closet that must house one spouse's 34 pairs of shoes or a child's room spilling over with an unmanageable number of toys.
"We've had customers come up to us and say, 'This is better than a visit to my shrink,' " said Garrett Boone, the chief executive. 
 The company, which has 19 stores around the country, considers customer service a "core competency," not a frill, and trains salespeople for 185 hours the first year; the industry average is below 10. And the company often hires its best customers, maintaining that people who are not actively looking for a job turn out to be great employees.
But the Container Store's approach, alas, is a rare exception. For most of America, customer service frequently remains an oxymoron, though there are signs that some stores are paying more attention to the problem. Staffs have been cut in the heat of competitive battle, and salespeople who remain are often less than stellar -- since with joblessness down, good workers have higher-paying options.
And while this is a year-round problem, it is especially acute in the frenzied holiday season. At this time of year, hordes of shoppers confront temporary salespeople, who may be the least well trained of all.
Judging from shoppers' stories, many encounters with sales "help" turn decidedly sour. When customers do have a good experience, it must seem like a rarity, for they often feel compelled to remark on it.
As gauged by a University of Michigan index, customer-service satisfaction has dropped steadily the last few years. The rate of satisfaction among the 200,000 shoppers interviewed remains far below what it was in 1994, said Claes Fornell, a professor of business administration who oversees the American Customer Satisfaction Index. "You have fewer people serving more customers," he said, adding that he has had his own run-ins with airlines and cable companies, "and the result is usually worse service."
Some stores that have had cutbacks have little to offer workers in terms of training or pay. Others have apparently failed to anticipate what customers might need.
"I was at one store that had good service, to the point that the guy kind of hovered around me," said Inna Hagen, an actress and lawyer in Manhattan, "but then they didn't have gift wrap, which was annoying when you're shopping for Christmas presents. They charged me $6 for a ribbon.
"I expect good service," she added, "but I think you don't get it a lot of the time."
At the Container Store, "We know we are just wild-eyed fanatics when it comes to human resources and training," said Kip Tindell, the chief operating officer, who founded the company with Mr. Boone 20 years ago. "It is the most difficult and the most joyous part of the retail business, and most people avoid it like the plague." The company says it makes a hefty profit, too, though it is privately held and does not make such information public.
Service Intelligence, an Atlanta consulting firm that is hired to place spies -- or "mystery shoppers," as they prefer to call them -- in stores to see how well managed everything is, has a site on the Worldwide Web: (www.serviceintelligence.com) stocked with horror stories sent in by consumers. Some of the most outrageous incidents occurred in retail stores.
"While visiting a department store, I was amazed at how the only salesperson in the area was chatting on the telephone," one consumer reported. (Neither shoppers nor stores are named on the Web site.) "I roamed around the department near the counter trying to catch her attention. This didn't work. Finally, I approached the counter and stood directly in front of her. She refused to make eye contact and actually turned away from me. At this point, I stormed out of the store, vowing never to return."
Much of the deterioration is the result of price wars, which prompted one executive after another to zero in on customer service as an expendable luxury. "It's been a huge mistake for many of these retailers," said Leonard L. Berry, a professor at Texas A & M University's Center for Retailing Studies, who is about to publish a book, "Discovering the Soul of Service," which examines businesses that have effective customer service.
"They cut costs in order to cut prices, in order to compete with the Wal-Marts of the world," he said. "But they're not competing with the Wal-Marts anyway, and they'd be better off serving their particular customers. Price is price, but value is the total experience, and the best companies compete on the total experience shoppers have."
Many customers said they would often be satisfied with a little basic information, such as having a sales clerk tell them fairly quickly how soon they are likely to be waited on.
Some stores manage to maintain their islands of civility. At Saks Fifth Avenue, salespeople have been known to write thank-you notes to shoppers after they make purchases -- even if the purchases are less than spectacular. Nordstrom maintains a sterling reputation for going out of its way to satisfy customers.
But those are the exceptions. In many cases, the nation's low unemployment rate has propelled would-be retail workers into higher-paying jobs elsewhere, leaving few options for stores that are hiring. "The big story this year is the employment crunch," said Bruce Van Kleeck, vice president of the National Retail Federation. "It's been challenging for three years, but this year is by far the worst, because this terrific economic situation the United States has been enjoying has been a double-edged sword for retailers."
That does not make shoppers any more sympathetic to salespeople. "The great majority of them are either totally incompetent or they need complete attitude adjustment because they think they are better than the customer," said Anne Goldrach of Manhattan, whose experiences made shopping on the Internet that much more attractive this year.
Joy Johnson, a Brooklyn College student, has seen the issue from both sides this month. As a part-time cashier at a Sears store in Brooklyn, she received four hours of training, which she says she considered enough for that job. But as a shopper, she has not always been treated kindly. After buying a set of glasses for her mother at Macy's and discovering that one was broken, she brought them back. "He gave me a hard time," she said of the sales clerk, who eventually agreed to exchange them. "He said maybe I had broken it. But I had had it only two days." Even so, Ms. Johnson rates her shopping experience this year "so far, so good."
A spokeswoman for Macy's, part of Federated Stores, said the clerk was probably trying to determine whether Miss Johnson wanted a refund or an exchange. "We certainly do not train our associates to tell our customers that they are not being trustworthy," said the spokeswoman, Ronnie Taffet, adding that the main store at Herald Square has been getting "some very positive results" in its year-old effort to improve customer service.
Peter Gurney, a vice president of Service Intelligence's research center in Seattle, blames the tight labor market for some problems but says training is essential, no matter who is brought aboard. And he thinks companies are starting to realize the need for better customer service.
"There's a groundswell for bringing it back," he said, "but a controversy about what people should be doing. Companies can absolutely differentiate themselves with it. But you can also spend millions without getting any return."
Professor Fornell points out that replacing human workers with technology has helped manufacturing and promoted growth. "But if you take the same idea and apply it to the service sector, which is so dependent on human interaction, it is much more difficult to do," he said. "It's not impossible. It is a question of education and of making technology better."
Knowing the products seems to be one of the biggest challenges. Kurt Barnard, who publishes Barnard's Retail Trend Report, cited an encounter he witnessed in a suburban mall between a sales clerk and a shopper.
"The lady wanted to buy one watch, a digital watch, which was $70 or $80," he said. "The salesperson did not know how to set that watch. And the salesperson did not know the difference between that watch and another watch that was less expensive, that the customer also liked. Third, the salesperson didn't know how to light the dial on the watch. The customer got a little frustrated and said, 'Can anyone help me here?' The salesperson said, 'Let me call my supervisor,' and then disappeared, never to return. Generally speaking, this is not unusual."
But companies that have decided to make sure employees understand what they are selling say it is a worthwhile investment. At Peet's Coffee, a chain based in Berkeley, Calif., employees are taught the subtle differences between various types of coffee and tea so they can explain them to customers. "We teach them so that they can discuss this intelligently," said Gerald Baldwin, the company's founder. "And our store volumes are much higher than anyone else's. We like to think it's the way we treat the customers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers at a mall in Boston search for Christmas bargains. With a few exceptions, the commitment to customer service has faltered in recent years as sharp competition requires that retailers trim costs. The trend's impact on consumers can be especially harsh during crowded holiday shopping. (Photographs by Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Are You Being Served?"
Shoppers have become increasingly dissatisfied with customer service at retailers, according to a survey of 200,000 shoppers. Graph plots the customer satisfaction index overall and for retail, from 1994 through 1998. (Sources: University of Michigan; Arthur Andersen; American Society for Quality)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONTAINER STORE INC CONTAINER STORE (74%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTAINER STORE INC UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS SALES FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); RETAILERS (78%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



508 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Computer Glitch to Delay Jobless Benefits for Some

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22

 BODY:
At least 11 states will miss next month's deadline to fix computers used to pay unemployment insurance, but the states are making stopgap arrangements to avoid any interruption of benefits, Federal officials said today.
The computer problems with unemployment insurance are similar to those that threaten many Federal and state government programs and business activities of corporations in the next two years, but the effects could come sooner in offices that send checks to unemployed workers. 
 A person filing a claim for jobless benefits typically has a year to draw all the checks to which he or she is entitled. The last day of this "benefit year" is recorded when an application is received. So computers must be able to handle dates with the year 2000, starting next month.
The Deputy Secretary of Labor, Kathryn O. Higgins, said the states lagging behind schedule were Arizona, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, New Mexico and Vermont.
In addition, she said, Connecticut and Louisiana are not yet ready, but have told Federal officials that they will make the necessary changes in their computers within 10 days. In the District of Columbia, problems are so severe that the Labor Department has assigned some of its employees to the city to make sure jobless benefits are paid next year.
John A. Koskinen, a White House official who supervises preparations for the year 2000, said unemployment insurance was one of the first Government programs that could be affected.
The year 2000 problem arises from early computer programmers often using a two-digit format to express the year. In such computer programs, 2000 is often indistinguishable from 1900. If the problem is not corrected, experts say, computers could produce inaccurate data or shut down.
A recent survey of the states by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, found that many were behind schedule in renovating their computers. Only one-third of the 421 computer systems used for seven major health, welfare and nutrition programs were ready for the year 2000.
Ms. Higgins said there would inevitably be "glitches" in the payment of jobless benefits next year. "Everybody expects that there will be some states where they don't catch everything," she said. "That's why we have contingency plans and backup systems.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); DOVER, DE, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); DOVER, DE, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (95%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%); ACCOUNTING (62%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (57%); NUTRITION (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; HIGGINS, KATHRYN O (DEPUTY SEC) ROBERT HIGGINS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



509 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Civilian Reactors Could Be Used to Make Warhead Material

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22

 BODY:
Facing shortage of a crucial component of nuclear warheads, the Energy Department announced today that it would use three of the Tennessee Valley Authority's electricity-producing reactors to make the material tritium.
The Energy Secretary, Bill Richardson, acknowledged today that the arrangement with the T.V.A., which is subject to Congressional approval, broke down a long-time distinction in the nuclear world, by using a civilian reactor for military purposes. 
 And, Mr. Richardson said, lining up the T.V.A.'s reactors did the most to encourage nuclear nonproliferation, because it eliminated the need for the United States to break ground on an expensive new military plant, which might be far larger than ever needed, to produce tritium if new arms control agreements are signed.
The department's last reactor for making tritium was shut down for safety reasons 10 years ago. Until now, the pace of weapons retirements has been faster the pace of tritium decay. But unless Russia approves a new arms control agreement soon, the United States will need new tritium in six years to sustain its arsenal because it will stop decommissioning the weapons that have been the nation's source of tritium for the past 10 years, experts say.
And, Mr. Richardson said, the Energy Department had used provisions of a 60-year-old law, the Economy Act, to require the T.V.A. to sell tritium at cost. Department officials said that if they had not been able to strike a deal with the T.V.A., they would have asked the Navy to requisition the reactors, under national security provisions.
In a test that began 15 months ago, the Energy Department is already making tritium at Watts Bar, near Knoxville, Tenn. The method does not reduce power output, engineers say, and they expect to convince the Nuclear Regulatory Commission quickly that it poses no additional risk of a meltdown. Some environmentalists have contended, though, that in case of a leak, the tritium would be a special hazard, because when it combines with oxygen it is chemically indistinguishable from water and cannot be filtered out.
The T.V.A. asked for $85 million a year to make tritium at three of its reactors. Mr. Richardson did not say today what the cost would be. But he said using the reactors, Watts Bar 1 and Sequoyah 1 and 2, near Chattanooga, is "the best option for our national security."
"It is a proven technology, it is the best deal by far for the taxpayer, and it has the flexibility to meet our present and future tritium needs," he said at a news conference.
If he had chosen a dedicated military plant, or a linear accelerator, construction would have had to begin soon, Mr. Richardson said. By relying on reactors already built, the work would be done only as needed.
"We may not need to exercise this option for many years," he said.
The Energy Department says it needs about 2.5 kilograms, or about 5.5 pounds, of tritium a year to maintain the current arsenal, beginning in 2005, and 1.5 kilograms if the strategic arms agreement with Russia, or Start 2, is approved, beginning in 2011.
The decision drew mixed reactions. Some arms proliferation specialists said it would undermine the United States' stand with other countries, when they are asked not to divert material from their civilian nuclear programs into bombs. The Energy Department contends that while they make this argument for plutonium, which is made in reactors and is the heart of a bomb, tritium is not controlled by law and cannot be used by itself to make a bomb.
The Alliance for Nuclear Accountability, a coalition of 28 environmental and peace groups, mostly around Energy Department weapons plants, says the decision is "unnecessary, undermines nonproliferation efforts, wastes taxpayer dollars, and threatens public health."
At the Nuclear Control Institute, a Washington-based group advocating nonproliferation, Paul Leventhal, the president, said using existing reactors was "the cheapest, most assured method of producing tritium on an as-needed basis." But he said the use of civilian reactors should be reserved for national emergencies.
Members of Congress from South Carolina wanted Mr. Richardson to build a linear accelerator at Savannah River; and some officials near the Hanford nuclear reservation in southern Washington state, wanted Mr. Richardson to use the Fast Flux Test Facility, a plutonium reactor there. Mr. Richardson said today that he would decide next year whether to permanently shut that plant, which began life as part of a research program for plants that would make plutonium.
But Mr. Richardson also announced today that the department would build a plant at Savannah River, near Aiken, S.C., for converting plutonium from warheads into a powder, an intermediate step toward destroying the plutonium.
The T.V.A. was also disappointed. It wanted to supply the department with tritium in exchange for a payment of $2.3 billion, which it would have used to complete its Bellefonte reactor in northern Alabama. It stopped work on the reactor in 1988 because of cost overruns and slack demand for power.
Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat and an opponent of the Fast Flux facility, said today's announcement was "a very big decision for the cause of improved health and safety in the Northwest," and a promise that the area had already borne its full share of the environmental burdens of national defense.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TVA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (58%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY; NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (58%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY; NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (58%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; SHORTAGES; TRITIUM; ATOMIC ENERGY; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); DISARMAMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; RICHARDSON, BILL (SEC) BILL RICHARDSON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



510 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
To Allay Fears, Bank of Japan Defends Its Financial Stability

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 22

 BODY:
Fending off weeks of criticism that the Japanese central bank's financial strength is eroding, the bank's governor said today that it had one of the world's safest pools of assets, second only to that of the United States Federal Reserve.
The remarks by Masaru Hayami, the governor of the Bank of Japan, were an effort to bolster Japan's international image in the financial world and allay fears of investors at home and abroad. 
 The concerns have been growing because Japan continues to be mired in its worst recession in six decades and because the Government has said that it would use the cash it controls to revive the economy rather than to buy up big blocks of Government bonds. Fears that private investors will not have the appetite to buy the large number of the Government bonds that remain helped send bond prices plummeting this week.
The Government on Monday proposed a record budget for next year and said it would issue a record amount of new bonds to finance the outlays. That has stirred alarm that a flood of Government bonds would push down bond prices and raise yields and long-term interest rates. Higher rates could stifle an economic recovery.
Today, the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose 25 basis points, to 1.75 percent, and was as high as 1.8 percent at one point. Some analysts have projected that long-term yields could surge past 2 percent soon.
Private economists have also been concerned that the Bank of Japan has been expanding beyond its means, pouring money into lower-quality securities that could end up nibbling away at its solid reputation.
The Bank of Japan's troubles underscore the problems that the nation as a whole is facing. It is caught in a series of binds, choosing between worsening the recession or worsening its fiscal balances, and the central bank is torn between preserving its high-quality balance sheet and intervening by lending to troubled corporations and institutions that desperately need cash.
 On Wednesday, the Standard & Poor's Corporation lowered its credit ratings for 7 of Japan's 10 largest banks: Sumitomo Bank Ltd.; Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd.; Sakura Bank Ltd.; Sanwa Bank Ltd.; Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd.; Tokai Bank Ltd., and Daiwa Bank Ltd. "Although the six-month results were generally in line with expectations, all of the banks, except Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank and Fuji Bank, announced expectations of sharply increased credit costs in the second half of the year," the credit-rating agency said in a statement.
Mr. Hayami acknowledged the concerns among private economists that the Bank of Japan's rapid expansion of lending, which is intended to inject money into the financial system, might increase the bank's bad loans.
With Japan stuck in its worst recession since the end of World War II and with banks cutting loans and selling assets in a struggle for survival, the Bank of Japan has had to step in as the lender of last resort to corporations caught in a credit squeeze. The bank, which has always been lauded for its prudent management, has come under attack since it decided last month to ease credit by loosening its open-market operations.
Thus, the Bank of Japan, which typically puts more than two-thirds of its funds into top-rated Japanese Government bonds, has been placing more money in securities sold by lower-quality, cash-starved corporations. Over the last year, the Bank of Japan has stepped in repeatedly to pour liquidity into the financial system. And as a result, its assets have expanded to 88.3 trillion yen, or $765 billion, a hefty 40 percent rise from last November.
Now, some economists are worried that the burden of bad loans that has crippled the nation's giant banks will in part be transferred to the Bank of Japan.
But Mr. Hayami tried to defend such allegations by pointing out that European central banks do not own as high a percentage of Government bonds as does the Bank of Japan, and instead they often inject money into the financial system by buying corporate commercial paper. Only the United States Federal Reserve, he said, had a higher proportion of its assets in Government bonds.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (64%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (62%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (64%); SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (64%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (63%); DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD (63%); DAIWA BANK LTD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BONDS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); RECESSION (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: HAYAMI, MASARU; WUDUNN, SHERYL MASARU HAYAMI (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



511 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. to Seek A Tax Break On College

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
The Republican leaders of the State Senate say they intend to push a far-reaching plan through the Legislature that would, for the first time, provide a tax deduction for the payment of college tuition.
The proposal, one of the few of its kind in the nation, would allow all New York taxpayers who live or work in the state to deduct the full annual cost of college tuition from their taxable state income, regardless of how much they earn. The deduction would apply to the payment of tuition at any accredited college or university, or professional or trade school, in the United States or abroad. But it would not cover money spent on books, room and board, and other educational fees. 
 Under the proposal, for example, a family of four with a gross income of $55,000 a year and paying the average tuition of $12,000 a year at a private college would reduce their taxable state income to $43,000, assuming there were no other deductions. That, in turn, would reduce their annual state tax bill to $1,289 from $1,769, a saving of $480.
That same family, paying the $3,400 tuition at one of the public state colleges, would reduce their tax bill by $136 a year.
The plan, estimated to cost the state $275 million in unpaid taxes by the 2002-03 fiscal year, represents the opening bid in what is likely to be a contentious debate over how the state should use its 1999 budget surplus, which is estimated to be as much as $2 billion.
Democrats in the Legislature have already begun staking their claims on the surplus, suggesting that the money be spent on repairing or replacing many of the state's dilapidated schools, among other things.
But Republicans in the Senate say they are convinced that their proposal will have such broad appeal to the middle class that their Democratic rivals will find it politically difficult to resist.
"What is most troubling to the middle class?" Joseph L. Bruno, the leader of the Republican majority in the Senate, asked in an interview yesterday. "It's educating their children and getting them a college education. This would help middle-income families struggling with the costs of college."
The proposal to provide tax deductions to offset the cost of college comes just two months after the state initiated another program intended to make college more affordable. Under that program, individuals can deduct thousands of dollars from their state taxable income by putting the money in a special savings account to pay for college.
Patricia Lynch, a spokeswoman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, yesterday said that Democrats were considering their own tax cuts, aimed primarily at spurring job growth. But she added that the Assembly leadership would be open to considering the college plan. "Obviously, it's something that we would be interested in," she said.
The college plan is the centerpiece of a broad package of tax cuts that Senate Republicans say they intend to push during the 1999 legislative session, which begins next month. Mr. Bruno's aides said that he intended to release details of the Republicans' package at a news conference today in Albany.
The Republican tax plan would, among other things, provide tax credits to individuals who pay into so-called medical savings accounts, cut taxes for businesses that make capital investments, reduce utility taxes for banks and insurers and offer tax credits to businesses that provide child care for employees. The plan calls for reducing taxes by $770 million by 2002-03.
The state has cut taxes for the last four years, largely at the insistence of Gov. George E. Pataki and his Republican allies in the Senate. But with those cuts expected to total $4 billion in the coming fiscal year, some fiscal monitors have raised concerns that a new round of tax reductions could hamper the state's ability to deliver services, particularly if the economy slows.
The cost of college rose dramatically during the 1980's and early 90's, but the increase has begun to taper off, to 3 percent to 5 percent annually. The average annual cost last year to attend a four-year private college was $21,424 for tuition, room and board, books and other fees, and $10,069 at a four-year public college. But many students pay less than that because they receive financial aid and scholarships.
Five other states -- New Jersey, Massachusetts, Louisiana, Michigan, and Arkansas -- already allow taxpayers to deduct a portion of their annual college tuition costs. But the proposal in New York differs from the other plans in that it would allow people to deduct the total cost of their annual college tuition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TUITION; TAXATION TUITION FEES (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (75%); ACCREDITATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (66%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



512 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: RJR NABISCO UNIT ADMITS SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW 

 BODY:
A unit of the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation pleaded guilty yesterday to Federal criminal charges stemming from a scheme to smuggle cigarettes into Canada through an Indian reservation in upstate New York and agreed to pay $15 million in penalties.
The authorities said the guilty plea, filed in Federal District Court in Binghamton, N.Y., marked the first time that an American tobacco company had been convicted of complicity in the shadowy and growing world of international cigarette smuggling. 
 Experts estimate that nearly one-fourth of the billions of American cigarettes sold overseas pass through smuggling rings set up to evade taxes and sell major brands at a discount, and critics have long contended that this trade could not go on without the industry's knowledge and support.
But while previous criminal investigations have led to charges against several mid-level managers at American and British companies, top executives at those multinational tobacco companies have always insisted that they have never encouraged or condoned any dealings with the contraband rings.
In entering the guilty plea, the RJR Nabisco subsidiary, Northern Brands International, a marketing company, admitted that it helped distributors evade $2.5 million in United States excise taxes in the mid-1990's on shipments that the authorities said were ultimately smuggled into Canada to avoid high taxes on cigarettes there.
But the company's plea also could have sweeping repercussions in Washington, where Congress has debated whether to raise the taxes on domestic cigarette sales to discourage smoking.
Industry executives have argued that any significant increase in the taxes would immediately create a black market for cigarettes in the United States, much as it did in Canada.
But the guilty plea "shows that the emperor doesn't have any clothes in making that argument," said Gregory N. Connoly, the director of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts's Tobacco Control Program.
"The companies have always said that they are not directly involved, and they have used the threat of smuggling to dissuade Congress from raising the taxes," he said. "But now we have evidence that the industry is complicit with organized criminals when it comes to smuggling."
Thomas J. Maroney, the United States Attorney in Syracuse, said the four-year-old investigation was continuing. While no officials at Northern Brands or at RJR Nabisco's main tobacco operation, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, have been charged in the case, Mr. Maroney declined to say whether any managers at those or other tobacco companies were under scrutiny.
Top executives and spokesmen at Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem, N.C., could not be reached for comment last night. But Mr. Maroney said that Reynolds had agreed to cooperate with investigators and had taken steps to insure that similar violations do not happen again.
Bloomberg News quoted a Reynolds lawyer, C. Stephen Heard Jr., as saying that the company "regrets this episode." According to the news service, Mr. Heard said that Northern Brands' actions were "inconsistent with the way Reynolds does business" and that Reynolds had closed Northern Brands.
The charges against Northern Brands arose from an investigation that has led to guilty pleas by more than 20 people involved in smuggling hundreds of millions of dollars of alcohol and cigarettes into Canada.
Court documents released during the investigation showed that Reynolds, the second-largest American cigarette maker after the Philip Morris Companies, sponsored trips to a luxury Canadian fishing resort for several distributors who lived in upstate New York and smuggled cigarettes into Canada. One Reynolds sales manager even joked with the dealers about the smuggling, the documents said.
The smuggling took off after Canada raised taxes in the 1980's and the early 1990's to discourage cigarette smoking, one of the first countries to try this approach. The taxes did not apply to exports, and affiliates of the three biggest tobacco companies -- Philip Morris, Reynolds and B. A. T. Industries, a British company -- started shipping large amounts of Canadian brands, like Players and Export A, into the northern United States even though few Americans smoke them.
Mr. Maroney said that without paying either the Canadian or the American taxes, distributors then moved the cigarettes back into Canada through the St. Regis Mohawk/Akwesasne Indian Reservation in upstate New York, with the help of some Indian leaders who also have been convicted in the case.
In yesterday's guilty plea, Reynolds's Northern Brands unit admitted to participating in one crucial part of the scheme.
It acknowledged that from August 1994 to June 1995, its officials falsely told the United States Customs Service that 26 loads of its Canadian cigarettes were passing through the United States solely for export to Russia or the Republic of Estonia, thus helping the distributors evade the $2.5 million in American excise taxes.
But in truth, Mr. Maroney said, the Northern Brands officials knew that the cigarettes were destined to be smuggled back into Canada. "Certainly, the whole business was done with the knowledge and assistance on their part," he said in an interview.
Canadian officials, who also are investigating possible violations of Canadian law, said that the smuggling by these and other rings became so intense that the Canadian Government ultimately had no choice but to start rolling back the cigarette taxes.
David T. Sweanor, an antismoking advocate in Canada, said the smuggling cost Canada far more than the United States in lost taxes. He also said that the popularity of smoking among young people declined while the taxes were high but had since risen again.
After Northern Brands made the guilty plea, Federal District Judge Thomas McAvoy in Binghamton imposed a $5 million fine yesterday and ordered the company to pay $10 million to the United States Treasury Asset Forfeiture Fund.
In recent years, two sales managers for the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, a B. A. T. subsidiary, also have pleaded guilty to aiding smugglers who slipped cigarettes into Canada in the mid-1990's.
The authorities in Spain, Italy and China have also begun major investigations into cigarette smuggling. But while they have occasionally caught low-level operatives, they rarely have been able to bring charges against a large corps of middlemen who often buy cigarettes from the manufacturers and then resell them to smugglers -- and thus insulate the major companies from the contraband operations.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York State showing location of the St. Regis Mohawk/Akwesasne Indian Reservation: An RJR Nabisco unit used the St. Regis reservation for smuggling. (pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RN (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (90%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (62%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (88%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN BRANDS INTERNATIONAL; RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP KRAFT NABISCO (90%); R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO (62%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN BRANDS INTERNATIONAL; RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; ST REGIS MOHAWK RESERVATION (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (88%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES; SMUGGLING; FINES (PENALTIES); MOHAWK INDIANS SMUGGLING (93%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); LAWYERS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); 

PERSON: DREW, CHRISTOPHER; MARONEY, THOMAS J (US ATTY) THOMAS J MARONEY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



513 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Assails Republicans in Washington for 'Blunders'

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Declaring that Republicans in Washington had undermined the party with a series of "horrible blunders" this year, Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday that elected officials from beyond the nation's capital were more in tune with Republican ideology and better suited to help the party regain the White House in 2000. Mr. Pataki announced that he would travel the nation to offer alternatives to the "failed strategies" his party had embraced.
Mr. Pataki's criticisms of his own party, voiced in a series of conversations over the last two weeks, were harsh, and directed both at Congressional leaders, for the way they handled the national elections, and, to a lesser extent, at his own political consultants for the way they ran Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's unsuccessful re-election campaign. 
 Although Mr. Pataki assailed Republicans for neglecting their cornerstone issues to focus on President Clinton's relationship with an intern, he declined yesterday to criticize the House vote to impeach Mr. Clinton on Saturday. But he strongly urged the Senate to "come up with a bipartisan solution" that, he said, would not involve removing Mr. Clinton from office.
Mr. Pataki's remarks strongly suggested that he viewed the party's overall handling of the issue throughout the year as emblematic of the way Republican leaders in Washington had drifted from the issues that are of concern to voters.
"Republicans have governed highly successfully across the country, in traditionally Republican states and traditionally Democratic states, with a philosophy that works, that unites the Republican Party, and that unites the Republican Party with a majority of the American people," Mr. Pataki said.
"It's only in Washington -- largely in Washington -- where the national party has lost that agenda, has gone off on tangents, has had a very difficult time transitioning from opposition to governing," Mr. Pataki added.
The Governor's remarks came as his advisers say he is considering a run for national office, and at a time when some Republicans suggest that Mr. Pataki's own solid re-election effort could be tarnished by the otherwise poor showing of the New York Republican Party last month, with losses by both Mr. D'Amato and the incumbent Attorney General, Dennis C. Vacco.
Mr. Pataki is by nature a measured politician who has generally resisted getting drawn into a discussion of his own ambitions or ideas about how the national Republican Party should conduct itself. His decision to travel the nation and discuss the subject, and to draw a critical contrast between Republicans in Congress and governors like himself, left little doubt that he wanted Republicans nationally to consider his ideas -- and, perhaps, Mr. Pataki himself -- in assembling their ticket and platform for 2000.
That said, Mr. Pataki was vague about his exact political intentions. He would not rule out running for national office in 2000. But he also said he was now considering seeking a third term as governor in 2002, notwithstanding his strong advocacy of two-term limits on public officials when he first ran for governor in 1994.
Mr. Pataki was definitive on one subject: He said he had no interest in the Senate seat that will open up in 2000 with the retirement of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat. It is more likely, he said, "that the Hindenburg would come back together."
In the interviews, Mr. Pataki asserted that Republicans in Washington had neglected touchstone conservative issues -- reducing taxes, slashing Government regulation, cutting the welfare rolls and promoting "a strong national defense" -- in the rush to focus on President Clinton's personal life and issues like opposition to abortion rights and gay rights.
It fell to Republican governors like himself, Mr. Pataki said, to attempt to steer the party back to the successful course it followed under Ronald Reagan, which he said accounted for the party's dominance in the 1980's.
Mr. Pataki animatedly rejected the suggestion by many Republicans that his party would never nominate a Northeastern moderate like himself. And he offered a novel retort to the suggestion that Republicans like himself, who favor abortion rights and some gay rights, could never survive the generally conservative Republican nominating process: He maintained that he held the "truly conservative" viewpoint on both those issues.
"I am a conservative," Mr. Pataki said, sipping a glass of Cabarnet at a bar at the Waldorf-Astoria. "But I believe in limited government. I happen to think that limited government includes keeping government out of the private lives of people. I consider that to be a natural extension of the belief in individual privacy.
"I don't want the Democrats in Washington taking our money from our wallets and telling us how to spend it," he said. "Nor do I think that Republicans in Washington should be telling our wives and daughters what they should be doing with their individual lives. In both cases, limited government, more individual freedom. I think this is truly conservative, more in keeping with a conservative viewpoint."
The Governor agreed to an interview at a time when his own re-election, which his aides hoped would catapult him to national attention, has been clouded by what most Republicans now view as a dismal year in New York.
In addition to losses by Mr. D'Amato and Mr. Vacco, the party also failed to pick up any seats in the Legislature. Some Albany Republicans have blamed Mr. Pataki, saying he put his own political interests ahead of his party's by running a cautious, low-profile campaign, which failed to stir the interests of any Republican voters.
Some politicians, in New York and elsewhere, who are unsympathetic to Mr. Pataki are trying to use the election results to undercut his effort to present himself as a Republican who could do well in Democratic states.
"His showing was a disappointment," said Raymond B. Harding, the Liberal Party leader in New York, and (not incidentally) a chief adviser to another New Yorker who has pushed his name out as a potential national candidate, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "In terms of being a potential rising national star, I think he made a dismal showing, in that he did not meet expectations for himself, and showed he had no coattails."
Mr. Pataki dismissed such talk as political carping, and in fact it has been a long time since any politician in New York displayed coattails. Still, Mr. Pataki's advisers seemed concerned about the perception: They arrived at an interview two weeks ago with research to demonstrate that Mr. Pataki's victory margin -- he won by more than 20 percentage points over his nearest rival, in a relatively crowded and well-financed field -- was the largest of any Republican gubernatorial candidate in the state's history.
Mr. Pataki said he had no regrets about the way he ran his campaign. But he was critical of the way his own political consultants, Arthur Finkelstein and Kieran Mahoney, managed Mr. D'Amato's contest for a fourth term.
"One of the things we did not do is give the voters a reason to vote for Senator D'Amato, as opposed to voting against Chuck Schumer," Mr. Pataki said, referring to the Democratic Representative from Brooklyn who defeated Mr. D'Amato. "After 18 years, people are inclined to be willing to consider change. I think we should have had a positive message out as to all Senator D'Amato has done for the state."
Mr. Pataki declined to offer a vote of confidence in his two longtime advisers, saying he had not decided whether he would retain them the next time he ran for any office. "We'll make the decisions about future campaigns and elections down the road," Mr. Pataki said.
Mr. Finkelstein did not return calls seeking comment. Mr. Mahoney declined to comment on Mr. Pataki's remarks.
Mr. Pataki has done a fair amount of traveling across the country this year, though mostly for the purpose of fund-raising. His aides said the details of forthcoming trips, intended to offer his opinion on what the party should be doing, had not been worked out.
Mr. Pataki pointed to Ronald Reagan as an example of the tone and philosophy the party needed to return to. He said, "Ronald Reagan was pro-life but he had a tremendous positive message, of morning in America, and less dependency on Washington, and dramatic tax cuts, and an end to the evil empire and a strong global America, a belief in limited government."
Mr. Pataki disdainfully contrasted Mr. Reagan's approach with the one advanced by Republicans in November. "It was a failed strategy that didn't work," he said. "If we had talked about these concepts -- expanding the economy, cutting taxes, helping the states deal with the problems they have, having a strong defense that allows America to protect our citizens at home and abroad -- we would have had the victories we didn't have."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor Pataki says his party is out of touch. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



514 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Fed Keeps Rates Steady
The Federal Reserve voted to hold interest rates steady, judging that three rate trims in the fall had been enough to assure strong economic growth into the new year. But some analysts see cuts ahead. Page C1. 

Deal on Stock Exchange
The New York Stock Exchange reached a deal with the city and state that includes $900 million in subsidies to build a trading complex and office tower near its historic home on Wall Street. Page B3.
 
Caviar Caveat
The world of caviar -- from harvesting and selling to buying and tasting -- has fallen into chaos. Choosing is hard, but there are ways to sort the good eggs from the bad. Page F1.
 
Women's League Folds
The nine-team American Basketball League, unable to capitalize on the N.B.A. lockout or to compete with the better-marketed W.N.B.A., shut down in its third season. Page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BASKETBALL (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



515 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
N.B.A. Negotiators Entering 11th Hour for a Deal

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Fearing that it will hurt negotiations with the players union, Commissioner David Stern has steadfastly refused to issue a so-called drop-dead date that would signal the cancellation of the entire 1998-99 National Basketball Association season. But as the league's contentious labor dispute motors toward its sixth month without resolution, it appears that such a date is within days of being announced.
League officials are considering a date for a special Board of Governors meeting to be convened the first week of January in New York. The main item on the agenda: a vote of representatives from the 29 teams on whether to terminate what is left of the season. 
 "At some point, we'll have to have a board meeting to cancel the season," Russ Granik, the league's deputy commissioner, said last night. "I don't know if you would call that a drop-dead date, but I guess some people will take it that way."
Granik refused to release the date of the meeting or say when the season will be canceled if the two sides cannot negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement.
The final decision rests with Stern, who is vacationing in Aspen, Colo., and is not planning to return until next week. Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, returned home to Oakland, Calif., this morning to spend the Christmas holiday with his family.
Ten days after the last bargaining session, no new talks have been scheduled, though Hunter was planning to speak to Stern over the next couple of days, a union official said. As the owners and players battle over how to share $2 billion in revenue, the first three months of the season is about to be lost. Given that the season cannot start until the last week of January, at the earliest, more than $400 million in player salaries will be lost as well.
Meanwhile, Kevin Willis of the Toronto Raptors became the second player in four days to publicly support an owners' proposal forwarded to the players last week by Stern. In an interview with The Associated Press, Willis called for players to vote on the proposal by secret ballot.
"The majority would vote for the owners' latest proposal, just to start playing ball again," Willis said.
Forward Karl Malone of the Utah Jazz said on Saturday that he thought the deal was fair, though he added that it needed some "minor adjustments."
Willis's comments were not surprising, given that his agent, Steven Woods of Atlanta, has harshly criticized Hunter; Patrick Ewing, the union president, and the union itself the past few months. In October, he was escorted by security guards from a players meeting in Las Vegas, Nev.
"We conducted conference calls over the last two weeks with more than 120 players on each call," said Dan Wasserman, the union's communications director. "At least a dozen players on each call specifically told us they will wait for the negotiating committee to recommend a deal that is worthy of putting to a vote.
"Every player is entitled to his opinion, although we have not heard from Kevin Willis directly. But the vast majority of players support the authority of the negotiating committee to recommend a deal."
With both sides still trying to hash out key economic issues relating to how the league will do business the next six to seven years, union and league officials are beginning to acknowledge that time for a settlement is running out.
Hunter has said that the two sides are not as far apart as many league officials have suggested, and that a deal can be struck within 24 hours if the parties show a willingness to compromise. But getting lawyers and the chief negotiators into a room for that meeting is another story. The next meeting will most likely not take place before Monday.
 Two union officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that if a deal cannot be struck between Jan. 5 and 10, at the latest, they believe Stern will cancel the season.
"They're in the right time frame," Granik said. "We don't want this to be a fatalistic situation. Frankly, I'll be surprised if we don't have another meeting before canceling the season. But right now, I don't have any reason to be optimistic about the results."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (52%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE DAVID STERN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



516 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: YELTSIN IS OPTIMISTIC -- President Boris N. Yeltsin waved off a dismal forecast for the economy that the International Monetary Fund issued on Monday. Mr. Yeltsin said Russia was "on the up" and headed toward fiscal recovery. The I.M.F. predicted that the economy would sink an additional 8.5 percent next year, a third more than the 5.7 percent contraction expected this year. Michael Wines (NYT) 

RUSSIA: $400 MILLION LOAN FOR ROADS -- The World Bank will lend $400 million in the first major infusion of money to Russia since August, when the Government defaulted on its debt payments. The money, to improve roads and bridges and start a system of road taxes, is a sign of international lenders' willingness to help Russia back from bankruptcy. (Bloomberg News)
 
IRELAND: EARLY RELEASE FOR 4 I.R.A. MURDERERS -- Four men convicted of the Irish Republican Army murders of two Irish police officers were freed from the top security prison near Dublin under the terms of early release in the Northern Ireland peace settlement. Three men -- Thomas Eccles, Patrick McPhillips and Brain McShane -- killed Officer Frank Hand on a post office raid in 1984. The fourth, Peter Rogers, shot Officer Seamus Quaid dead in 1980, when he stopped a van carrying explosives. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
GERMANY: CALL FOR COMMUNIST SECURITY FILES -- The new president of Parliament, Wolfgang Thierse, called on the United States and Russia to return foreign intelligence files of the old East German State Security Ministry. Mr. Thierse, a former civil rights advocate in East Germany, said the files, taken when the Communist regime collapsed, were needed to identify who had spied on fellow Germans and to complete archives. (NYT)
 
SPAIN: E.T.A. REAFFIRMS CEASE-FIRE -- The Government reacted cautiously to a communique late Monday from E.T.A., the Basque separatist group, that reaffirmed its cease-fire, in effect since September, and called for direct talks with Madrid. (NYT)
 
LITHUANIA: VOTE TO ABOLISH DEATH PENALTY -- The Parliament has voted, 76 to 3, to abolish the death penalty, hoping to ease entry into the European Union. Most Lithuanians support capital punishment, but the union has said that retaining it would pose an obstacle to membership. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: PRIMAKOV PLANS ACCORD NEXT YEAR -- Prime Min- ister Yevgeny M. Primakov of Russia, left, ended a visit to India with the two countries' announcing plans to sign an agreement next year on a "strategic partnership." But China rejected Mr. Primakov's call on Monday for Beijing, New Delhi and Moscow to forge a strategic triangle aimed at countering United States influence. (Reuters)
 
CHINA: ECONOMIC TARGET LOWERED TO 7% -- The top leaders have lowered their economic target for next year, to 7 percent. They are stressing "quality" growth to improve efficiency, and not just production, the official China Securities newspaper reported. Prime Minister Zhu Rongji also called for truthful reporting of economic figures. (Agence France-Presse)
 
JAPAN: U.S. RETURNS AREA ON OKINAWA -- The United States returned an armed forces training ground on Okinawa to Japanese control as part of an agreement to reduce the American presence. The area, the Aha drill site, which has 1,186 acres of land and 19,513 acres of water, is the first of 11 such centers on Okinawa to revert to Japan under an agreement reached in 1996. (AP)
 
SOUTH KOREA: $333 MILLION FOR U.S. TROOPS -- South Korea will pay $333 million to keep United States troops there next year, American and South Korean military officials said. The sum is a 6 percent increase over the $314 million this year, but much less than the $440 million the country had promised to pay. (AP)
 
KYRGYZSTAN: NOW IN WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION -- Kyrgyzstan is the first former Soviet republic to join the World Trade Organization. Kyrgyzstan ratified the terms for entry last month, but had a 30-day waiting period for the membership to become official, the ITAR-Tass news agency said. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
EGYPT: PALESTINIAN AIRLINES MAIDEN FLIGHT -- A Palestinian Airlines plane landed in Cairo on the first scheduled flight from the new Gaza airport. Transport Minister Suleiman Metwalli greeted the Fokker 50. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
ZAMBIA: TREASON CHARGES DROPPED -- State prosecutors dropped treason charges against two politicians accused of involvement in a failed coup in October 1997. The defendants, Dean Mungomba and Nakatindi Wina, who belong to a small opposition party, had been in jail for more than a year. Last week a judge ruled that none of the state's 109 witnesses had implicated them. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
SUDAN: WARNING OF WORSE FAMINE -- Aid agencies warned that next year would be bleak for more than four million Sudanese who have suffered from famine, fighting and flooding. An umbrella group for the United Nations and other agencies, Operation Lifeline Sudan, said that another acute famine in the southern Bahr el-Ghazal region could not be ruled out and that the western Upper Nile region could also suffer as a result of flooding and civil war. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: BOMBING SUSPECT RELEASED -- An Iranian arrested in the bombing of the Israeli Embassy in 1992 has been freed but cannot leave the country because she is under investigation, her lawyers said. The suspect, Nahrim Mokhtari, was released because of a lack of evidence, and the Government will pay for her stay in a hotel. (Reuters)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GERMANY (94%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); IRELAND (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%); 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GERMANY (94%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); IRELAND (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MURDER (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SHOOTINGS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRISONS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); POLICE FORCES (67%); ESPIONAGE (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); 

PERSON: BORIS N YELTSIN (65%); YEVGENY M PRIMAKOV (61%); WOLFGANG THIERSE (56%); JOHN MAJOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



517 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
U.S.-Mexico Drug Effort Falters, Straining Ties
An ambitious United States effort to help train and equip Mexico's armed forces to pursue drug smugglers is in shambles, officials of both countries say, souring American relations with an ally that Washington has worked intensely to court. A1 

Memorial for Mexico Massacre
Some 2,000 people, including many who came out of hiding, gathered to commemorate the first anniversary of the massacre in Acteal, which was the deadliest single attack in Chiapas since the Zapatista rebellion began in January 1994. A4
 
Angola Peace Faltering
The peace treaty that gave Angola its longest cease-fire in 30 years is foundering. Since June, the Unita rebel forces have retaken more than half the countryside, engaging the Angolan Army in hundreds of places and flushing more than 200,000 Angolans from their villages. A1
 
France Offers an Iraq Plan
France proposed that the United Nations set up a system to monitor Iraq's arms programs and to let it export oil while insuring that none of the money from oil sales was used to buy weapons. A14
 
The United States has begun to reduce its forces in the Persian Gulf, withdrawing more than three dozen fighters, bombers and other aircraft ordered to the region over the last month, Pentagon officials said. A14
 
The Clinton Administration's choice to lead the American delegation to the United Nations, Richard C. Holbrooke, is still under investigation by the Justice Department concerning accusations of ethics violations. Mr. Holbrooke's lawyer said he expected him to be cleared, though not in time for him to join a United Nations debate that could change the way the world does business with Iraq. A12
 
Balloonists Press On
The three crew members of the ICO Global Challenge balloon floated over China, after the Government dropped objections to the flight's passing over its territory. The balloon is expected to cross the coast of the Yellow Sea by nightfall. A13
 
Refuge for a Suharto Ally
Prabowo Subianto, left, a son-in-law of former President Suharto of Indonesia, said he had declined an offer of honorary citizenship from Jordan, where he has spent the last four months. Eleven soldiers once under his command went on trial in Indonesia today on charges of abducting and torturing political dissidents and opponents of Mr. Suharto. A11
 
Cambodia Waste Cleanup
Efforts began to clear suspected toxic waste from a dump near the southern Cambodian coastal resort Sihanoukville, but officials said economic damage had already been done. Until the toxic waste scare emerged this month, the area's golden beaches and clear waters were a centerpiece in Government plans to attract visitors. A7
 
World Briefing A12
 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
First Count in Senate Falls Short of an Ouster
Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, said the Senate did not now have the votes to convict President Clinton and remove him from office. He also said there seemed to be bipartisan support for censure. A24
 
Restrictions on Fund-Raiser
A Federal judge placed tighter restrictions on the movements of Yah Lin Trie, an Arkansas restaurateur indicted on campaign fund-raising charges in connection with President Clinton's 1996 campaign, after it was learned that Mr. Trie had applied for a Taiwanese passport. A20
 
Regulations on Gas Tanks
Starting at midnight, thousands of gasoline stations and thousands more school districts, fire departments and trash collectors that store fuel in potentially leaky underground tanks face fines of up to $11,000 a day unless they shut them down. A18
 
New Use for Civilian Reactors
The Energy Department, facing a shortage of a crucial component of nuclear warheads, said it would use three of the Tennessee Valley Authority's electricity-producing reactors to make the material, tritium. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson acknowledged that the plan, which is subject to Congressional approval, broke down a long-time distinction in the nuclear world, by using a civilian reactor for military purposes. A20
 
Delay in Some Benefits
Federal officials said at least 11 states would miss next month's deadline to fix computers used to pay unemployment insurance, but the states are making stopgap arrangements to avoid any interruption. A20
 
Breaking a Date in Space
The errant NEAR spacecraft, which was to have been the first craft to orbit an asteroid, will instead fly past its intended target today, but scientists said that they still held hope of completing the original mission in 2000. A25
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Part of Death Penalty Law Is Struck by High Court
The Court of Appeals struck down most of the plea-bargaining provisions in New York's death penalty law, saying they were unconstitutional because they encouraged defendants to plead guilty rather than risk a death sentence by going to trial. A1
 
RJR Unit Pleads Guilty
A unit of the RJR Nabisco Holdings pleaded guilty to Federal criminal charges stemming from a scheme to smuggle cigarettes into Canada through an Indian reservation in upstate New York, and the company will pay $15 million in penalties. A1
 
Chastising Washington G.O.P.
Governor Pataki, declaring that Republicans in Washington had undermined their party with a series of "horrible blunders," said he would travel the nation to offer alternatives to "failed strategies." B1
 
Deal on a New Exchange
City and state officials said they had reached an agreement with the New York Stock Exchange to build a new center just east of the market's historic home on Wall Street. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
OBITUARIES C19
 
EDUCATION B8
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Trouble for the Tenors
A German court sentenced Matthias Hoffmann, the promoter who turned the Three Tenors concerts into a worldwide extravaganza, to nearly six years in prison for tax evasion. Officials are also pursuing investigations of the tenors for possible complicity in tax fraud. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Interest Rates Unchanged
The Fed voted to hold interest rates steady, judging that three reductions this fall gave the economy a kick big enough to keep it growing at a healthy pace into the new year. C1
 
Chemical Company Is Accused
Federal securities regulators accused W. R. Grace and six former executives of fraudulently manipulating earnings reports. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
Women's League Folds
The American Basketball League suspended operations one-third of the way through its third season and said it would file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. D1
 
Decision Near on N.B.A. Season
League officials are considering holding a meeting early next month at which representatives of the 29 teams will decide whether to cancel the remainder of the season. D1
 
DINING F1-10
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Too much of a good thing; the Senate edges toward censure; Olympian payoffs; privacy rights in the car and the home.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd, Frank Rich.
 
Crossword E10
 
Weather D7
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); ANGOLA (94%); IRAQ (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GULF STATES (76%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); ANGOLA (94%); IRAQ (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GULF STATES (76%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WAR & CONFLICT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); COASTAL AREAS (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ETHICS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); BEACHES (66%); AIRCRAFT MFG (65%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); RESORTS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (50%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



518 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
EDELMAN, HAROLD

 BODY:
EDELMAN-Harold. Age 75, on December 21, 1998. Architect and artist. Beloved husband of Judith; loving father of Marc and Joshua; grandfather of Gabriel, Daniel, Sarah, and Benjamin. Dear brother of Edna Friedman and Paul. In lieu of flowers donations to Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Medical Center. There will be no funeral. A memorial gathering will be announced.
EDELMAN-Hal. We mourn the loss of Hal Edelman, our architect and friend. Astute in design, sensitive to community concerns, his legacy to us is the Two Bridges Urban Renewal District on the Lower East Side. A complex of over 1500 units of affordable housing and commercial enterprises, it exemplifies his vision of community. Hal didn't just build buildings, he built communities. His buildings are not just bricks and mortar, but true homes. With so much left to be done, Hal leaves us at an untimely moment. We convey our deepest sympathy to his wife, Judy Edelman, and his associates. Two Bridges Neighborhood Council
EDELMAN-Harold. Eminent architect, friend and partner for 30 years. We will miss your inspiration, guidance and commitment to creating beautiful and affordable housing. Carol Lamberg Clara Fox Susan Cole Ann Loeb Board & Staff of Settlement Housing Fund

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOSPICE (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: EDELMAN, HAROLD JUDY EDELMAN (93%); HAL EDELMAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998



519 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 1857 words

HEADLINE: Wire It, and They Will Come

BYLINE: By ANDREW BLUTH

DATELINE: DES MOINES

 BODY:
SCORES of Iowa middle-school students were squirming on a recent afternoon as they inspected tumors inside a colon as part of a career-information seminar about the medical profession. The students, however, were not even in the same room as the diseased colon -- or the same county, for that matter. The hundred or so middle schoolers were spread out all over the state, at six different schools.
The images of the colon, preserved in a jar in Des Moines, as well as the reactions ("Gross!" and "Cool!") were carried over hundreds of miles of fiber optic cable that make up the Iowa Communications Network, which is nearly a decade old but is still revolutionary. 
 The idea of the state-owned and operated network, the only one of its kind in the nation, was pushed forward by a group of state legislators during the administration of Gov. Terry E. Branstad in 1990. Approved and paid for with hundreds of millions of dollars by the Iowa Legislature, the network links Iowa's 99 counties, enabling the instantaneous transmission of two-way interactive video, data and audio communications.
The network began as an educational tool for the state's schools; the goal was to open up opportunities for rural Iowa. The idea of children in rural Iowa taking foreign-language classes via the network struck state leaders as a prime example of how opportunities afforded to students in Des Moines and Cedar Rapids could be made available to those in rural Inwood.
The network could go a long way toward satisfying an Internet user's lust for bandwidth -- technojargon for the size of the pipeline that carries data to and from a computer. The more bandwidth a user has -- the fatter the pipeline between the computer and the Internet -- the faster and more useful that computer is. And a fiber optic network is a fat, fat pipeline. While that fat pipeline is now available to only a limited number of public and educational institutions, there is a public debate about expanding that availability and about the state's role as a communications carrier. City and county governments want to be included in the network, and there is even talk of forging public-private partnerships that would make the network available for more private uses.
The network has wired the state with cables made of individual strands of optical fiber spiraled together. Harold M. (Tommy) Thompson, the chief operating officer of the network, said that while an entire encyclopedia could be downloaded in 38 minutes with a copper T-1 line, one of the fastest widely available means of connecting to the Internet, the Iowa network could transmit the same information in 1 1/2 minutes. He said he hoped that financing would be allocated to update the network, tripling its bandwidth.
Officials estimate that since the network's inception, the state has spent close to $300 million to build and run it. That includes $178 million for the original cable that wired every county, plus an additional $95 million for the current effort to wire every school, which would put all the state's residents closer to a network access point.
Even though Federal and state agencies pay for network access, rate subsidies and the expense of building up the network are costing the state around $25 million a year. To encourage educational uses, the state subsidizes the service for schools, charging public and private elementary and high schools an hourly fee of $5.25 for two-way interactive video; public and private universities pay $6.30 per hour. Libraries' rates are similar. Hospitals and state and Federal agencies are charged $45.50 an hour, which is what providing the service costs the state. To use the network for phone calls and Internet hookups, users pay the network for production costs, which varies depending on the kind of hookup.
Private individuals and businesses cannot gain access to the network under the state law governing it. The Legislature has refused to pass several bills that would widen access by allowing city and county governments to participate. (Some counties are already connected for law enforcement and disaster services.)
Despite some public grumbling over the network's costs, its advocates insist that the investment will be well worth it and that costs are dropping as usage expands.
Mr. Thompson, who has run the network for four years, said: "In addition to direct savings that the network creates for state agencies -- for example, phone service that they don't pay private sector rates for -- there are savings that are impossible to quantify, such as savings from a sick veteran not having to leave his hospital to see a specialist. Those kinds of things you just can't price."
Nobody knows if fiber optics will continue to be desirable as a high-bandwidth Internet conduit as technology changes; cable modems and wireless technology, among others, are also strong contenders. But Mr. Thompson said the Iowa network would remain valuable for years. "Who knows, maybe 25 years from now there will be a new technology and somebody will be able to do what we're doing better and cheaper," he said. "If that's the case, we'll try to position ourselves so that we can adapt to any of those changes, but it's pretty far in the future."
Though born as a tool for education, the Iowa network has been tapped for telemedicine, telejustice (a term coined by Iowa judicial officials) and even military purposes.
James C. Twedt, an administrative judge, used to spend hundreds of hours on the road conducting parole revocation hearings. Now Judge Twedt travels down a flight of steps in the Polk County Courthouse in Des Moines to a former conference room that has been transformed into a network video room, equipped with a monitor, camera, microphone and all the other fixings of a network access point. There, the judge can listen to three cases in 45 minutes.
Judge Twedt estimated that he could process three times as many cases with the network than he could before.
The Iowa Parole Board also uses the network for parole hearings. That eliminates the travel and security costs previously incurred with transporting criminals. Judge Twedt said more than 1,000 parole hearings had been held over the network.
The network is also used in telemedicine. While telemedicine is practiced in other states as well, the Iowa network makes the most sophisticated system possible. It allows instantaneous, high-quality two-way interactive video so the doctor and patient can talk to each other. Of course, that does not substitute for face-to-face contact, but it does allow for great technological leaps. For example, from his office at the University of Iowa Hospitals in Iowa City, Dr. Michael Kienzle is able to use the network to listen to the hearts of patients anywhere in the state.
"It allows you to establish a rapport with the patient," Dr. Kienzle said. "As a doctor, 80 percent of the information you need to make a diagnosis comes from conversation with the patient. This network allows that as though you're sitting in the examining room with them."
Dr. Kienzle said that while equipment and maintenance costs for the network might seem exorbitant, telemedicine saved money.
In rural Iowa, a patient who needs a specialist has four alternatives, Dr. Kienzle points out: not seeking medical attention, driving to where it is available, seeing a specialist from a city who periodically visits rural towns or using telemedicine. If the patient needs immediate attention, the choices are limited to the last two, and the costs of missed work to family members and the transportation costs of driving for treatment can be quite high, Dr. Kienzle noted.
The first consultation over Iowa's network was conducted in early 1997, and several hundred took place in that year. Dr. Kienzle said he expected those numbers to increase a lot as insurance companies became more comfortable with the practice. In addition to private patients, Dr. Kienzle said, telemedicine is used in Iowa to treat most prisoners.
The network is also used for programs like training seminars for state workers and a pilot program allowing plastics molders in private industry to take community college courses to get their certification more quickly.
Beyond that, the National Guard uses the network for mobilization and emergency services planning. With National Guard personnel scattered throughout the state, the network lends itself to military use, network officials said. Commanders and policy makers can hold meetings over the network, eliminating travel to a central location near Des Moines, and training exercises have recently been developed to take advantage of the network. Mr. Thompson said that in the last few months, state military personnel at different network points around the state had participated in a war simulation over the network; communications, tactical maneuvers and strategy were planned and carried out via the network.
But Iowa's network has not been given an easy ride by the State Legislature. There was heavy opposition from the state's telecommunications industry, which said that with more than 150 long-distance phone companies already operating in Iowa, the government should not get into the business as well. But the network's proponents were able to convince the Legislature that to provide service to the whole state, only the government would be willing to wire areas that might not otherwise be profitable for private industry.
But many of those involved agree that the state must form some sort of partnership with the private sector at some point, expanding the network's availability to private corporations. That same uneasy telecommunications industry, however, still fears expanded competition from the state. And the state wants to maintain its original vision of servicing all Iowans, regardless of profitability. The solution, optimists say, is to transfer some operations to the private sector but to have a state regulatory body make sure that costs remain affordable and that the service area continues to expand throughout the state.
"To the extent that some sort of hybrid arrangement can promote growth and still accommodate the public good, I would be for it," Dr. Kienzle said.
Economic development officials say they hope that a partnership will allow the private sector all of the network's advantages and attract new business to Iowa. But many officials are not so optimistic because other states, like North Carolina and Wisconsin, have encountered problems with similar arrangements.
"While the state runs the network, we only have to break even and we're not paying taxes and fees -- it's just cheaper," Mr. Thompson said. "If we turn it over to a private carrier, in order for them to cover costs and then profit, I'm afraid prices will get too high."
Meanwhile, the Legislature has promised $3 million, largely for subsidies, in the next fiscal year, and Mr. Thompson says the network's technology will continue to push boundaries. That means that middle-school students will continue to squirm at human innards, even when they are halfway across the state.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Iowa Communications Network is used for many purposes across the state. Above, a feeding-disorders team at the University of Iowa uses the network for a teleconference. Top right, students in an apprentice program in Cedar Rapids receive on-line instruction. (Photographs above and top right by Mark Tade for The New York Times); Bottom right, Judge James C. Twedt uses the network for parole hearings, which saves him a lot of travel time. (Rodney White for The New York Times); It also saves money, because the state no longer has to pay for transporting prisoners to parole hearings and providing security. (p. G5); Photos (Background photograph, FPG International)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); BANDWIDTH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: TERRY BRANSTAD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



520 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Durable Goods Orders Increased in November

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods rose more than expected in November and consumer confidence remained high during December, data released today showed, suggesting the economy would enter the new year on a strong note.
In another report, the Commerce Department said the economy grew at a 3.7 percent annual rate during the third quarter, less than the 3.9 percent pace previously estimated by the Government but still more than double the 1.8 percent rate of the second quarter. 
 The durable goods data, also issued by the Commerce Department, said that orders rose 1 percent in November, the fifth increase in six months. Orders had fallen 2.1 percent in October, and analysts had expected the November report to show a rise of only one-tenth of 1 percent.
In the report on consumer confidence, the University of Michigan's index for December fell to 100.5, from 102.7 a month earlier. Still, it stayed above the year's low of 97.4 in October, suggesting Christmas sales may be strong.
"The old year is going out with a bang," Bruce Steinberg, the chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company in New York, said. "Because of the momentum coming out of 1998, the first quarter could be the strongest of next year."
Today's durable goods report suggested that manufacturers might fatten their order books in the first quarter of next year. Excluding transportation, durables orders rose 1.2 percent in November, after decreasing 1.7 percent in October. Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a barometer of spending by businesses on new equipment used to make goods, rose 3.2 percent last month. In October, those orders fell 9.6 percent.
"There's some underlying strength, which bodes well for production down the road," Evelina Tainer, the chief economist at Econoday, an Internet-based economic-analysis firm, said.
In revising downward its calculation of economic growth in the third quarter to the 3.7 percent rate, the Commerce Department cited as the main reason a $2.1 billion reduction in quarterly exports and a $3 billion increase in imports. That left a net trade deficit, at an annual rate, of $259 billion, up from the previous estimate of $253.9 billion.
Recessions in Japan and other countries have hurt export demand, and the dollar's strength against the yen has made some imports less expensive.
Helping offset the trade drag was consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic activity. Personal consumption rose at a 4.1 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the Government said, unchanged from the previous estimate.
The Commerce Department also said that after-tax corporate profits dropped 1 percent in the third quarter from the prior three months. In the second quarter, they had increased six-tenths of 1 percent. Compared with the corresponding period last year, profits fell 5.4 percent in the third quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Real Economic Growth" tracks annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on seasonally and inflation-adjusted figures for each quarter, since the second quarter of 1994. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



521 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Fed Feared a Further Economic Downturn

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's decision on Nov. 17 to cut interest rates was driven by concern that problems in the financial markets might again intensify and drag down the economy, according to a summary of the meeting released today.
The Fed cut its benchmark rate a quarter of a percentage point at the meeting despite the possibility a reduction might push stock prices unsustainably higher, and in the face of evidence the economy was not slowing as much as most analysts expected, minutes of the meeting said. 
 As a result, the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee also voted at the Nov. 17 meeting to remove its formal bias toward further rate cuts and to adopt a neutral outlook -- one that did not lean either toward monetary easing or tightening. At its subsequent meeting, on Tuesday, the Fed held rates steady. The minutes of Tuesday's meeting will be released in February.
The central bank committee concluded at the November meeting that "further easing was not likely to be needed over the months ahead unless ongoing developments pointed to a more substantial decline in the growth of economic activity or further ebbing of inflation than was currently anticipated."
Some investors interpreted the account of the November meeting to mean that the Fed might be more hesitant to reduce interest rates next year than economists had assumed, especially because economic indicators in the last month suggest that growth remains robust despite the continuing global financial turmoil.
Stock prices, which had been up sharply, dipped after the minutes were released this afternoon but then rebounded sharply. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 157.57 points, to 9,202.03.
The Fed minutes said that the decision to cut rates in November "was viewed as a close call by several members," and that while the economy was expected to slow heading into next year, "the expansion currently displayed only modest signs of moderating from what seemed to be an unsustainable pace."
The committee was particularly concerned about the stock market, which after plunging over the summer had rebounded substantially and by November was again at levels that some analysts thought was unsustainable, particularly if corporate profits did not keep pace with investors' expectations.
Many committee members, the minutes said, "saw some risk that an easing move at this point might trigger a strong further advance in stock market prices that would not be justified on the basis of likely future earnings and could therefore lead to a relatively sharp and disruptive market adjustment later."
In the end, though, the committee decided that it should cut rates one more time to help calm the markets and in particular to help ease a persistent credit squeeze. The almost total absence of inflation gave the Fed considerable leeway to lower rates, the minutes said.
"A further easing move would complete the policy adjustment to the changed economic and financial climate that had emerged since midsummer," the Fed continued, "and would provide some insurance against any unexpectedly severe weakening of the expansion."
The decision to reduce the Federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks, to 4.75 percent from 5 percent, was approved by a 10-to-1 vote at the meeting, the minutes said. The dissenter was Jerry L. Jordan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.
Mr. Jordan said that two previous quarter-point rate reductions during the fall had been sufficient to deal with the problems in the financial markets and that an additional rate cut risked reigniting inflation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W JERRY L JORDAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



522 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The banana war between the United States and Europe is more than a trivial trade spat.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
FEW Americans care whether Europe buys bananas from Ecuador, Guatemala or Honduras. So many wondered whether the Clinton Administration recklessly started a trade war when it announced this week a list of European luxury products -- ranging from cashmere clothing to chandeliers -- that it vowed to tax into extinction if the European Union did not open its borders to bananas from Latin America.
Suspicions grew worse when it became known that a political power behind the Administration's action was Carl H. Lindner, a large contributor to both political parties and the chief executive of Chiquita Brands International, one of two big American distributors of Latin American bananas in Europe. 
 But whatever the motive, the Administration picked its battle wisely. If Europe gets its way in this otherwise trivial trade spat, it could gut the world's three-year mechanism for resolving trade disputes, a mechanism that Prof. John Jackson of the Georgetown University Law School regards as "the finest international legal tribunal in the world."
Europe's complicated system for allocating licenses to import bananas discriminates in favor of European companies that distribute bananas grown in Europe's former colonies in the Caribbean and Africa. Some types of discrimination are allowed under international trade rules. But Europe's system flagrantly violates these rules, according to three international trade tribunals over the last six years. Europe ignored the first two rulings, exercising the right under the toothless pre-1995 procedures of defendants to veto adverse rulings.
But veto rights were rescinded three years ago when the world's trading partners created the World Trade Organization and adopted a revised system for referring trade fights to impartial dispute panels. Victorious plaintiffs, like the United States in the banana case, were explicitly authorized to impose sanctions under authority of the W.T.O. if the offending country refused to make amends.
Or so the United States thought. But in the banana case, Europe has exploited a loophole in the rules. By revising its licensing laws in a manner that the United States and other countries call a sham, Europe contends it has complied with the trade panel's ruling, thereby stripping the United States of any authority to retaliate. The European Union's trade commissioner, Sir Leon Brittan, has called the Clinton Administration threatened sanctions "unilateralism at its worst."
The pros and cons of the banana dispute are not overly important. Europe's legal maneuver is. The truth, according to Mr. Jackson and many other legal experts, is that W.T.O. rules include one section that appears to give the United States the right to retaliate if Europe does not correct its licensing system. But another section appears to give Europe the right to declare itself in compliance and force the United States to begin a new trade case, taking years to resolve, if it cries foul. And there is no guarantee that once the new case is resolved, Europe will not carry out another sham response, ensnarling the United States in one fruitless legal dispute after another.
But as cynical as Europe's ploy may be, it has a point. Its accuser, the United States, cannot, once a panel has ruled, serve as sole judge as to whether Europe's practices conform to international standards. Yet victorious plaintiffs cannot tolerate indefinite delay as international tribunals are asked to review every evolution of a nation's trade rules. If Europe's interpretation prevails, the W.T.O. will become as toothless as its predecessor.
Jeffrey Schott of the Institute for International Economics in Washington proposes a way out of the box. He would submit Europe's new licensing system to binding arbitration. The arbitrator would decide whether the system conforms to the W.T.O. rules. Fairness would require appointing as arbitrator someone from the W.T.O. appeals panel which ruled on behalf of the United States. Otherwise, the United States would be faced, in effect, with having to win its case twice -- once before the initial panel and then again before an arbitrator.
Mr. Jackson agrees that binding arbitration is the best way to close the loophole exposed by Europe's maneuvering and cites precedent under the W.T.O. for such a solution. He cautions that it will take a lot of time and effort because more than 100 member countries would have to approve new trade procedures.
Whatever effort it takes to fix the dispute mechanism is warranted because the three-year-old system has been a nearly unqualified success. In a series of politically delicate and economically tricky cases, trade panels have issued carefully crafted and smart rulings that show no bias in favor of the rich and powerful. The W.T.O., for example, ruled in favor of Venezuela and Brazil when they correctly accused the United States of shutting out their oil exports. To the Administration's credit, it quickly brought American trade practices into line, giving it credibility in the current dispute with Europe.
Mr. Jackson points to other rulings that he says were carefully balanced: against Europe's prohibition of beef imports from the United States that the Europeans say are tainted with growth hormones and against an American prohibition on imported shrimp caught by vessels that endanger sea turtles.
In an odd sense, Europe's stance may be indirect payback. During the 1994 Congressional fight over membership in the new W.T.O., Mr. Clinton's trade representative, Mickey Kantor, infuriated many Europeans by arguing that membership in the trade organization would not obligate America to obey its rules. The United States could defy the rules and accept retaliation knowing full well that few countries, no matter how valid their case, would choose to initiate a trade war with the United States.
Europe has not explicitly endorsed Mr. Kantor's legalistic view. But its maneuvering on bananas bears the footprints of his legalisms -- legalisms that if unchecked could undo a system that has so far kept big and small countries playing by the same set of fair rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CQB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (57%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); LAWYERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



523 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Path Cleared for Yankee Farm Team

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The possibility of a Yankee minor league team moving to Staten Island improved yesterday when the City University of New York said it would make the baseball field at its College of Staten Island available as a temporary site.
Meanwhile, the city continues to negotiate with the Yankees to move the team from Watertown, N.Y., where it is in the New York-Penn League, to a 7,500-seat stadium that would be built adjacent to the Staten Island Ferry Terminal. 
 The New York-Penn League plays at the Class A level, from June to August.
"We hope to conclude the deal in the near future," said Colleen Roche, a spokeswoman for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "I wouldn't be surprised if it were early next year."
Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, added, "Now we know we have a temporary facility for the team to play when and if negotiations are concluded."
The field was built in 1993 but needs bleachers and lighting to raise it to league standards, said John Hudacs, vice president of finance at the College of Staten Island. "We were contacted in May about doing this," he said.
A permanent stadium west of the ferry terminal could be built by 2001, said Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island borough president. "Right now, the city is in the final stages of negotiations. If everything goes well, the team would give notice not to stay in Watertown, so it would need a new site."
He added, "I'm optimistic we can reach the agreement."
A Yankee spokesman said that he was not aware of the negotiations. Executives of the Watertown team and the New York-Penn League were not available for comment yesterday.
If the Yankees conclude the deal to move the Watertown franchise to Staten Island, it would likely have a New York-Penn rival. The Mets are expected to move their Pittsfield, Mass., affiliate to a Coney Island ball park that would be built on the site of the abandoned Steeplechase Park amusement area.
 
McGwire Makes Good
Mark McGwire is a man of his word.
Sixteen months ago, McGwire announced his plan to help abused children. He pledged $1 million annually for three years to help those too small to defend themselves.
This week, McGwire cut the first of four checks from his own account. Two charities in St. Louis and two more in Southern California will get $175,000 each from the Mark McGwire Foundation for Children.
"God gave me the ability to make people happy and help them out," McGwire told The St. Louis Post-Dispatch on Tuesday. "This is the start of something I plan to be involved with for a long time to come."
Since he announced the start of the foundation in September 1997, McGwire said that people have stopped him across the country to share painful personal stories.
"It means so much to me when people don't want to just talk about baseball, when they see me as a human being who will listen to their stories," McGwire said.
McGwire acknowledged that the stories bothered him.
"We were just getting things off the ground," he said. "I feel that we didn't really start the foundation until this year. It was always my intention to make my first contribution near the end of 1998."
McGwire's donations have totaled $700,000. Of the other $300,000, he said about one-third went to producing and broadcasting public-service announcements that ran during last fall's playoffs and World Series.
Another chunk of the money will be saved for a $300,000 documentary on child abuse. (AP)
 
Tampa Bay Re-signs Kelly
Outfielder Mike Kelly, who hit .240 with 10 home runs for Tampa Bay last season, avoided arbitration and signed a contract with the Devil Rays yesterday.
Kelly, 28, started 52 games in right field and 37 in left. His totals for homers, runs batted in (32), hits (67), at-bats (279), games played (106) and stolen bases (13) were all career highs. Terms of the contract were not disclosed. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FERRIES (78%); MAYORS (74%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); CHARITIES (69%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



524 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Belgium Convicts 12 for Corruption on Military Contracts

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 23

 BODY:
A leading French industrialist and a former Secretary General of NATO were among 12 defendants convicted by Belgium's highest court today on corruption charges involving two military contracts in the late 1980's.
Serge Dassault, 75, head of the French military concern Dassault Aviation, was convicted of authorizing payment of 60 million Belgian francs, or $1.76 million, from the Electronique Serge Dassault subsidiary to the Socialist parties in the Dutch- and French-speaking parts of Belgium in 1989 in exchange for a $192 million contract to equip Belgian F-16 jets with new electronics. He received a two-year suspended sentence. 
 Willy Claes, 60, who resigned as Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in October 1995, was found guilty of charges that in 1988, as an official of the Socialist Party in the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium, he had authorized the acceptance of $1.37 million in kickbacks from an Italian helicopter manufacturer. He received a three-year suspended jail sentence, the maximum demanded by the prosecution, and was barred from holding office for five years.
The court also found the former Defense Minister of Belgium, Guy Coeme, 52, and Deputy Prime Minister, Guy Spitaels, 67, both Socialist officials, guilty of receiving bribes from Dassault and gave each of them two-year suspended sentences.
Eight other Belgian party officials were also convicted of various other corruption charges and received suspended jail terms of up to two years each.
The penalty for Mr. Claes was the maximum under Belgian laws that until recently had permitted corporations to make "donations" to political parties, a common practice in the freewheeling world of military contracting before 1989.
Mr. Dassault had long refused to go to Belgium to answer questions from investigators but attended the trial in Brussels, protesting his innocence, and left after today's verdict. The only payments that he knew about, he testified, were $1.76 million that his since-deceased mother had been tricked by Belgian swindlers into sending to a Swiss bank account.
But the court found that $1.76 million in payments by Dassault had insured that the electronics contract went to the French company instead of to the main rival bidder, Litton Industries of the United States.
Prosecutors picked up the corruption trail after Andre Cools, a Socialist leader in French-speaking Belgium, was murdered in Liege in 1991, purportedly for a share of bribery money from the Italian company Agusta S.p.A.
Mr. Claes was Belgium's Economic Affairs Minister in 1988, when Agusta received a $353 million contract to supply 46 A-109 helicopters, winning against bids from French and German competitors.
He became Secretary General of NATO in September 1994, but the Belgian Parliament voted to lift his parliamentary immunity from prosecution in October of the next year and he resigned, insisting that he was "totally innocent" of charges that he had approved a $1.5 million kickback from Agusta to the party.
But the Belgian court ruled today, "It is not excluded that prior to awarding the contract he gave his assent to his chief Cabinet aide to accept the offer made by Agusta."
Mr. Claes said today that he would appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Serge Dassault, above, head of Dassault Aviation, was convicted yesterday of corruption by a Belgium court. Also, a former Secretary General of NATO was found guilty of taking kickbacks from a helicopter maker. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: AM (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (62%); 

COUNTRY: BELGIUM (97%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: DASSAULT AVIATION AGUSTA SPA (62%); DASSAULT AVIATION SA (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DASSAULT AVIATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM; BELGIUM (97%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; BRIBERY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HELICOPTERS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS CORRUPTION (92%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); HELICOPTERS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); POLITICS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); IMMUNITY (73%); AIRLINES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; DASSAULT, SERGE; CLAES, WILLY; COEME, GUY; SPITAELS, GUY SERGE DASSAULT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



525 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Smugglers' Helpers

 BODY:
How earnest and public-minded it sounded when tobacco company executives warned early this year that the attempt to jack up cigarette prices through the pending national tobacco bill would inevitably lead to smuggling and a black market. No less than Steven Goldstone, the chairman and chief executive of RJR Nabisco, warned that it was virtually impossible to stop a determined batch of smugglers, given that 14 million cigarettes can fit into a single truck. Mr. Goldstone called it "irresponsible" to ignore the smuggling that neighboring countries had experienced when they raised cigarette taxes.
Well, now it turns out that Mr. Goldstone was assuredly right about the dangers of smuggling. The only problem was, he pointed his finger in the wrong direction. This week a marketing subsidiary of his own company pleaded guilty to criminal charges and paid $15 million for actions that enabled others to smuggle cigarettes into Canada. 
 The scheme was hatched after the Canadian Government raised tobacco taxes in an effort to cut smoking. Those taxes applied only to cigarettes sold in the Canadian market, not to exports. So cigarettes were shipped from a Reynolds plant in Canada to the United States, avoiding the Canadian levies. The guilty Reynolds subsidiary aided the filing of false statements by distributors that the cigarettes were to be shipped on to Russia and Estonia, a maneuver that exempted them from American taxes as well. In reality, the cigarettes were diverted into New York and ultimately back to Canada.
The subsidiary has admitted only to customs violations, not smuggling. But in truth, says United States Attorney Thomas J. Maroney, the subsidiary knew that the cigarettes were destined to be smuggled back into Canada, in this case through an Indian reservation in upstate New York.
RJR Nabisco says it "very much regrets" the episode and calls its subsidiary's actions "inconsistent with the way Reynolds does business." It has closed the subsidiary and is taking steps to prevent a recurrence. But the apologies seem a bit late. The tobacco industry has long been accused of looking the other way when it comes to smuggling. Now we know it is even worse. The shame of this episode is that a subsidiary of America's second-largest tobacco company actually helped the criminals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ESTONIA (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RJR NABISCO INC KRAFT NABISCO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RJR NABISCO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ESTONIA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SMUGGLING; EDITORIALS TOBACCO PRODUCTS (94%); SMUGGLING (92%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (91%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); TAX INCREASES (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); 

PERSON: STEVEN GOLDSTONE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



526 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: In the Rough With Makers Of Golf Clubs;
Sales Decline as Products Fail to Attract New Buyers

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK with SHARON R. KING 

DATELINE: CARLSBAD, Calif.

 BODY:
Perhaps it is no coincidence that as the cold war ended, the golf-club war began. In their quest for the ultimate ball launcher, club manufacturers turned to the space-age materials, computer-aided design techniques and laid-off engineers of their Southern California neighbors, the aerospace companies. And they guard their secrets just as closely.
"The security here is tighter than it was at Lockheed," said Tom Preece, who worked as an engineer on the F-22 fighter and is now product design manager at the Callaway Golf Company, where robots test clubs by hitting balls with a consistency that would make a weekend duffer weep with envy. 
 But now -- also like the aerospace business before it -- the golf-club industry is enduring a serious retrenchment.
Despite the sharp rise of interest in golf from aging boomers and a new influx of young people, sales in the $2.5 billion American golf-club market are off 10 to 20 percent this year, executives and analysts said. Golfers who once paid as much as $500 for the latest oversize titanium driver are becoming more cost-conscious. So prices are falling and inventories rising.
What's worse, new rules adopted last month by the United States Golf Association, the sport's governing body, could make it far more difficult for manufacturers to devise the next great advance that might stimulate demand. Indeed, the association's season-long review of how technology affects the game hung over the industry like a cloud all year.
One of the hardest hit has been the largest club maker, Callaway, which is known for its Big Bertha line. In October, the company dismissed its chief executive, Donald H. Dye, and gave the reins back to Ely Callaway, 79, its founder. Last month the company dismissed 700 employees, or nearly a quarter of its work force.
The Taylor Made Golf Company, the second-largest club maker, and Cobra Golf Inc., the third-largest, have also had layoffs; Cobra's president, Bob Dubiel, departed a few months ago. Lynx Golf Inc. and Snake Eyes Golf Clubs Inc., two smaller manufacturers, have filed for bankruptcy protection.
The problems come at a time when, by most measures, the sport is doing well. Owing largely to the popularity of Tiger Woods, the number of American golfers increased 7 percent in 1997 to 26.5 million, according to the National Golf Foundation, an industry group. The number of golf newcomers soared 51 percent, to three million. Until those gains, the numbers had barely budged since 1990, the foundation said. Figures for 1998 are not available, but people in the industry say the Tiger Woods boom has cooled.
To some extent, the industry was hurt by the poor weather inflicted by El Nino storms early in the year as well as by the economic crises in golf-loving Japan and the rest of East Asia. Callaway, which relies on Japan for about 10 percent of its sales, is selling half as much in that country as it was a year ago.
But a bigger problem, analysts and retailers say, is a lack of new products to excite golfers.
Club sales boomed in the 1990's, spurred initially by "oversize" drivers -- which were said to offer a bigger sweet spot for hitting longer and straighter shots -- and then even more when the industry developed clubs made of titanium, which is lighter and stronger than steel. The number of golfers barely changed, but club sales in the United States soared like a perfectly hit seven-iron, from $1.3 billion in 1993 to $2.5 billion last year, according to the National Sporting Goods Association.
Now, though, golfers have their titaniums and neither Callaway nor Taylor Made has introduced anything to replace them. "There's no must-have club out there," said Bud Leedom, publisher of Golf Insight & Investing, a newsletter in San Diego.
With the giants idle, two companies came out of virtually nowhere to pitch new fairway woods. The Orlimar Golf Equipment Company, an obscure operation for most of its 38-year history, expects sales of more than $50 million this year from its Trimetal clubs, versus only $1.5 million in 1997. And Adams Golf, of Plano, Tex., which makes the Tight Lies clubs, should achieve sales of about $100 million this year, up from $3 million two years ago.
Most of their gains came out of the hide of Callaway, whose market share in metal woods fell from about 39 percent a year ago to 27 percent in September. Taylor Made also lost a few points of market share.
But the golf industry's problems might be catching up even to the new highfliers. Adams, which went public in July at $16 a share, closed yesterday at $3.875 and the company expects to barely break even this quarter. Orlimar, based in Hayward, Calif., postponed plans to go public.
Some golfers say equipment makers raised prices too high. "It got to a ridiculous point, with Callaway coming up with bigger heads and charging $100 more each time they improved it," said David Palmer, 28, a corporate bond salesman at Lehman Brothers, who has not yet bought a titanium driver.
Prices have started to plummet. Taylor Made, for example, cut prices three times in 12 months on its top-of-the-line Ti Bubble 2 driver, bringing the retail price down from more than $450 to as little as $250.
"We have learned that arrogance in price has not really worked," said George Montgomery, president of Taylor Made, which is owned by Adidas-Salomon, the German sporting goods company. Adidas reported that Taylor Made sales shrank 24 percent in the third quarter.
The slowdown has hit hardest in Carlsbad, a city of 70,000 about 20 miles north of San Diego that is home to Callaway, Taylor Made, Cobra and smaller companies. That has earned it the moniker "Titanium Valley."
But there is less interaction among the companies than, say, in Silicon Valley. Mr. Callaway and Mr. Montgomery, for example, have never met. And the companies are always shooting barbs at one another in their public relations.
Golf remains the biggest industry here, but the number of workers has shrunk from more than 5,000 to about 4,000, about a tenth of the town's labor pool. Still, city officials say, Carlsbad is not suffering; unemployment in San Diego County was only 3.2 percent in November. The opening next spring of a Legoland theme park should also help.
Callaway's layoffs came after its net income dived 84 percent in the third quarter to $5.8 million; sales fell by a third, to $173 million.
Based on the success of the Big Bertha line, Callaway's sales shot from $21 million in 1990 to $843 million last year. But this year sales will drop to about $700 million; the company's share price has plunged from a 12-month high of almost $34 in February to $10 yesterday.
Some analysts say the company simply took its eye off the ball. It began moving into other businesses like golf-book publishing and driving ranges. That strategy, now abandoned, cost Mr. Dye, the former chief executive, his job.
Mr. Callaway, who was chairman during Mr. Dye's two-year tenure, said the worst is behind the company. "We're not going to have anywhere near the negative surprises we've had," he said. But the company also does not expect significant sales increases for several quarters.
Other companies are also hurting. Cobra experienced a "significant" decline in sales and profits in the third quarter, according to its parent company, Fortune Brands, a conglomerate that also makes Titleist clubs and balls and Footjoy golf shoes. Cobra sales are down 2 percent for the year, but 15 percent in the third quarter. In contrast to Cobra, Titleist's golf club sales are up 38 percent this year because of new product introductions.
Callaway is also trying to promote new lines. In August, it introduced a smaller-headed line of steel drivers and fairway woods that seems to have stopped its losses to Orlimar and Adams; it is now working on a new line of titanium woods. Mr. Callaway would not say when it would be introduced but suggested that the clubs would stay oversized and expensive. He scoffed at those who say that club heads have gotten too big and prices too high.
"If we come up with something that's better than what we have now, the price will be secondary," he said.
Still, there is a question of just how much better any club can get. When the United States Golf Association began its review of whether equipment advances let players hit the ball with greater distance and accuracy -- thus imperiling the integrity of the game -- the industry feared that existing clubs could be banned.
Last month, the association adopted new regulations to limit a so-called trampoline effect, in which the club face bends inward when it hits the ball and then springs back, propelling the ball farther. Under ferocious lobbying by the makers, though, the association said that virtually all existing clubs conformed to the new standard.
Even so, some manufacturers say, future advances will be stymied. Mr. Callaway acknowledged that a "substantial improvement" over existing clubs "probably will not conform." He threatened to sue if the association rejected a Callaway club.
But Dick Rugge, director of research and development at Taylor Made Golf, said the rules made sense. "There's plenty of other points we can work on," he said.
Some say the sport needs to attract more players by making playing times shorter and protocols less intimidating. The bulk of golf equipment is bought by only about 5.6 million avid golfers.
"People don't realize," said Leigh Bader, manager of the pro shop at the Pine Oaks Golf Course in South Easton, Mass., "what a small pie is being fought for."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "If we come up with something that's better than what we have now, the price will be secondary," said Ely Callaway, holding a Big Bertha. Below, a bagful of competing models in the market for high-end drivers. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Missing Links"
Even though the game of golf is more popular than ever, sales are hurting this year. Golfers have balked at paying stiff prices for equipment and have seen few new exciting products. Chart tracks number of U.S. golfers who have played more than once, plotted every other year, from 1987 to 1997. It also tracks golf club sales, since 1988.
 
GOLF CLUB PRICES*
 
TITLEIST
Titanium Driver -- $399
 
PING
IST Titanium Driver -- $399
 
CALLAWAY
Biggest Big Bertha Titanium Driver-- $399
 
TAYLOR MADE
TI Bubble 2 -- $299
 
COBRA
King Cobra Titanium 3-wood -- $240
 
ORLIMAR
Tri-metal -- $269
 
ADAMS
Tight Lies -- $180
 
*Prices at Family Golf Centers, New York
 
(Source: National Sporting Goods Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ELY (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSN; CALLAWAY GOLF CO CALLAWAY GOLF CO (92%); COBRA GOLF INC (64%); TAYLORMADE-ADIDAS GOLF (64%); SNAKE EYES GOLF CLUBS INC (63%); LYNX GOLF INC (63%); UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (82%); UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL SPORTING GOODS ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL SPORTING GOODS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSN; CALLAWAY GOLF CO UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (82%); UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL SPORTING GOODS ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL SPORTING GOODS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SALES; SPORTING GOODS GOLF (93%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (77%); ENGINEERING SOFTWARE (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INVENTORIES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); EL NINO & LA NINA (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; KING, SHARON R TIGER WOODS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



527 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stands Firm in Calling For U.N. Inspections in Iraq

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
In the face of international calls for changes in the Iraqi weapons inspection program, the Clinton Administration said today that it would stick to its demand that Iraq allow strict United Nations inspections to resume.
Even as the Pentagon ordered a withdrawal of some of the American forces sent to the Persian Gulf, Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, said in a speech that the United States would continue to work to contain the regime of Saddam Hussein. He said that Washington stood ready to use force again to stop Baghdad from developing nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, and he demanded that economic sanctions remain in force. 
 "If there's not some method of verifying compliance, then we cannot envision there being any form of sanctions relief," Mr. Berger said.
He continued: "The strategy we can and will pursue is to contain Saddam in the short and medium term, by force if necessary, and to work toward a new government over the long term. The goal of containment is to prevent Saddam from rebuilding his deadly weapons and from threatening his neighbors."
Yet even as Mr. Berger spoke, a former concealment expert with the United Nations Special Commission, Scott Ritter, said in an interview that the United States and Britain relied on obsolete intelligence in directing their bombing campaigns against Iraq's weapons-related plants.
"There is absolutely no doubt that we bombed a lot of empty buildings," said Mr. Ritter, who resigned from the Special Commission in August in disgust at American policy.
The Iraqis had been prepared for a military strike more than a month ago, when President Clinton called off a bombing raid at the last minute, and so had moved much of its most critical weapons-related equipment and infrastructure long before last week's air raids, Mr. Ritter said. "I can tell you that the U.S. intelligence is not very good on this stuff," he said.
Mr. Ritter's statements were echoed by a current Unscom inspector, Rod Barton, a microbiologist whose Op-Ed article in The New York Times today was critical of the Clinton Administration's Iraq policies. He wrote that the "damage done to Iraq's weapon-making ability was probably marginal." Iraq, he wrote, has a well-honed ability to move and hide elements of its weapons programs.
Coming in the face of such criticism -- in addition to renewed pressure from France, Russia and other nations for a diplomatic compromise between the United Nations and Iraq -- Mr. Berger's speech was intended to make it clear that Washington is not going to ease up on Baghdad, a White House official stressed. "The message is we are going to stay engaged in containing Saddam, and loosening the sanctions regime is not going to happen," the official said.
Mr. Berger said the United States would oppose any efforts to weaken Unscom's authority to inspect and monitor Iraq's weapons programs, while also rejecting suggestions that the United Nations Security Council make it easier for Iraq to end years of economic sanctions.
"We should not reward Iraqi intransigence with new watered-down monitoring mechanisms designed to meet Iraq's demands," he said. "We don't believe that we ought to lower the bar. We don't believe we ought to dumb down the system."
Mr. Berger also observed that the bombing campaign was not designed to eliminate Mr. Hussein's weapons of mass destruction, or to oust him from power. Instead, the operation had less ambitious goals -- to degrade his weapons programs, and diminish his ability to control his country.
"The operation that ended on Saturday inflicted substantial damage on Saddam's weapons-of-mass-destruction programs and on his military capability to threaten his neighbors," Mr. Berger said. "That does not mean the threat is gone."
Meanwhile, the United States is moving to unwind the large military force it had built up in the region in recent weeks, Administration officials said.
The number of American troops in the gulf region is scheduled to be reduced from more than 29,000 to 21,000 to 22,000.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (90%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (90%); FRANCE (77%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES; BERGER, SAMUEL R BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



528 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Some Expect Pacificare's Rosy Picture Will Change

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
Pacificare Health Systems seems insulated from the problems of the rest of the managed care industry. While the majority of H.M.O.'s are losing money covering the elderly under Medicare, Pacificare, the nation's largest Medicare H.M.O., is solidly profitable. The company is even telling Wall Street analysts that it should be able to increase its earnings by about 25 percent in 1999.
And while managed care stocks are down by an average of 7 percent so far this year, Pacificare's nonvoting class B shares are up an impressive 49 percent. The shares closed yesterday at $77.9375 each, down 6.25 cents. 
 But some analysts and investors are not convinced that Pacificare is quite as exceptional as it may appear. Some say that the company's impressive performance is a result in part of how it is accounting for its future medical costs, which has resulted in higher earnings. Others believe that it is only a matter of time before the harsh economics facing H.M.O.'s that serve the Medicare population -- whose medical costs are rising faster than premiums -- catch up with the company.
Kevin C. Holt, an analyst with the Strong Opportunity and Common Stock funds, has been avoiding Medicare H.M.O.'s and has been trying to find H.M.O.'s with less exposure to the market. While Pacificare has been able to control its costs better than many competitors, the overall environment "makes me pretty nervous," he said.
Others have similar worries. "Pacificare is likely to disappoint investors severely in 1999," warned Anne K. Anderson, an analyst with the Atlantis Investment Company in Parsippany, N.J., who is widely credited with predicting the downfall of another H.M.O., Oxford Health Plans. She is shorting the stock, or betting that the shares will fall in price.
Pacificare is not without its defenders, of course. The company has recovered nicely from the trouble it had in digesting its acquisition of FHP International, when it found itself with some unprofitable business. Its stock has also bounced back from its lows of early 1997, although it is still trading below its July high of $93.25.
Pacificare, based in Santa Ana, Calif., also enjoys some important advantages. The bulk of its members are in California, where doctors are used to operating under managed care as the state has been a pioneer in the field. The company's contracts largely protect it from rising costs because many of its doctors have agreed to provide whatever care is necessary for a fixed sum. The company says that about 80 percent of its Medicare costs are controlled through these so-called capitated arrangements.
Pacificare has "offloaded the risk to multispecialty groups and other types of providers," said Joseph Martingale, a consultant with Towers Perrin in New York.
But at least some of Pacificare's recent success seems to be a result of changes in the way the company is accounting for future medical costs. Its reserves -- the money it puts aside to cover medical claims and benefits -- have not kept up with the growth of its premiums, according to a report by the Center for Financial Research and Analysis Inc., a Rockville, Md., group that scrutinizes accounting for investors. As a percentage of its quarterly premium revenue, Pacificare's medical reserves had declined to 27.9 percent at the end of September from 30.5 percent at the end of 1997.
The lower reserves may have resulted in "an artificial boost to reported earnings," according to the center. Had Pacificare kept the amount of its reserves constant as a percentage of its premiums, medical costs would have increased by about $62 million for the first nine months of the year, the center calculated, and its net income over that period would have been reduced by about $32 million. Earnings would have been $2.41 a share, compared with the $3.12 a share that Pacificare reported.
Many of Pacificare's competitors, including Humana, Wellpoint Health Networks and Foundation Health Systems, are reserving a much higher portion of their premium dollar, according to the center. Foundation Health, for example, has 38.6 percent of its premium revenue in reserves, and Humana has 60.6 percent. Pacificare's relatively low level of reserves "could leave the company vulnerable to the potential depletion of its reserve and a possible charge to earnings in the event of higher-than-anticipated future claims," the center said.
Alan R. Hoops, Pacificare's chairman and chief executive, said that Pacificare was able to lower the amount it was putting into reserve because it had sharply reduced its claims backlog. Its contracts also allow it to reserve less than its competitors. "As compared with many other companies, we are not as exposed to claims liability," he said.
But even if Pacificare's success has entirely been the product of its own abilities, the future looks uncertain. The company may not be able to lower its reserves as a percentage of its premiums in future years, and the Medicare market is proving extraordinarily difficult for any H.M.O. to make money.
"We are asking health plans to operate with too little money," said Kirby Bosley, a principal with the consulting firm of William M. Mercer in Los Angeles.
The Government is expected to pay H.M.O.'s about 2 percent more next year, but health care costs are expected to climb 6 to 8 percent. The costs of prescription drugs are expected to rise even faster, anywhere from 12 to 15 percent, she said.
Doctors, who have been pushed to accept less to deliver care and assume more of the risk of unexpected spikes in medical costs, may not be willing -- or able -- to provide care under these terms. Pacificare plans to offer them about half the premium increase it will get in 1999 -- an increase of less than 1 percent. Doctors "are hurting already with what they are being paid," Ms. Bosley said.
And if some medical groups fail, Pacificare may be affected. When FPA Medical Management, a company that bought and managed physician practices, filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this year, Pacificare had to ante up $35 million to cover possible unpaid claims by FPA and other insolvent providers. But Mr. Hoops of Pacificare contends that FPA was an exception and that the vast majority of medical groups are financially sound.
To be sure, the Government could end up paying these plans more for their coverage than it has indicated it will. But predicting what will happen in Washington is not easy.
Dealing with the Government also represents another risk. According to the Center for Financial Research and Analysis, the mass defection of H.M.O.'s from the Medicare market could prompt the Office of Inspector General of the Health Care Financing Administration to take a look into how H.M.O.'s, "particularly those with relatively large Medicare concentrations," are determining the benefits they offer and designing their plans. Pacificare said it believed it was in full compliance with any Federal rules.
No matter what happens, Pacificare could have a hard time achieving its ambitious profit goals next year. The company says it can get the bulk of its higher earnings through its commercial business, where it has been increasing its rates. But a third of the costs it incurs covering employees is not controlled through its capitated arrangements. And Pacificare is still counting on some improvement in profitability in its Medicare business by increasing membership and lowering overhead expenses. And its Medicare business still accounts for more than half of its revenue.
Pacificare is also counting on increasing its overall membership by about 5 percent "in our existing markets," according to Mr. Hoops, despite the membership declines the company expects to report for 1998.
Pacificare may prove the skeptics wrong. But it will not be easy. Even Mr. Hoops concedes that if the Government continues to refuse to increase its payments in line with rising medical and drug costs, the company could be forced to either cut its benefits or raise its prices. "We can't make it, and neither can the physicians," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (84%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (84%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; AGED HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MEDICARE (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); COMMON STOCK (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



529 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Fed Discloses Dissent On November Rate Cut
The Federal Reserve's decision on Nov. 17 to cut interest rates was driven by concern that problems in the financial markets might again intensify and drag down the economy, a summary of the meeting shows.
 The Fed minutes said that the decision to cut rates in November "was viewed as a close call by several members," but the sole dissenter was Jerry L. Jordan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. He said that two previous quarter-point cuts had been sufficient. Page C2. 

Durable-Goods Orders Advance
Orders for durable goods rose 1 percent in November, more than expected. Consumer confidence remained high during December, the University of Michigan said. C2.
 
For Children, Medicine or Candy?
Drug companies are selling candy-like over-the-counter remedies for treating children's ailments like colds, sore throats and even asthma. But some doctors say that treating any medicine as if it were candy is confusing and potentially dangerous for children. A1.
 
Suit Cites Chase and J. P. Morgan
A suit filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn accuses Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan of wrongfully seizing bank accounts and safe-deposit assets of Jewish customers during the Nazi occupation of France in World War II. Chase called the suit unnecessary; Morgan said it would look into the issue. C16.
 
Lockheed Martin Warns on Profits
Lockheed Martin said profit this year and next year would be even lower than it forecast last month because sales were declining and production delays were increasing. Its shares tumbled 11 percent. C2.
 
Cray Trade Ruling to Be Reviewed
A Federal court ordered United States trade officials to reconsider their ruling that unfairly priced exports by Japanese supercomputer makers threatened to harm the Cray Research division of Silicon Graphics. C3.
 
French Industrialist Convicted
Serge Dassault, 75, head of the French military concern Dassault Aviation, was convicted by Belgium's highest court on corruption charges involving two military contracts in the late 1980's, as was Willy Claes, 60, a former NATO Secretary General. C3.
 
Ford Link Is Rumored for Volvo
Shares of both Volvo A.B. and Bayerische Motoren Werke A.G., or BMW, jumped on speculation that each car maker was holding talks with Ford Motor that could lead to a merger or another link. BMW called merger rumors unfounded, while Volvo and Ford declined comment. Excess capacity in the global auto industry has brought merger forecasts. C3.
 
Big Board Considers Early Trading
Seeking to become a more global market, the New York Stock Exchange will consider trading foreign stocks as early as 5 A.M. C5.
 
Italian Central Bank Cuts Rate
The Italian central bank, completing European rate alignment, cut its benchmark interest rate to 3 percent. C3.
 
Cities Suing the Gun Industry
Heartened by the success states have had in suing tobacco companies, cities are now taking legal aim at the gun industry. A1.
 
Of Balsa Planes and Hula Hoops
With baby boomers now old enough for a second childhood, stores like Restoration Hardware in New York are doing a booming business in reproductions of such 1940's and 50's toys as Slinkys and Duncan yo-yos. F1.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,202.93, up 157.57
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.18%, up 0.05
The Dollar -- 115.96 yen, down 0.69
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Personal Income
 November figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.4%
 
Another graph tracks the Volvo's A.D.R. price, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (82%); BMW (BIT) (82%); VOLV.B (STO) (81%); VOLV.A (STO) (81%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); LMT (NYSE) (54%); AM (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (52%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (82%); AB VOLVO (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (72%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (54%); DASSAULT AVIATION SA (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (52%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); COMMON COLD (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CORRUPTION (66%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); FIREARMS (50%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: SERGE DASSAULT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



530 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Led by Intel, Stocks Rise as S.& P. 500 and Nasdaq Hit Records

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks barreled ahead yesterday with two main gauges setting records and a third, the Dow Jones industrial average, posting a gain that left it just 1.9 percent shy of uncharted territory.
Although trading volume trailed off with the approach of the Christmas holiday -- the market will close at 1 P.M. today -- mutual fund managers and other professionals were said to be busy shuffling portfolios to cast them in the best light for year-end reports. 
"The last couple days, there's been a rush to get money to work," said Robert A. von Pentz, a portfolio manager for Columbia Partners in Washington. At the same time, he added, many investors who otherwise might be inclined to cash in some profits remained on the sidelines to avoid having to pay taxes on them.
"If you were thinking of selling your big winners, you might wait until January," Mr. von Pentz said. Selling them then would defer the tax bite an extra year.
Meanwhile, the speculative frenzy in Internet stocks generally subsided even as a few of them posted sensational gains. Ticketmaster, for example, soared 32, to 80 1/2, while Ubid rocketed 53 1/2, to 188, less than three weeks after going public at 15.
One source of market inspiration came from Merrill Lynch, which raised its long skeptical view of Intel to "accumulate," helping to drive the stock up 5 15/16, to 125. Microsoft, another technology kingpin, jumped 5 1/8, to 143 9/16.
Over all, the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index advanced 51.56 points, or 2.43 percent, to 2,172.54, handily surpassing the record it set on Monday.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the benchmark for many portfolio managers, rose 24.97 points, or 2.07 percent, to 1,228.54, its third straight record. The Dow climbed 157.57 points, or 1.74 percent, to 9,202.03. The Dow reached a record 9,374.27 on Nov. 23.
The day's relentless advance, which seemed to disregard both President Clinton's impeachment and the latest batch of economic reports, was dampened briefly after the Federal Reserve published the minutes of its Nov. 17 policy meeting. Page C2.
Besides confirming an assumption that the central bank had abandoned its bias toward lower rates, the minutes portrayed Fed policy makers as less convinced that the economy was about to slow than many analysts had believed them to be.
Even though the minutes seemed to harden the view that the Fed's third rate cut this autumn would be its last for some time, stocks resumed their advance and closed at or near their best levels of the day.
One prominent American casualty was Lockheed Martin, the military contractor, which issued another warning of lower profits and plunged as low as 82 before closing at 84 1/2, down 10 1/2. But United Technologies, another company with military operations, was the biggest gainer among the 30 Dow blue chips, up 3 7/8, to 108 5/16.
The next three were Procter & Gamble, up 3 1/2, Wal-Mart Stores, up 3 1/8, and Coca-Cola, up 3.
"I think the market remains comfortable with large-capitalization growth stocks," said Daniel B. Eagan, a portfolio manager at Black Rock Inc. in Philadelphia. Value stocks, he suggested, will need to wait for "another day."
Drug makers, some of which have been battered of late, rebounded smartly. Pfizer rose 3 3/16, to 120 3/8; Merck was up 2 1/4, to 149 5/8, and American Home Products climbed 1 15/16, to 54 1/8.
Financial issues were mostly higher, with Suntrust, up 3 1/2, to 77 1/2, a leader among banks and Charles Schwab, up 2 3/8, to 57 13/16, posting one of the biggest gains among brokers. Equifax, however, which provides credit reports and other financial information, skidded 9 1/2, to 34 1/2, after warning of an earnings shortfall because it had been too optimistic about its European business.
The strongest major market in Europe yesterday was Germany's, where the main index climbed 2.03 percent. The gains in France and Britain were 1.36 percent and 1.12 percent, respectively.
In Brazil, the Bovespa rose eight-tenths of 1 percent, but stocks fell 1.59 percent in Hong Kong.
 
Treasury Prices Down
By Bloomberg News
Bond prices fell for a third day yesterday as the Federal Reserve suggested it was not leaning toward a cut in interest rates.
"We're going to need some signs of the U.S. economy slowing down" before the Fed can cut rates for a fourth time and yields can fall much further, said Wayne Schmidt, who helps manage $600 million at Advantus Capital Management in St. Paul.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 20/32, to 101 4/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.18 percent, from 5.13 percent on Tuesday. Yields on two-year notes, the most actively traded Treasuries and among those most sensitive to Fed expectations, climbed 12 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.69 percent.
Traders sold bonds as stocks rose, dimming the allure of Treasuries as a safer investment. Also weighing on bonds was the release of the minutes from the Fed's Nov. 17 policy meeting, which showed policy makers moving to a neutral stance on rates, and the Commerce Department's revision on third-quarter growth, which showed the economy expanded at a 3.7 percent annual rate.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); LMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); INTEL CORP (84%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



531 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Icy Storm System Sweeps the Country; South Is Hit Hard

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
Freezing rain coated highways today with a thin, sometimes invisible cape of ice that stretched from central Texas to the Carolinas as frigid winds swept out of the northwest and pushed their way toward the Gulf of Mexico.
Dozens of wrecks and fatalities were reported in a half-dozen states. In the most freakish incident, a pair of apparently unrelated accidents that occurred just minutes apart on opposite sides of the same Interstate 35 overpass in Austin, Tex., just after 1 A.M. today resulted in a 58-car pileup that left two people dead. 
 Forecasters predicted more sleety, slushy, icy messes tonight as a cold front out of the northwest slid gradually to the east and north, and traffic officials in much of the Southeast were warning travelers to go slow or stay at home.
The freeze is having an economic impact on California, where agriculture officials said the citrus industry had already had more than a half-billion dollars in damage.
Three central California counties -- Fresno, Kern and Tulare -- estimated they had lost all, or nearly all, of their lemon crops, with Tulare County losing 85 percent of its citrus crop.
Highs today were in the single digits in the upper Plains, in the teens and 20's from the central Plains into South Texas and in the 30's and 40's in northern parts of the other Gulf Coast States and into the West. It fell to 26 degrees in Las Vegas, Nev., and to 21 degrees near San Diego.
At the same time, significant accumulations of snow had fallen across the northern Great Lakes States, upstate New York and the mountains of New England -- leading to good news, at least, for some of the regions' snow-starved ski areas.
The areas of the country hardest hit today, particularly Texas and Tennessee, had only a bleak Christmas in the forecast, with predictions of more freezing rain and sleet.
The two accidents that began the Austin pileup were relatively minor, but approaching cars were unable to stop and began plowing into one another in both the northbound and southbound lanes of the Interstate at the U.S. 290 overpass on the city's north side, said Kevin Buchman, an Austin police spokesman.
Two people involved in those secondary collisions, a 19-year-old woman who was in a northbound car and a 30-year-old man who was in a southbound car, both of them from Austin, were killed.
Jay Root, who managed to drive through the mess without crashing, told The Associated Press: "I noticed my windshield was freezing over. I started to slow down. As I hit the brakes, I started sliding. I looked to my left, a car was sliding. I looked to my right, a car was sliding. I somehow threaded the needle between the two cars. There were wrecks to the left of me, there were wrecks to the right of me."
In central and South Texas, which rarely sees such conditions and had been enjoying temperatures in the middle 70's just a few days ago, officials frantically tried to warn motorists how to drive on ice and what to do if their car heaters failed.
The Austin police responded to 350 accident reports from midnight to 11 A.M., Mr. Buchman said. Other departments around the state were reporting similar figures, far above normal.
Four other deaths were reported on Texas roads: a 7-month-old child and a man were killed in separate accidents on I-10 near San Antonio, a Fort Worth man was killed when his car slid into a fence, and a 33-year-old man from Duncanville was killed when his car slid into a highway sign on I-20 near Dallas.
The San Angelo State School lost heat Monday night in 19-degree temperatures when a water line broke, forcing officials to keep the 317 mentally disabled residents warm with blankets and space heaters. Heat was restored this afternoon.
Shelters in Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Austin and other Texas cities were also reporting a huge influx of cold, homeless people and some of the shelters said they were running out of coats and blankets.
"We are at full capacity, but we're not going to turn anyone away," said Gary Brown, director of the Star of Hope Men's Shelter in Houston.
Numerous flights were delayed or canceled early today at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport as efforts to de-ice the planes and clear runways bogged down. Many offices and businesses through the state were hastily closed today as the extent of the weather emergency became evident, and classes were canceled at many of the colleges and trade schools still in session.
The police in Oklahoma reported 14 traffic deaths in the storm, which blanketed much of the state with sleet and ice, and there was a five-mile backup at the Texas border on I-35 this morning.
Health officials warned of the effects of such a sudden drop in temperatures and asked people to take precautions against the frigid winds. A 76-year-old woman was found dead in her nursing home parking lot in Brighton, Colo., where temperatures fell below zero. And a 73-year-old man fell through the ice while fishing Tuesday in Cherry Creek State Park in Colorado.
The same weather system also brought much of central Tennessee to a standstill. Brian Jones, a dispatcher for the Tennessee Highway Patrol, said the number of accidents on area highways was "uncountable," as most roads were "ice-covered and very hazardous" and there were several multi-car pileups.
South of Nashville, several miles of I-24 were closed for four hours this morning due to the weather, and even three hours after one lane was reopened the traffic was "barely moving out there," Mr. Jones said.
"More than likely, we're going to have several more closures in the next day or so," he said, and the stretch of I-24 over Monteagle Mountain, north of Chattanooga, would be "probably the first to go."
In Memphis, Federal Express said today that it had been forced to delay some of its flights from its hub there because of the weather.
Sleet was falling throughout the day in Tennessee and forecasters said it would turn to freezing rain overnight. Residents were reminded of a ruinous 1994 ice storm that hit central Tennessee particularly hard.
"Those of us who lived for five or six days without power a few years ago are dreading it," said Robert Hicks, a music executive who lives in a rural area of Williamson County, southwest of Nashville.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Unseasonably cold winds made skating rinks of wet roads like these in Little Rock, Ark., where Fred Williams, a bus driver, spread salt yesterday. Air traffic was slowed by the cold snap. In Dallas, numerous flights were delayed as planes, like the one above at Love Field, had to be de-iced. (Photographs by The Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; NEW YORK STATE; SOUTHERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ICE; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); SKIING (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); CITRUS GROVES (73%); POLICE FORCES (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



532 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: HOMICIDES DECLINE BELOW 1964 LEVEL IN NEW YORK CITY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
The number of killings reported so far this year in New York City has fallen to 606, putting the city on a pace to end the year with fewer homicides than it had in 1964, when the Beatles played "The Ed Sullivan Show," the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge opened and a woman named Kitty Genovese was killed in Queens.
The huge drop in crime means that if the pace continues, the city will log less than a third of the number of homicides this year that it did in 1990, when a record 2,262 people were killed. Over all, the number of major crimes reported through Dec. 20 dropped 11 percent from 1997, according to preliminary Police Department figures. The biggest declines were in homicides, which dropped 19 percent from last year, and car thefts, which dropped 15 percent. 
 Reported crime dropped in every borough, in the subways and in public housing. There were fewer reported robberies, assaults, burglaries, grand larcenies and car thefts, and -- despite early indications that the drop in rapes was leveling off -- 11 percent fewer rapes.
The reasons for the decline are varied: experts point to the stronger economy, a drop in the number of people in their late teens and early 20's, the waning of the crack epidemic and an increase in the number of people behind bars. But a growing number of criminologists now also give credit to police strategies.
Police Commissioner Howard Safir said the plummeting crime rates vindicated the department's move away from the community-policing strategies of the early 1990's, which called for more neighborhood officers on the beat, toward a new strategy of using computer maps to chart crime and assigning officers to major antidrug initiatives in all five boroughs.
"I'm not going to be bullied by community activists who say, 'We want feel-good cops,' " Mr. Safir said in an interview. "The bottom line is crime reduction."
Crime has been dropping across the nation for the last six years, but not as steeply as it has in New York City. In 1997, the last year for which national statistics are available, reports of major crimes dropped 2 percent nationwide but 9 percent in New York City. Criminologists say the decline in New York has contributed substantially to the nationwide statistical drop in crime.
But while the city is on a pace to log even fewer homicides this year than it did in 1964, when 636 people were reported killed -- among them Kitty Genovese, who was stabbed to death as 38 neighbors heard her screams and did nothing -- little else about the nature of crime in the city and the criminal justice system remains the same.
In 1964, 27 percent of the city's homicide victims were killed by guns; in 1998, more than twice as many victims -- roughly 60 percent -- were killed by guns. After guns, the most common means of murder in 1998 were knives, blunt instruments, brute force and strangulation in that order, according to police statistics.
It is difficult to compare how other crimes measure up to 1964 levels because the Police Department overhauled its counting methods in 1966, charging that "self-serving" police officials had undercounted crimes other than homicide for several years. So the official 1964 levels, which experts believe are artificially low, show fewer than half as many rapes as there were in 1998, a quarter of the robberies and half as many assaults. The number of reported burglaries this year is roughly the same as it was in 1964.
While overall population decreased slightly -- 7,781,984 in the 1960 census versus 7,322,564 in the 1990 census -- the size of the Police Department has grown tremendously since 1964. Back then, there were about 25,900 people on the force. Now, the department has swelled to nearly 40,000, fed by the 1993 mergers with the transit police and housing police and by the Safe Streets-Safe City tax increase enacted by the Dinkins administration to finance additional officers.
The number of arrests has skyrocketed since then as well. While 93,627 people were arrested in 1964, 396,237 people were arrested this year, largely a result of the Police Department's crackdown on "quality of life" crimes.
And the number of prisoners has gone way up. In 1964 the average daily population in the city's jails was 10,848; this year it is nearly 18,000. The increase in state prisons is even more pronounced: the average daily population has risen to more than 69,000 prisoners from 19,439 in 1964.
"The criminal justice apparatus is much bigger, much expanded," said Dr. Andrew Karmen, a sociologist at John Jay College of Criminal Justice who studies murder in New York City. "In those days, there was a greater emphasis on rehabilitation, alternatives to incarceration and getting to the root causes of crime. Today there's more emphasis on punishment and incarceration. But it's an open question whether or not the criminal justice system deserves the credit for the drop in crime."
The subways, which saw a troubling increase in crime in the last months of 1997, showed a 24 percent drop this year. Mr. Safir added more than 300 officers and detectives to the Transit Bureau in late 1997.
There was only one homicide in the subways this year, down from four last year, and it involved a woman killed by her former husband. There were 369 fewer robberies reported and 89 fewer assaults.
Rapes, however, saw a marked increase in the subways. Fourteen rapes were reported in the system this year, up from only two last year. Investigators say they believe that several of those rapes were the work of a serial rapist now in custody.
Crime dropped in every precinct in the city, Mr. Safir said. In Central Park, where a murder and a flurry of well-publicized muggings created the perception of a crime wave this fall, crime actually dropped by 22 percent. In Greenwich Village, where residents grew concerned that there were four killings this year, up from none the year before, overall crime was down nearly 5 percent.
The biggest drops in reported crime were in the traditionally most dangerous neighborhoods. The 32d Precinct in Harlem saw a 70 percent drop in reported homicides, to 6 this year from 20 last year. The 34th Precinct in Washington Heights saw a 56 percent drop in killings, to 8 this year from 18 the year before.
Homicides did rise in some areas. The 48th Precinct in the Fordham section of the Bronx saw the number of killings rise 64 percent this year, to 23, up from 14 last year. And the 75th Precinct in East New York, Brooklyn, reported the most homicides in the city this year, 37, up from 31 the year before. But it is well below 1993, when 110 people were killed there.
Mr. Safir said that the department's antidrug initiatives in northern Manhattan, northern Brooklyn, the South Bronx, southeastern Queens and Staten Island had helped drive crime down across the city. The initiatives use undercover officers and detectives who focus on rounding up drug dealers, and uniformed officers who are sent to new sites every day to crack down on "quality of life" crimes.
Mr. Safir and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani are both fond of pointing out that the leaders of adjacent communities have complained to them that New York's effective policing has moved crime to neighboring areas. And for Mr. Giuliani, the continued drop in crime under his watch is sure to become a potent campaign issue should he run for higher office.
But while there is plenty of anecdotal evidence that people are beginning to feel safer in the city, from the new bodegas opening in Washington Heights without bulletproof glass to the families who stroll through Times Square to a boom in tourism, many New Yorkers have yet to cast off their seemingly innate wariness.
Even as crime fell this year, the number of security guards who were licensed by New York State rose to 97,261 this year, up from 91,852 last year. Private security companies, burglar alarm makers and armored car companies are all reporting increased earnings, said John C. Mallon, the publisher of Security Investing, a monthly newsletter.
"Although the crime rates are down in the city and elsewhere, you wouldn't know it by the continued growth of the security industry," he said.
And while some of the old neighborhood crime watches that were formed during the worst of the crime epidemic of the early 1990's are now having trouble enlisting volunteers, plenty of new neighborhood watch groups are springing up.
"Many of the longstanding patrols are sort of suffering because people have dropped off," said Ed Powell, the executive director of Umma Group, a community organization that trains neighborhood watch groups. "There seems to be a sense that crime is down, that everything is better."
But some new groups are taking the places of the old ones. "Strangely enough, a lot of new patrols are popping up now," Mr. Powell said, noting that he had just been helping a group of Pakistani immigrants form a watch group in Flatbush, Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Fewer Killings ..." shows number of homocides reported in New York City, since 1985. (Source: New York City Police Dept.)(pg. B7)
 
"... Less Crime Overall" lists homocide, rape, robbery, assault, burglary, grand larceny and auto theft crimes reported, for Manhattan South, Manhattan North, Bronx, Brooklyn South, Brooklyn North, Queens South, Queens North and Staten Island police precincts through Dec. 20. (Source: New York City Police Dept.)(pg. B7)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; SEX CRIMES; POLICE; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; AUTOMOBILES CRIME RATES (92%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); VEHICLE THEFT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COCAINE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ROBBERY (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); DEATHS (76%); BURGLARY (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); DRUG POLICY (65%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL EDWARD VINCENT 'ED' SULLIVAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



533 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
Credit Ratings Lowered At 7 Japanese Banks

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Daiwa Bank Ltd., Sumitomo Bank Ltd. and five other big Japanese banks had their credit ratings cut by the Standard & Poor's Corporation, which said yesterday that most of these lenders faced mounting bad debts and "substantial" net losses. 
 Japan's worst recession in half a century has left its banks with trillions of yen of bad debt. Daiwa, Sumitomo and the other five -- Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd., Sakura Bank Ltd., Sanwa Bank Ltd. and Tokai Bank Ltd. -- all will have to set aside more money to cover the bad loans on their books, the New York-based credit rating company said. As a result, most will be left with net losses in the fiscal year ending March 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; DAIWA BANK LTD; SUMITOMO BANK LTD; DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD; INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD; SAKURA BANK LTD; SANWA BANK LTD; TOKAI BANK LTD DAIWA BANK LTD (94%); SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (93%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (91%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (72%); DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD (72%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; DAIWA BANK LTD; SUMITOMO BANK LTD; DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD; INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD; SAKURA BANK LTD; SANWA BANK LTD; TOKAI BANK LTD NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (66%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RECESSION (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



534 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: For Ambitious Entrepreneurs, All Europe Is Just One Nation

SERIES: The New Europe: Living Without Borders

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: THE CHUNNEL, England-France

 BODY:
Palm Pilot in one hand, cellular phone in the other, Jean-Marc Routiers, 26, was juggling business calls halfway between London and Paris. When his phone went dead as the high-speed Eurostar train pulled into the underwater tunnel that links England to the Continent, the London-based French banker loosened his Italian silk tie and introduced himself.
"I definitely describe myself as a European," he said in the fluent English he perfected working at an Australian bank. "I may get sentimental when they play the Marseillaise, but for all the practical things, I see myself as a citizen of Europe. I like the life style in France, but I don't make my living there." 
 The year 1999 is the official start-up date of the euro, the common European currency that will unite 11 countries monetarily. But throughout Europe, a different kind of integration has already taken root.
Mr. Routiers, who was spending a day in Paris to meet with his bank's French clients, is at the vanguard of a new generation of Europeans who do not have to brace themselves for a shock in the new year. Mobile, fluent in several languages and aggressively non-nationalistic, they are already living the kind of borderless, cosmopolitan existence that the single European currency is supposed to advance.
They do not share their parents' memories of World War II or their parents' sense of national identity.
"People worry when they hear talk of a common European defense policy because it suggests that at the end of the day, we have one government," said Kleon Papadopoulos, a Greek banker based in London. "Countries are afraid to lose their sovereignty, but I don't see it as a bad thing. If a government is good, stable and efficient, who cares if it is based in Berlin or Athens?"
Mr. Papadopoulos, 36, who studied business in the United States and Britain, could serve as a model for the new Europeans. He works for a Swiss bank in London, speaks Greek, English and French, and in the past year has traveled, among other places, to Belgium, the United States, Cuba, Switzerland and Italy.
Like hundreds of thousands of other Europeans, he chose London -- and its busy financial markets -- as the best place to work.
He said he does not feel like he lives in England. He lives in London, the clubhouse of financial Europe. And membership has its privileges. Mr. Papadopoulos lives in the fashionable Knightsbridge area, drives a Porsche he bought in Brussels and works out at the fashionable gym of the Carleton Towers.
"I went to the London School of Economics in 1984, and the only other 'foreigners' I met were from the Middle East," he says. "Now friends and co-workers are Italian, French, Greek, Spanish, German, even Russian. You feel it everywhere. The streets are jammed with foreigners. Not tourists -- people who live and work here."
Baby boomers in Europe often describe themselves as the 1968 generation, weaned on the protest and social turmoil that convulsed European societies 30 years ago. Less dramatic but equally significant was a 1968 law guaranteeing freedom of movement within what were then the six countries of the Common Market. A Frenchman could work in Holland, an Italian could work in Germany without a permit.
Back then some economists dourly predicted huge migrations, particularly of unskilled laborers moving from southern countries to the more prosperous north. Actually, as huge industries like steel shrank in the 1970's and 80's, so did the job opportunities for working-class Europeans.
There are 15 countries within what is now the European Union, but only a small percentage of their citizens have moved to other countries, according to estimates prepared by Eurostat. Those who do mostly find jobs in the service industry as waiters, maids or garbage collectors. There are still legal barriers preventing most doctors, lawyers and academics from finding work in other countries.
So far the European Union has been most profitably put to use by white-collar business executives who eagerly followed career opportunities across national borders, time zones and language barriers.
Twenty-five years ago that kind of mobility was the preserve of a far smaller elite, the top executives of major companies or multinational corporations. Technology, from high-speed trains to the ever-evolving apparatus of business -- lap-top computers, cell phones, fax machines -- has made European mobility accessible to mid-level managers, young entrepreneurs and even students.
Cable television, which allows Germans to watch Italian game shows or Swedes to watch French news programs, has spread the Zeitgeist to the masses.
 
Italians Know Chirac; Kohl Is a Familiar Face
This year Superga, an Italian brand of sports clothes and shoes, opened a major advertising campaign with a series of magazine ads that show fashionable young people saucily cavorting with European leaders -- a leggy young woman pushes her bicycle up the steps of the Elysee Palace to greet President Jacques Chirac, a young man playfully sticks his tongue out the window of the plane of the former German chancellor, Helmut Kohl.
"This kind of ad would not have been possible 5 or 10 years ago," Aldo Cernuto, executive creative director of the Milan office of Pirella Gottsche Lowe, an international advertising agency. "Now European unification is on the TV all the time; it has seeped into people's unconscious. Even people who do not care about politics recognize the faces of a Tony Blair or Jacques Chirac. Ten years ago, very few people did."
According to the European Union, Britain has twice as many E.U. citizens as France, but it is not the country with the highest concentration of residents from other European countries. According to estimates based on surveys prepared by Eurostat, nearly a third of the residents of tiny Luxembourg, which has low unemployment and a high standard of living, are from other European countries. Belgium, which has the European Commission and NATO headquarters, is second, with 5.4 percent.
Paradoxically perhaps, Britain, the one major European nation that has held off from joining the euro, is widely viewed as the nerve center of the new cosmopolitanism, the headquarters for the New Europeans -- bankers and business executives drawn by London's financial district, a more flexible bureaucracy and the universality of the English language.
Perhaps just as surprisingly, London also serves as an example of another less obvious aspect of European cosmopolitanism -- the breakdown of certain social barriers.
Studying abroad was once a privilege reserved to the sons and daughters of Europe's elite. Now the European Union has a 12-year-old scholarship program, called Socrates-Erasmus, that this year allowed 200,000 European university students -- 5 percent of the E.U.'s entire university population -- to study in other countries within the Union for up to a year, free.
In the last 20 years, business schools in Europe have multiplied, and most offer American-style M.B.A. programs that teach an American approach to business. This too has allowed a measure of meritocracy to creep into European business.
"Jurgen Schrempp, the head of Daimler, started as a car mechanic," noted Stephen Szabo, a professor of European Affairs at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington. "That would have been unthinkable in Germany 20 years ago."
Social mobility, moreover, is fueled by movement. When people transfer to another country, they find it easier to shed the psychological or cultural trappings of home.
"I could never have the kind of job I have had I stayed in Paris," Mr. Routier explained. "France is still very hierarchical: bosses want to know where you went to school, what your father does. In London, none of that matters as long as you make money."
Many Britons still view their country as weighed down by heavy class distinctions.
For example Tony Smith, 36, the editor of several Portuguese magazines in Lisbon, seized an opportunity to study in Vienna 14 years ago, and never looked back.
He has lived all over Europe, and is fluent in Portuguese, Spanish, German, French and Serbo-Croatian. His father, a car mechanic, had not traveled out of Britain until 1992. Mr. Smith said he could never have succeeded as well had he stayed home. "I didn't go to public schools or Oxbridge," he explained. "I'm not saying it's impossible, but it would have been much more difficult in England."
Yet continental Europeans who flock to London find themselves bypassing English society and joining a cosmopolitan world where birth and breeding do not matter as much.
Ildiko Iliffe, 30, chose to work in London to escape the sexism she encountered on the continent. Mrs. Iliffe, who is Hungarian, speaks fluent English, German, French and Italian, and met her Canadian husband, Roger Iliffe, 30, while both were attending the University of Bocconi business school in Milan in 1995.
Like his wife, Mr. Iliffe speaks four languages and has lived and traveled all over the world. She works on the Eastern European desk of an British bank; he works for a major international consulting firm.
Originally they planned to work in Italy, but Mrs. Iliffe said the prevailing attitude toward working women there made it impossible for her to find as good a job.
"I went to job interviews at Italian banks and they only asked me about my husband's job," she said with a grimace. "And they made it clear that they were afraid I would get pregnant and ask for maternity leave."
 
Even the Cell Phones Need to Use 3 Languages
Philippe Haspeslagh, 48, a professor at Insead, the prestigious international business school in Fontainebleau, outside Paris, called Mrs. Iliffe's choices cherry-picking -- choosing the best deal for herself. As he put it, "If they cannot find what they want in one country, they can pick up and seek it elsewhere."
Twenty-five years ago, Mr. Haspeslagh was a pioneer when he did the same thing. A Belgian who studied business at Harvard, he lives and teaches in France and does consulting work all over Europe, from Sweden to the Czech Republic. The message on his cell phone is in three languages -- French, Flemish and English. His students, a generation behind him, see nothing exceptional in his transnationalism.
These Europeans form an advance guard that is still relatively small in numbers, but experts say they carry a disproportionate influence on their societies.
"In Germany, for example, it is the business people who are pushing ahead with change and pulling politicians along behind them kicking and screaming," Professor Szabo said. "They are looking at a larger market and feel the competitive pressures of globalization. Politicians are responding to a domestic constituency; they are answering to an international one."
 
The New Europe
Later articles will report on other aspects of Europe and its conversion to a new currency, the euro.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roger and Ildiko Iliffe -- London-based consultant from Canada and banker from Hungary, both 30. The couple work in London to escape sexism on the Continent, she says. "I went to job interviews at Italian banks and they only asked me about my husband's job." (Carlos Lopez-Barillas for The New York Times); Kleon Papadopoulos -- Greek banker, 36, based in London. "Countries are afraid to lose their sovereignty, but I don't see it as a bad thing. If a government is good, who cares if it is based in Berlin or Athens?" (Carlos Lopez-Barillas for The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

TICKER: PALM (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (93%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (99%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION PALM INC (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; LONDON (ENG); GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (93%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (99%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ENTREPRENEURSHIP; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EURO (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (79%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (57%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA JEAN-MARC ROUTIERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998



535 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: America Flunks Civics

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe is the author, most recently, of "One Nation, After All."

DATELINE: BROOKLINE, Mass.

 BODY:
The impeachment of their President was not exactly the Christmas present most Americans expected (or wanted) this year. This is the time of year when we sing of peace and harmony, not of discord and strife. The rancorous ugliness of our public life seemed even uglier in contrast to the holiday spirit of our private lives.
President Clinton and his Republican critics in the House of Representatives seemed to inhabit two different moral worlds. Despite their disagreements, however, they did have one thing in common: both went out of their way to try to destroy the institutions that had been sustaining them. 
 Mr. Clinton has so disgraced the Presidency that he was unable to make his recent public statements from the Oval Office, because that is where his adulterous affair was carried on. But the rush to judgment of the House Republicans -- who showed so little respect for the Constitution, bipartisanship and the traditions of the House itself -- demonstrated that Mr. Clinton had no monopoly on tearing down institutions.
The lust for sex may not be the same as the lust for vengeance, but both corroded the chance to leave behind stronger institutions. These sorry events should remind us why institutions are important in the first place. To live in a world in which institutions matter is to accept that we often do best if we subordinate our immediate instincts for the sake of getting along with those whose cooperation we may require someday. That very restraint is what Washington lost altogether in the last year.
Alas, there are signs that ordinary Americans are equally impatient with any limitation on their right to do as they please. Consequently many of their social institutions -- like the family, the public schools and political parties -- have been damaged as much as the Presidency or Congress.
That is why sentiment is growing, for example, for private schools or even home schooling. And why professional athletes insist on free agency. And why it sometimes seems Americans will not be satisfied until everyone has his or her personal religious denomination.
Institutions show signs of decay for reasons as various as the culture of divorce and the decline of union membership.
Political parties no longer raise money for the candidates they choose; candidates choose themselves, raise their own money and then consider whether to turn a small portion over to their parties. Even businesses have lost their institutional character, as top executives are rewarded for hollowing out the insides of their companies or shipping their production abroad.
Americans, who admire freedom in the economic realm, have come to expect it from their institutions, too. Why should they do something just because their spouses, union leaders, school administrators, political bosses or corporate employers tell them to?
Yet life in the absence of strong institutions promotes its own form of discontent. Consider the case of political parties. Weaker parties were supposed to produce stronger citizens. Put an end to the smoke-filled rooms, the thinking went, and replace them with primaries in which many more voters could participate.
Instead, there is less participation than ever. True, the old parties were often dictatorial. But what has replaced them is anything but democratic. Candidates no longer visit schools and workplaces. Instead they deliver their messages from television studios and auction themselves to the highest bidders. The voters, fed up with the whole process, stay home and tell pundits how much they hate politics and the journalists who report it.
The same cycle of discontent is occurring all across the institutional spectrum. Viewers respond to the glut of television stations by switching between them so rapidly that they are effectively watching none of them. Parents demand that schools cater to their children in a certain way, then threaten to take them out of the public system, thereby undermining the ability of those schools to exist.
Lost in the rush to decertify our institutions is the recognition that we sometimes have to team up with others to get what we want and that institutions can expand as well as contract our freedom to live as we choose.
This explains why there are signs, however faint, that institutions are beginning to recover their strength. Divorce rates have started to decline, labor associations are beginning to awaken, and business consultants now speak of the "loyalty effects" generated by long-term employees and faithful customers. Even in politics, expensive campaigns larded with negative advertisements no longer appear to work, making the return of locally rooted parties a possibility, at least.
Yet at the very time we are starting to rebuild the institutions around us, our leaders have gone out of their way to tarnish the institutions around them.
This should remind Americans that they cannot look to Washington for much help. Institutions can be helped indirectly by government. Efforts by churches to reduce the influence of gangs, for example, probably would do better with some government money than with none. But institutions must spring from the energy of those working within them.
In addition, the partisanship that pollutes Washington should be a warning to us about the danger of supporting only those institutions that suit our own ideologies.
Conservatives want to strengthen the family and churches -- institutions they like -- but not unions. Liberals talk about the need for stronger unions or communities but are reluctant to endorse traditional families or to rely on religious institutions to further public objectives. We must recognize that for any institution to thrive, all legitimate institutions must thrive. Commitments in one area teach respect for commitments in other areas. Bad families make bad citizens -- and vice versa.
Tocqueville observed that a proliferation of associations made democracy work in 19th-century America. Influenced by him, we assumed that institutions would flourish naturally. In recent years, as the counterculture joined forces with the corporate culture to celebrate choice at the expense of institutional loyalty, we learned the hard way how fragile social institutions can be.
We cannot go back to a time when institutions stifled initiative and foreclosed possibility. But surely we can find a way to recognize that sometimes the integrity of our institutions requires that we pause and reflect on our choices.
As we do, we may even teach our leaders a lesson.

GRAPHIC: Photo. (Scott Stowell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); ETHICS (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); RELIGION (61%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WOLFE, ALAN; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



536 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Chase-American Express Dispute Settled

BYLINE: By Dow Jones 

 BODY:
The Chase Manhattan Corporation said yesterday that it had reached a settlement with the American Express Company, two days after the charge card giant filed a lawsuit in Federal court in New York contending that Chase used false advertising and deceptive acts in marketing its platinum credit cards.
The terms of the settlement are confidential and no further information is available, a Chase spokesman, Ken Herz, said. 
 Chase, the nation's third-largest bank, was championing a study by J. D. Power & Associates in its advertisements, which ranked its platinum cards and its Wal-Mart Mastercard highest in credit card customer satisfaction in their respective categories.
American Express contended that such a claim was misleading because it said the study did not include its cards, nor did it attempt to compare customer satisfaction levels among American Express card holders and Chase card holders.
In its suit, American Express sought a court order to stop Chase's ads, as well to keep the bank from starting a direct-mail campaign also mentioning the J. D. Power study. The mailing would have reached as many as 19 million prospective credit card customers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (96%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ADVERTISING; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CREDIT CARDS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



537 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: The Transportation Giant Up North;
Bombardier Rises, With Some Help From Friends in Ottawa

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MONTREAL

 BODY:
Pierre Beaudoin won't deny it: These days, he often finds himself staring out his office window, scanning the skies for snow clouds.
That may not come as a surprise. He is, after all, president of the recreational products division of Bombardier Inc., whose Ski Doo snowmobiles have been in a sales slump for two years. But other executives at the company's headquarters here are not nearly as sensitive to the vagaries of the weather. 
 For Bombardier has come a long way from its beginnings in 1942 as a Canadian manufacturer of snowgoing equipment which expanded into snowmobiles in the early 1960's. The company has grown into a global transportation giant whose revenues are increasing at a rate of 20 percent a year. It builds and sells subway cars, trains, airplanes and other motorized vehicles to clients that range from the New York City subway system to Shandong Province in China. Snowmobiles are now just a small part of the company's $6.1 billion annual business.
Quietly, but aggressively, Bombardier (pronounced bohn-BAR-dee-ay) has built itself up. The company has succeeded in part by trying to be like a local company when it enters new markets and regions, usually by taking over a government-owned business or entering into a partnership with the local government.
Yet Bombardier is still very much a Canadian institution with close ties to the Government in Ottawa, which has helped the company more than once. Cozying up to government officials, of course, is not uncommon in aerospace and mass transportation, businesses in which the customers are often government agencies and the capital outlays are enormous. And Ottawa officials know that Bombardier, like many other successful Canadian businesses, needs to look beyond its limited domestic market and focus on exports. Roughly 88 percent of the company's revenue comes from abroad.
Still, Bombardier's close relationship with the Canadian Government has at times drawn fire from competitors, who complain that Ottawa unfairly props up the company.
"It's a deliberate and determined policy by the Government of Canada to support the aerospace industry by whatever means available," said Valdemar Leao, director of the economic department in the Foreign Ministry of Brazil, the home of Embraer, Bombardier's chief rival in the regional-jet market. "And if you talk about aerospace in Canada, you have to talk about Bombardier."
In response, Bombardier acknowledged that it had received assistance from the Canadian Government, but it said that such help consisted of repayable loans, not subsidies, available to other manufacturers and not specially set aside for Bombardier.
Still, for a company that has not sought to draw much attention to itself, such criticism has often thrown a spotlight on Bombardier both at home and in the many foreign countries where it does business. Consider these cases:
*One of the company's first major contracts in the United States -- a 1982 deal to build 825 cars for the New York City subway system -- caused an uproar because the Canadian Government had provided $563 million of low-interest loans to finance the bid. The United States Commerce Department ruled that Canada had illegally subsidized the sale and was prepared to fine the Metropolitan Transportation Authority of New York $91.2 million -- the estimated amount of the illegal subsidy. The fine was withdrawn when the M.T.A. agreed not to buy foreign-made subway cars again for three years.
*When Bombardier bought the de Havilland division of the Boeing Company in 1992, the Province of Ontario helped by acquiring 49 percent of de Havilland's equity. Last year, Ontario agreed to sell its share to Bombardier for $34 million, but Government opposition leaders and Bombardier's rivals complained about the sweetheart terms of the deal -- the purchase price was payable over 15 years at an interest rate of 7 percent.
*In a complaint now before the World Trade Organization, Brazil accuses Canada of providing Bombardier with millions of dollars in loans that are actually prohibited export subsidies. That complaint followed one Canada filed on behalf of Bombardier, accusing Brazil of providing subsidies that let Embraer use export financing to discount the price of its jets by $2.5 million each, stealing business from Bombardier.
*When Bombardier's bid to build 252 subway cars for a new line in Mexico City was rejected last year, Canada's Ambassador to Mexico, Marc Perron, undiplomatically accused the municipal government of chicanery. He later resigned. Prime Minister Jean Chretien stepped in and wrote to the Mexican President, Ernesto Zedillo, asking him to investigate Bombardier's rejection. The competing bid was also eventually rejected. A new competition is to be held, but no selection will be made until 2000.
Laurent Beaudoin, Bombardier's 60-year-old chairman -- and father of the 36-year-old Pierre -- does enjoy a close relationship with Mr. Chretien, who is also a Quebecer. And over all, Yves Allaire, Bombardier's vice president for strategic planning, described Bombardier's relations with the Canadian Government as "good to moderate."
But are they good enough to ask for favors?
"Well, no, not favors in the sense of anything that is not part of standard programs," Mr. Allaire said. "The only favor, quote unquote, we asked is that they go to the W.T.O. to fight off Brazil, and it took us two years to get Canada to go. So that could be considered a favor, but if it's a favor, it took a long time coming."
In its submission to the W.T.O. on Bombardier's behalf, the Canadian Government stated that "none of the impugned programs, activities or transactions is a prohibited export subsidy."
Controversy may be difficult to avoid for a company that has a reputation for being a gutsy organization willing to take big risks.
It has enjoyed particular success in aerospace, a business that Bombardier timidly entered in 1986 with the purchase of Canadair, a wobbly aviation company, from the Canadian Government. Now, Bombardier is the third-largest civilian aerospace company in the world behind Boeing and the European consortium, Airbus Industrie.
This year, Bombardier has received a total of 166 orders for its small regional jetliners -- an aircraft niche it practically invented.
 On Monday, Bombardier won an additional $580 million order for 25 70-seat jets from Horizon Air, a unit of Alaska Air Group.
It builds Learjets, luxury private jets, and even a workhorse water bomber used by forest-firefighting services in several countries.
Bombardier is also one of the world's largest rail and subway contractors. Anyone who regularly rides the New York City subway has sat in a car assembled by Bombardier at its plant in Plattsburgh, N.Y., and the company is at work on another 680 subway cars worth more than $900 million. Bombardier will also run and maintain the new light-rail link planned for Kennedy International Airport, the 150-mile-an-hour trains that will run on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor and as many as 500 intercity rail cars for China's Ministry of Railways. Earlier this month, it signed a $1.8 billion contract to build locomotives and train coaches for the Virgin Rail Group in Britain.
While snowmobiles and Sea-Doo jet skis have been reduced to just a small part of Bombardier, until recently they accounted for approximately a third of the company's profit. In the latest monthly report, though, recreational vehicles showed no profit at all. But there was a flood of orders in the aerospace and rail divisions. For the third quarter, the company, which has 47,000 employees, earned $81 million.
"Bombardier is almost like a portfolio," said Ronald J. Schwarz, executive director of equity research at CIBC Wood Gundy, an investment bank in Toronto. "At any given time, one segment may not be performing as it should, but it will be offset by a better-than-expected performance by another segment of the portfolio."
Laurent Beaudoin (pronounced bow-DWAN) has said that a key to Bombardier's success is the slow pace of its diversification, and its willingness to walk away from opportunities that are not as promising as they first appeared.
For instance, the company dropped its original bids for Canadair, Learjet and de Havilland, and agreed to complete the deals only when its first offers, or close to them, were accepted.
Bombardier has also shown an ability to take initiative in the face of dashed opportunities. When energy prices soared in 1973 after the Arab oil embargo, snowmobile sales fell by half. As one response, Bombardier made a bid to build cars for the new Montreal subway; it won, and thus entered the mass-transit business.
And when snowmobile dealers had trouble getting financing from banks, Bombardier started its own capital and financing group.
Bombardier often buys the advanced technology it wants, usually at bargain rates. For example, Bombardier's 1986 purchase of the financially troubled Canadair gave it access to the technology behind the small Challenger corporate jet.
Soon after, the company invested an amount equivalent to half its market capitalization on the design of a 50-seat regional jet that just about everyone else thought the industry did not need.
Questions about the design of the jet's wing and how it is affected by ice have been raised recently by an official of the United States Transportation Safety Board. Bombardier officials say that the wing design has been proved safe in 18 years of service.
The company is now developing a new, larger regional jet. In a cavernous building near Dorval International Airport outside Montreal, crews of workers crawl over the enormous wing assembly of the new Canadair 700, a 70-seat regional jet. The aircraft was designed at a total cost of $431 million, including a Government development loan of $63 million. And Bombardier is already working on plans for a 90-seat jet that would bring it closer to direct competition with the smallest Boeing and Airbus airliners.
In addition to help from Canada, Bombardier has also received a hand from the Mexican Government. The company bought the decrepit Concarril locomotive works in central Mexico from the Government almost seven years ago, with the expectation that the Government would assure that Bombardier had enough contracts to keep the plant busy.
Early on, the company won a contract to renovate cars for the Mexico City subway, and to build some new ones. It is also assembling 275 locomotives under subcontract to the General Motors Corporation.
The locomotives are typical of the way Bombardier works in an increasingly integrated North American market. Their electrical systems are made in Ontario. Their powerful motors come from LaGrange, Ill. All the parts are assembled for G.M.'s locomotive division by Mexican workers employed by Bombardier, and some are sold to the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway, which uses the locomotives to haul milelong coal trains through the American West.
But Bombardier's sprawling plant is still working at only 60 percent of capacity, in part because the company did not get the contract for the new Mexico City subway line.
Robert E. Brown, the president of the aerospace unit who will replace Mr. Beaudoin as Bombardier's president and chief executive as of Feb. 1, said complaints that the company succeeded only because it rubbed elbows with government officials were off base.
"We're not afraid of competition," Mr. Brown said, "but it should be on a fair basis."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From its early success with Ski-Doo snowmobiles, Bombardier has become the world's third-largest maker of commercial aircraft. Above, a jet being assembled at the company's plant in Dorval, Quebec. (Robert Galbraith for The New York Times)(pg. C1); At Bombardier's factory in Ciudad Sahagun, in the Mexican state of Hidalgo, workers installed windows on a subway car. The company's rail-transport division has 13,000 employees in North America and Europe. (Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)(pg. C3)
 
Graph: "Planes, Trains and Snowmobiles
From its origins in Canada as a maker of snowgoing equipment, Bombardier has grown into a multinational manufacturer of vehicles of all types. It has production facilities around the world, many acquired by buying local companies. Graph tracks revenue of its aviation/aerospace, transportation, recreational products, and business/financial services units, from 1993 through 1997. It also provides information regarding the units' number of employees, products/services, and production plant locations. (Source: Bombardier Inc.)(pg. C1)
 
REVENUE
(Small
amounts of
overlap)
 
AVIATION/
AEROSPACE
 
TRANS-
PORTATION
 
RECREATIONAL
PRODUCTS
 
BUSINESS/
FINANCIAL
SERVICES
 
EMPLOYEES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (94%); ERJ (NYSE) (81%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); SHANDONG, CHINA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOMBARDIER INC BOMBARDIER INC (94%); EMBRAER SA (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOMBARDIER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); SHANDONG, CHINA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; TRANSPORTATION; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; RAILROADS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SNOWMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SNOWMOBILE MFG (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); SNOWMOBILING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (63%); AIRLINES (60%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



538 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
4th Drop in Treasury Prices Puts Yields at One-Month High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell for a fourth session yesterday, driving yields to one-month highs after economic reports pointed to a buoyant economy, further reducing expectations of another cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
"There's disappointment relative to thoughts of further Fed easings," and that is weighing on Treasuries, said Ned Riley, chief investment officer at the BankBoston Corporation. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 18/36, to 100 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.21 percent, from 5.18 percent on Wednesday, setting a one-month high.
Trading volume was the second lightest this year, with just $17.2 billion of bills, notes and bonds changing hands through major brokers, according to GovPx Inc., a bond pricing service. The lightest trading day was Nov. 27, the day after Thanksgiving. Trading ended an hour early yesterday at 2 P.M. in New York. Markets will be closed all day today.
Bonds fell yesterday after the Government said personal income rose five-tenths of a percent last month, more than the four-tenths of a percent increase expected by analysts. A separate report showed first-time jobless claims fell to the lowest level in almost 18 months last week.
Taken together, the reports added to evidence suggesting strength in the economy that may spur spending and keep the economy's eight-year expansion on track. That leaves little reason for a fourth Fed rate cut any time soon after three quarter-point cuts in the last three months and may limit gains in Treasuries, traders said.
"The data we've received have shown more buoyancy and resiliency and that's causing a reconsideration of the interest rate outlook," said William Sullivan, economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company.
Bonds fell on Wednesday after the Fed suggested it was not leaning toward a cut in interest rates and as reports on growth and orders for big ticket goods pointed to strength in the economy.
Also weighing on bonds were concerns Japanese investors might sell Treasuries to offset losses in other securities. The Japanese Government said earlier this week that it would stop buying its own long-term debt in the secondary market, which sent Japanese yields soaring and raised concerns it will cut its purchases of Treasuries as well.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average yields for 20-general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly, since September. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (81%); IAP (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (81%); ICAP PLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (56%); THANKSGIVING (53%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (52%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



539 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: CS First Boston Sues Indonesian Company

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
CS First Boston is suing P.T. Polysindo Eka Perkasa for repayment of $235 million of bonds issued by the troubled Indonesian polyester maker.
CS First Boston, a unit of Switzerland's Credit Suisse Group, filed its suit yesterday in United States District Court in New York. The bank contends that it was entitled to immediate repayment on its $235 million of Polysindo bonds because the company skipped interest payments. It is also asking the court to prohibit Polysindo from doing anything to avoid paying back the bonds, plus interest. 
 Polysindo is being battered by Indonesia's first recession in 30 years and a decline of as much as 80 percent in the rupiah's value against the United States dollar. The rupiah's collapse makes it difficult for Indonesian companies to repay their foreign-currency debts, as the cost of repayment in rupiah terms has surged more than three-fold.

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (93%); CS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (93%); SIC2221 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, MANMADE FIBER & SILK (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CS FIRST BOSTON; PT POLYSINDO EKA PERKASA PT POLYSINDO EKA PERKASA (93%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CS FIRST BOSTON; PT POLYSINDO EKA PERKASA

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (72%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; CORPORATE BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BOND ISSUES (88%); CORPORATE BONDS (88%); US DOLLAR (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); TRENDS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



540 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: By Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
FRANCE: BRIBERY INQUIRY ENDS
Investigating judges have completed their inquiry into Roland Dumas, head of France's highest administrative tribunal, the Constitutional Council, and his relationship while he was Foreign Minister with Christine Deviers-Joncour, a lobbyist for Elf-Aquitaine, the oil company. The two, as well as four former Elf Aquitaine executives, have three weeks to respond before prosecutors decide whether to try them on bribery charges.
 Craig R. Whitney (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: CHARLES HEARS ABOUT MARIJUANA
Prince Charles, left, renewed a debate about marijuana when he asked a woman with multiple sclerosis whether she had tried using it to relieve pain. British newspapers reported that Charles, visiting a day-care center in Cheltenham, had told the woman, Karen Drake, that he had heard that marijuana could benefit people with multiple sclerosis. (Reuters)
 
RUSSIA: AUSTERITY BUDGET GAINS
The Communist-dominated lower house of Parliament voted, 303 to 65, for initial approval for an austerity budget for 1999, after Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov had threatened to resign if the draft failed. The coffers are so bare that the budget calls for Government spending of $29 billion and revenues of $24 billion. The United States Government spends $30 billion a week. (AP)
 
RUSSIA: 5 SUBCRITICAL A-TESTS
Russia conducted five subcritical nuclear tests at an Arctic testing range in the autumn, Deputy Nuclear Energy Minister Lev Ryabev said, contradicting previous denials. The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty does not prohibit such tests, because the amount of plutonium used cannot create a nuclear explosion. But critics say that even limited tests could encourage full-scale tests. (AP)
 
BOSNIA: MILITARY AND SCALE OF AID
The military consumes just about the total yearly aid to the country, said Ambassador Robert Barry of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Mr. Barry gave no specific figures. But Bosnia is receiving a $5.1 billion reconstruction package that international donors have agreed for the period from 1996 to 1999. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
CYPRUS: TALKS ON USING RUSSIAN MISSILES
President Glafcos Clerides will go to Athens next week for talks on whether to deploy a Russian-built missile system that Turkey has pledged to prevent on the divided island. Cyprus was said to be considering putting the S-300 missile systems temporarily on Crete, a move that Greece also reportedly favors. (Reuters)
 
ISRAEL: BETHLEHEM SERVICE ON THE WEB
The International Christian Embassy, an evangelical Protestant group in Jerusalem, introduced its Virtual Holyland Web site in time for a Christmas service today from Shepherd's Field near Bethlehem. The page is www.virtualholyland.com. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: MIDNIGHT MASS CANCELED
The Roman Catholic Cathedral in Jakarta scrapped midnight Christmas Mass because of security fears after violence against the minority Christian population, an official at the Vatican Embassy said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
JAPAN: TAX REMAINS STABLE
The consumption tax will not rise despite an advisory panel's warning that an increase is inevitable, Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiromu Nonaka said. Former Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto was widely blamed for pushing the world's second largest economy into recession by raising the tax last year, from 3 to 5 percent. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CHINA: 11 DRUG DEALERS EXECUTED
The special economic zone of Shenzhen executed 11 drug dealers, a local newspaper reported. The Intermediate People's Court sentenced 17 people for drug-related crimes, and the 11 given the death penalty were taken to be shot. Shenzhen, bordering Hong Kong, is a conduit for heroin refined in Yunnan. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
SIERRA LEONE: LIBERIANS ASSIST SECURITY
About 1,000 soldiers flew from Liberia to augment a West African intervention force around Freetown. The 5,000-member force is strengthening security after rebel attacks near the capital, United Nations observers said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ZAMBIA: REGIONAL MEETING POSTPONED
A regional meeting in Lusaka on a cease-fire in Congo has been postponed because of the holiday season, an aide to President Frederick Chiluba said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: INQUIRY ON PRI CAMPAIGN SPENDING
Electoral authorities named a commission to investigate accusations of illegal spending in the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, campaign of 1994 that led to President Ernesto Zedillo's election. (NYT) Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map of China shows location of Shenzhen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CYPRUS (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); GREECE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); ARCTIC (56%); 

STATE: GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: ELF AQUITAINE SA (58%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%); INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CYPRUS (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); GREECE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); ARCTIC (56%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CANNABIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (83%); RELIGION (83%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); CHRISTMAS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



541 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Sends Potential Dissidents a Message: Don't

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 24

 BODY:
Just in case anyone here missed the point, the state-run news media have given rare publicity to the severe sentences dealt to three prominent leaders of an alternative political party.
Most Chinese had never heard of the imprisoned men -- Xu Wenli, Qin Yongmin and Wang Youcai -- and for months the local news media had totally ignored their efforts to form a China Democracy Party. 
 But after the sentences this week, the press, sending a clear message to any would-be dissidents, reported that the three criminals who had threatened national security by promoting an illegal party had been given sentences of 11 to 13 years.
After a draining week of shock and despair, those who worked openly to promote the party, by some estimates 200, are pondering the next steps for the movement and for themselves. At least one other organizer was sent to a labor camp. Most remain free, if under surveillance.
To a large degree the intimidation has worked. In Wuhan, where about 30 people had established an important branch of the party, activities have been suspended, said Chen Zhonghe, a party leader who spoke by telephone.
"There were many people here who sympathized with our goals and might eventually have joined our party," Mr. Chen, 50, said. "But now, after these trials, it's impossible. Most people wouldn't dare to get involved."
Certainly the authorities have made it clear that they intend to shut down the party, which had become the focal point of the democracy movement.
Still, experience suggests that advocates will soon find new ways to challenge the system.
As recently as January 1997, after long prison sentences had been given to two prominent dissidents, Wei Jingsheng and Wang Dan, the United States State Department declared in a report that no active dissidents remained in the country.
For most of last year it seemed that way. But toward the end of the year, as Mr. Wei was sent to exile and Chinese-American relations warmed, advocates sensed a slight easing of controls.
People like Mr. Xu, 55, and Mr. Qin, 44, both of whom had already served long prison terms, began faxing statements to colleagues and the foreign press.
This year, about the time that President Clinton visited China in June, Wang Youcai founded the party. Almost overnight, hundreds of people appeared who seemed willing to risk everything for the cause.
Even this week, as their senior colleagues were heading for prison, some party members spoke bravely about carrying on, even though they spoke on telephone lines that were almost certainly monitored.
In Beijing on Wednesday a leading organizer, Gao Hongming, said: "The China Democracy Party will continue working for a free democratic China. And it will do so in a way that is public, rational and nonviolent."
Mr. Gao, 48, recently spent two years in labor camps for distributing leaflets critical of the 1989 military crackdown on demonstrators in Tiananmen Square. The trials this week, he acknowledged, had "greatly slowed the development of a truly national party."
But, he added, "because of the achievements of the last six months, the mechanisms for its establishment are in place."
For now, Mr. Gao said, advocates should work quietly to spread democratic ideas at the local level. "The Government will feel it can keep an eye on us," Mr. Gao said. "I don't think they'll throw us all in jail."
The crackdown has had the opposite of the intended effects on at least one person, Jia Wei, 36, a former high-school teacher in the northeastern city of Changchun. Mr. Jia said he had believed in democracy since he was a teen-ager. But he never became involved in organizing, preferring to use essays and lectures and the occasional public letter to leaders, although he had recently been intrigued enough by the democracy party to meet Mr. Xu here.
"This terrible repression has been a massive shock to my spirit," he said of the sentences this week. "Now I feel the work of Xu Wenli has to be continued for the good of society.
"Direct political activities may be necessary. And now I have to contemplate the possibility of spending time in prison."
One big unknown for the movement is to what extent younger people may become involved. Notably, virtually all those who joined the Democracy Party were veterans of the Democracy Wall movement of the late 1970's or the 1989 demonstrations.
Certainly many students and other young people are skeptical about the Communist Party. But few have shown a willingness to risk their futures.
That could change in the event of prolonged economic hardship or other social traumas. That fact helps explain why President Jiang Zemin in a speech released on Wednesday, his second hard-line speech on social stability in a week, warned against "infiltration by both domestic and foreign hostile forces."
"Any factors that could jeopardize our stability," Mr. Jiang said, "must be annihilated in the early stages."
The Government is especially sensitive about dissident activities because of growing unemployment and frequent protests by unpaid workers. The Communist Party's great nightmare is a joining of democracy and labor movements against it.
In another pointed reminder the official People's Daily carried new court instructions on Wednesday on how the revised criminal code will apply in prosecutions of illegal publications. Knowingly publishing or disseminating materials that incite splitting of the country or overthrow of the socialist system, the instructions said, will be tried as serious crimes, including subversion of state power.
On Sunday a man who tried to organize a pressure group for laid-off workers is to be tried in Henan province for endangering national security, according to the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in Hong Kong.
The coming year is seen as a touchy one, too, because of the 10th anniversary of the crushed Tiananmen Square demonstrations, as well as the 50th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic.
But the security apparatus needed no special reasons to quash the China Democracy Party.
Any threat to the supremacy of the Communist Party is, by definition, a threat to national security. That gave officials a neat way to explain why the recent trials did not violate the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which China has signed but not ratified. All three defendants were convicted of subversion.
China, of course, abides by the covenant stipulations on freedom of belief, speech, assembly and association, said a long commentary issued on Tuesday by the official New China News Agency.
But because the three convicted democracy advocates imperiled the state, the commentary continued, "it is logical that the Chinese judiciary bring such criminals before the law in order to protect the human rights of the Chinese people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHINA DEMOCRACY PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINA DEMOCRACY PARTY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



542 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE MARK FALLS. The dollar rose after a report on the Federal Reserve's November policy meeting signaled that the central bank would probably not cut interest rates soon. The dollar rose to 1.6840 marks from 1.6741.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the German mark to the dollar, since July 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES GERMAN MARK (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



543 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Saving Grows As Spending Slows Down

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
American consumers took a late-autumn pause last month from their recent relatively heavy levels of spending as incomes surged and personal savings grew for the first time in four months.
Jobless claims also fell last week to their lowest level in more than a year. Together with the recent performance of the stock market, which approaches the end of the year at near-record levels, those signs point to continued economic expansion, economists said. 
 Financial markets reacted positively to the news, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 15.96 points, to 9,217.99, in an abbreviated trading session. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange measured a mere 247 million shares, the lowest this year. Broader market benchmarks were mixed, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index falling slightly and the Russell 2000 index, a measure of smaller-company stocks, inching up.
Convinced that the Federal Reserve might be satisfied with the economy's progress after three cuts in interest rates this year, bond traders sent prices lower. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to 5.21 percent.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that personal income grew by five-tenths of 1 percent in November, while spending grew by one-tenth of a percent. That makes November the first month since July in which income growth surpassed spending growth.
The December holiday season is likely to have brought more spending by consumers, however, and perhaps a return to the negative rate of personal savings, which showed up this fall for the first time since the Great Depression.
"I would say that the overall trend is still toward spending and not toward savings, as it has been since the middle of 1997," said Kenneth Safian, the president of Safian Investment Research of White Plains.
Consumer spending is the main fuel of the domestic economy, but sharp increases in outlays can worry Wall Street that consumers will have to stop and let their incomes catch up with their bills. Mr. Safian said, however, that the current environment did not carry such ominous overtones.
"The trend to increased spending is not as severe as it was at other stock market peaks," he said.
Similarly, too much saving by individuals is seen by some economists as a precursor to recession. The Commerce Department said the savings rate, measured as a percentage of disposable personal income, measured one-tenth of a percent in November, compared with a negative two-tenths of a percent in October.
The slower growth in spending last month could be traced to two factors, financial analysts said. Purchases of new cars, which jumped in September and October after the settlement of a strike during the summer by General Motors workers, returned to more normal levels last month. And a spate of mild autumn weather held back spending on electricity and natural gas.
The Commerce Department also revised its estimate of personal expenditures for October; it now thinks that spending grew by seven-tenths of a percent rather than five-tenths of a percent as previously estimated.
Jobless claims also moved contrary to expectations, falling by 13,000 last week, to 287,000 claims. Economists had been expecting claims to rise by about 12,000, according to Bloomberg News. Last week's level of jobless claims was the lowest since late July 1997.
The strength of the labor market probably also contributed to the growth in income, but the gains were spread unevenly across industries, the Commerce Department reported. Wages and salaries were nearly flat, when compared with those of the previous month, in manufacturing and distribution companies. But service companies reported that they paid about 1 percent more in wages last month than in October.
Meanwhile, the income of farm owners rose by more than 10 percent last month despite continued declines in commodity prices as subsidy payments by Government programs grew.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income" tracks total personal income, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from June 1997 through November 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SAFIAN INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (60%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



544 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: The Hurricane Is History, but for Battered Honduras the Agony Lingers

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras

 BODY:
The bulldozers have reopened the highway below her house in the village of Balin, clearing away tons of earth that slid down the mountain during a hurricane in November, plowing under houses, gardens, animals and 17 human beings.
The growling machines have smoothed over the ugly gash in the earth and molded a new dirt road. Trucks rumble through Leila Marina Morales's life again, linking the country's interior to the sea, as they always did before. 
 But now there is a hole in the universe where her family once was.
"For me it seems as if everything is a dream, as if my family has gone on a trip and will return," Ms. Marina Morales, 27, a housewife, said, peering up at the sheered mountain that swallowed her mother and three sisters on Nov. 2. "But at the same time I must accept that they died."
Two months after the storm called Mitch mauled this hilly and poor country in late October, Hondurans like Miss Marina Morales are still trying to come to terms with the disaster and their losses, both personal and financial.
Hurricane Mitch was one of the region's worst natural disasters this century. It left several thousand dead and hundreds of thousands homeless, while crippling the economies of Honduras and Nicaragua. By some estimates, the storm caused at least $5.4 billion in damage to infrastructure and crops, international lending institutions say.
Both Nicaragua and Honduras were devastated by the storm, though Honduras bore the brunt, with nearly every part of the country affected. In Nicaragua the damage was concentrated in pockets.
Fearing a flood of immigrants or a new round of instability in Central America, the United States has pumped about $170 million in disaster relief into Honduras in the last seven weeks and has canceled about $40 million of Honduras's enormous debt. Nicaragua has received similar levels of aid.
Tons of food and medicine have been shipped in and ferried to remote villages, mostly by American military helicopters and cargo planes. More than 800 United States military engineers have helped open roads and build fords across rivers where dozens of bridges were washed away.
President Clinton has even announced he will delay deporting illegal Honduran immigrants to the United States. Yet many parts of Honduras -- one of this hemisphere's poorest countries before the storm -- still barely function and will need months more of aid.
Though some roads are passable, the country's tattered infrastructure can now be washed away by one hard rainfall, United States military officers here say, and it will take billions of dollars to repair the bridges and roads.
Thousands of people are still trying to dig out from under mud that buried riverside towns of hard-hit regions. Thousands of others are camping in makeshift tents or living in temporary shelters, relying on handouts from the United Nations and the Roman Catholic Church. Many towns still have no potable water and their sewerage systems have been destroyed.
"We still need to do more," the United States Housing Secretary, Andrew Cuomo, said on a visit this month to announce an aid package. "You had a country that was just struggling to get to their feet and this was a serious setback."
Even worse than the destruction of houses has been the loss of jobs. Uncounted thousands of farmers, factory workers and plantation hands have either been laid off or have lost their crops, poultry and livestock. Most say they have no way to make a living.
With the economic outlook dismal at best, many of the younger Hondurans who can obtain visas are already migrating to the United States in search of work. Others have decided to take the illegal route through Mexico.
"I have at least five friends who have gone to Mexico and are waiting there trying to get over the border into the United States," said Kevin Sarrios, 21, a cabdriver in San Pedro Sula.
Though Mr. Sarrios has decided to stay in Honduras despite the lack of jobs and tourists, his wife left just after the storm struck for a six-month stint as a domestic servant in Colorado, leaving him with their year-old baby.
Other Hondurans have fewer options. On the main highway outside the once-thriving town of La Lima, a banana-growing center in the Sula Valley in the north, hundreds of banana plantation workers and farmers are living in a squalid row of tents and shacks.
On a recent rainy afternoon, children with no shirts clutched themselves against the chill air. Many were suffering from respiratory illnesses and diarrhea.
Shivering in a light rain, Catarino Cortez Gomez, 35, reached into a pocket with his calloused hands and carefully pulled out a notice from his former employer, Turnbull Agroindustria Asociada, a banana grower, to show to a visitor.
Tracing the words with his index finger, Mr. Cortez explained that he had been laid off for at least four months because the storm destroyed the banana plantations. His two young sons huddled next to his legs.
"One has to live by the grace of God," he said, "because we don't have anything."
Like most of the refugees in this sad row on the highway, Mr. Cortez saw his small house sink into the mud when the floods came during the hurricane. The zinc roof was washed away and all his belongings were destroyed. He waded to higher ground with his sons on his back. He says he has no savings and no way to make money if the banana companies do not hire again. His family is living in a tent, eating beans and flour distributed by a Catholic charity. "We lost everything in that house," he said.
Inside La Lima, city workers with backhoes and bulldozers were working away at the tons of mud left by the floods. Nearly everyone in the town of 75,000 wore heavy rubber boots to wade through the thick ugly muck still covering all the streets. Here and there, homeowners struggled with shovels to clear mud out of their houses.
"Two months after the hurricane and we are still trying to the get the mud out," said Carlos Ramos, a 64-year-old contractor, leaning on a shovel in foul-smelling muck. "What's bothering us the most is all the sewage that's flowing into the streets."
German Henriquez, the municipal official in charge of public works, took a break from the cleanup efforts to tick off the town's woes. The floods washed away more than 175 houses, damaged 400 others and killed at least 12 people.
The waters destroyed four major bridges, damaged most of the roads and wrecked 80 percent of the sewers. Raw sewage now runs out into mud-filled streets in many neighborhoods. Though La Lima has received about $367,000 from the central Government to clean up, officials here estimate it will take about $44 million to repair the town's infrastructure.
At the same time, La Lima's major employers -- a subsidiary of the Chiquita Brands International and several smaller plantation owners -- have announced severe layoffs, and it will be at least a year before they rehire. About 700 families, many of them connected to the banana industry, are living in tents. "We are destroyed financially," Mr. Henriquez said.
La Lima is not alone. Several other similar-sized Honduran towns -- like Pespire and Choluteca -- are in the same condition. Other small cities on the northern coast were cut off. To reach La Ceiba, for instance, trucks and buses must still ford a wide, fast-moving river and pedestrians are forced to cross on a narrow cable bridge.
Around them, dozens of smaller communities are also struggling to recover from vast flood damage with even fewer resources. One of the worst-hit villages was La Guacamaya, a hamlet about 20 miles east of San Pedro Sula, in the shadow of the mountains that mark the Sula Valley's eastern boundary.
During the storm, a landslide in the mountains blocked the small river that runs through La Guacamaya and created a lake. On Thursday, Oct. 29, the waters broke through the temporary dam and crashed down the mountain, flooding the town. About 82 of the town's 400 houses were buried to their rooftops in mud and the main bridge linking the village to the nearest large town, El Progreso, was washed away. Local officials managed to evacuate the town before the water rose too high and no one was killed.
This month, a team of United States Navy engineers from Gulfport, Miss., cleared away much of the mud along the village's main street and built fords around the destroyed bridge. But the people in La Guacamaya say it will be a long time before their village recovers.
To begin with, most of the men in the town work in a nearby Sonosa sugar plantation. The owners, having lost much of their crop, have halved the workers' salaries, from $30 a week to less than $15. Dozens of families are camped next to the wreckage of their homes.
Griselda Flores and her husband, Jose Pinto, managed to escape the floods just before their three-room house was buried in mud and water. Mr. Pinto woke the family and carried his two youngest children on his back to higher ground. For the last month, the Pinto family had been living in an improvised shack next to what remains of their home. Their seven acres of land was stripped of corn and beans.
Mr. Pinto has been laid off by the sugar plantation. They are surviving on handouts from the World Food Program and a few clothes donated by other charities.
"We have been living without shoes, clothes, nothing," Ms. Flores said. "Without work it's not possible to recoup what we have lost, but someday perhaps we can, little by little."
In a sense, the Pinto family is lucky. Houses can be rebuilt. For the family members of at least 3,000 people known to have died here and more than 2,000 reported missing, there is no hope of recovering the past.
In Balin, the village about 50 miles south of San Pedro Sula where 17 people were buried in a mudslide on Nov. 2, many relatives of the victims and their neighbors are talking about moving. Some say they are nervous the landslides may happen again. Others simply cannot bear the memory of the terrible night when they woke to a sound like the world ending and the screams of survivors half-buried in mud and rock.
"I would leave here if I could, but we have no place to go," Ms. Marina Morales said as her 2-year-old daughter climbed into her lap. "We are all sad. We are trying to recuperate, but it's something very hard. Four members of my family are gone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The bridge over the Bonita River that was washed away during Hurricane Mitch was rebuilt, but five days of rain destroyed it again. Travelers between La Ceiba and Tela can cross on a pedestrian suspension bridge or pay to cross in a pulley operated cage. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Leila Marina Morales on her front porch in Balin, just yards from where her mother and three sisters were killed. In the town of La Lima, many people are still living in a tent city, where Cornelia Martinez, right, shares a tent with 18 people. (James C. McKinley Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map of Honduras showing the location of Balin: The hurricane that struck Honduras in November left 17 people dead in Balin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (98%); NICARAGUA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS; NICARAGUA; HONDURAS (98%); NICARAGUA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE MITCH; FOREIGN AID HURRICANES (91%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); IMMIGRATION (86%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (65%); DEPORTATION (63%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (61%); HELICOPTERS (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



545 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: A Big Turnaround at Long-Term Capital

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn., Dec. 24

 BODY:
Long-Term Capital Management L.P. could receive as much as $50 million in performance fees next month because the hedge fund has started making money after losing $4 billion earlier this year, according to a person close to the matter.
Long-Term Capital was taken over by a group of 14 banks and securities firms in September after its $4.8 billion of capital was nearly wiped out. 
 The fund gained about 11 percent, or about $400 million, in the two-month period ended Nov. 30, and the size of the performance fees will depend on how the fund does this month, the person said.
The fees would likely be used for legal costs and other expenses incurred in the bailout, the person said.
The performance fees are tied to a formula established by the banks when they took control of the hedge fund with a $3.625 billion investment.
Long-Term Capital is to receive 15 percent of any new profits from returns that exceed the average London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, the person said.
Any payments must be approved by the firms and an oversight committee that is in charge of Long-Term Capital's day-to-day activities, a Long-Term Capital spokesman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC (92%); CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATES INC (92%); CAPITAL MANAGEMENT SCIENCES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; HEDGE FUNDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) HEDGE FUNDS (92%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



546 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE HOMETOWN;
Back in Hot Springs, Few Townspeople Are Cooling on Clinton

BYLINE: By J. C. BARDEN 

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Ark., Dec. 24

 BODY:
In a week when temperatures in the 20's with low gray clouds, sleet and whipping winds made this central Arkansas city where Bill Clinton grew up uncommonly cold and gloomy, many residents' feelings about the President would surely warm his heart.
From Rocky's Corner, the bar and restaurant that was a favorite of his mother, to the Hot Springs Country Club, and from Hester's cafe, where some of the local political pundits gather for breakfast, to the Faded Rose restaurant in the historic downtown district, people defend Mr. Clinton despite what they acknowledge to be his moral mistakes, attack Kenneth W. Starr for "hound-dogging" a trail they think would have been best left cold and rail against their Congressman, who voted for the two articles of impeachment that the House of Representatives adopted. 
 To be sure, some people here do want to see Mr. Clinton removed from office. Of 65 people interviewed,10 said they would like to see him ousted, and 2 more said he should resign. But the rest were firmly in his corner, some for the first time.
"I have never voted for him before in my life, but I would vote for him now," said Cliff Crook, a furniture store owner who had stopped at Rocky's. "He hasn't done anything anybody else hasn't done."
Mr. Crook denounced the impeachment votes cast by Representative Jay Dickey, a Republican whose district includes Hot Springs, and predicted continued public support for Mr. Clinton.
"He's good for the country," Mr. Crook said, "no matter what kind of reputation he has."
Mike Simonovich, the owner of Rocky's, who proudly pointed out the table that was once so frequently occupied by Mr. Clinton's mother, the late Virginia Clinton Kelley, often after her visits to the Oaklawn Park race track across the street, said the President could "still take care of business."
Yet some did lament what they saw as the unfulfilled potential of Mr. Clinton's second term. One was Wendy Watterson, a recent college graduate and resident of nearby Arkadelphia, who had stopped by Rocky's for a pizza. Ms. Watterson was herself a White House intern in 1996 and, she said, had three "face to face" meetings with Mr. Clinton, always with many others around. So, she said, she was extremely surprised at disclosure of the President's Oval Office encounters with Monica S. Lewinsky, whom she never met.
Ms. Watterson, who favors censure of the President rather than his removal, said, "What is really disappointing is that he had such lofty goals, especially about a real dialogue on multicultural issues, that in the end will be overcome by something unfavorable and very personal."
Mark Moore, a manager for a stereo manufacturer, attacked the investigative methods of Mr. Starr, the independent counsel.
"I think Starr had a vendetta against Clinton," Mr. Moore said. "A $50 million hound dog will eventually force someone into a mistake."
At Hester's cafe, about a mile south of Rocky's, there was greater disappointment directed at the conduct of the President himself. Almost everyone who was asked whether his behavior reflected badly on the state said it had damaged the country as a whole far more.
"He's our man -- he was bad, but we've got to forgive him," said John Bates, a builder. "He's not hurt Arkansas as bad as he's hurt the nation."
Among the toughest on Mr. Clinton was Zeke Hogeland, a retiree, who said the Senate ought to remove him.
"I never liked the man since he was in high school," Mr. Hogeland said. "He was a spoiled brat who could do no wrong in his mother's eyes. If he had not lied under oath, this would never have come about."
But others, especially men, saw a distinction between lying, on one hand, and lying about sexual matters, on the other.
"If you're talking about lying about having an affair with an intern," said Larry Johnson, a builder, "that's not lying. That's survival."
Peggy Jackson, a waitress, saw politics behind the effort to drive Mr. Clinton from office, and was also critical of Ms. Lewinsky.
"This woman is going to be a multimillionaire because of what happened, and he's going to lose his career," Ms. Jackson said. "If I were Hillary, I would sue Monica for alienation of affection in a minute."
Ms. Jackson was one of several people angered by Congressman Dickey's votes for impeachment. In a telephoned response to the criticism, he said, "I expected the harsh reaction, and I hope I can explain to the voters it was a vote of conscience."
Asked whether he might join those members of the House who voted for impeachment but have since appealed to the Senate to consider censure, Mr. Dickey replied: "I've released myself completely from the final results. Whatever happens in the Senate will be completely acceptable to me."
In the oldest part of the downtown section of Central Avenue, known as Bathhouse Row, luncheon diners at the upscale Faded Rose restaurant were largely opposed to the President's ouster. Shirley Robins, who works at a mental health center, said: "He's been hounded from the minute of his election. It's just a shame that his personal life got in the way of his career. He could have done a lot more. He's got me hypnotized -- like Elvis Presley."
At St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center, about five miles south of downtown, Dr. Devi Jayaramanm, a pathologist who was a longtime friend of Mrs. Kelley, a nurse-anesthetist, said of her son, "It would be bad to kick him out of office when he's doing a good job."
Another friend of Mrs. Kelley, Mabel Taylor, a nurse, said: "I love Bill. I think he should be punished but not kicked out."
"He loves black people," said Ms. Taylor, who is black. "He grew up around them, and it made no difference to him or Virginia whether you were black or white."
In the Stag Room of the Hot Springs Country Club, where about 15 members, mostly retired, were gathered for card games, the heated positions on both sides of the issue generally subsided into mutters when an interviewer asked for names. Of the several who identified themselves, one was Scott Campbell, former chief prosecutor here in Garland County, who said the President ought to be allowed to complete his term.
"What would be accomplished if Bill Clinton were removed?" Mr. Campbell said. "How would it affect the dollar, the economy, the market and, maybe most important, the foreign situation? These are not offenses that would interfere with his carrying out his duties as President."
And, Mr. Campbell added, as a prosecutor "I never charged anyone with perjury."
Jim Guerin looked up from his cards to say, "The Pope couldn't stand up under this investigation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay Dickey, the Clinton hometown's Congressman, who voted for impeachment. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; HOT SPRINGS (ARK); UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) RESTAURANTS (91%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ETHICS (70%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARDEN, J C; DICKEY, JAY (REPR); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



547 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVER;
A Few Words at The End

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
Since it is Christmas, a day on which nobody reads a newspaper anyhow, and since this is the last of these columns titled "Observer" which have been appearing in The Times since 1962, I shall take the otherwise inexcusable liberty of talking about me and newspapers. I love them.
I have loved them since childhood when my Uncle Allen regularly brought home Hearst's New York Journal-American with its wonderful comics, Burris Jenkins cartoons and tales of rich playboys, murderous playgirls and their love nests. At that age I hadn't a guess about what a love nest might be, and didn't care, and since something about "love nest" sounded curiously illegal, I never asked an adult for edification. 
 On Sundays Uncle Allen always brought The New York Times and read himself to sleep with it. Such a dismal mass of gray paper was of absolutely no interest to me. It was Katzenjammer Kids and Maggie and Jiggs of the King Features syndicate with whom I wanted to spend Sunday.
At my friend Harry's house I discovered the New York tabloids. Lots of great pictures. Dick Tracy! Plenty of stories about condemned killers being executed, with emphasis on what they had eaten for their last meal, before walking -- the last mile! The tabloids left me enthralled by the lastness of things.
Inevitably, I was admitted to practice the trade, and I marveled at the places newspapers could take me. They took me to suburbs on sunny Saturday afternoons to witness the mortal results of family quarrels in households that kept pistols. They took me to hospital emergency rooms to listen to people die and to ogle nurses.
They took me to the places inhabited by the frequently unemployed and there taught me the smell of poverty. In winter there was also the smell of deadly kerosene stoves used for heating, though their tendency to set bedrooms on fire sent the morgue a predictable stream of customers every season.
The memory of those smells has been a valuable piece of equipment during my career as a columnist. Columnists' tendency to spend their time with life's winners and to lead lives of isolation from the less dazzling American realities makes it too easy for us sometimes to solve the nation's problems in 700 words.
Newspapers have taken me into the company of the great as well as the greatly celebrated. On these expeditions I have sat in the Elysee Palace and gazed on the grandeur that was Charles de Gaulle speaking as from Olympus. I have watched Nikita Khrushchev, fresh from terrifying Jack Kennedy inside a Vienna Embassy, emerge to clown with the press.
I have been apologized to by Richard Nixon. I have seen Adlai Stevenson, would-be President of the United States, shake hands with a department-store dummy in Florida.
I have been summoned on a Saturday morning to the Capitol of the United States to meet with Lyndon Johnson, clad in pajamas and urgently needing my advice on how to break a civil-rights filibuster. I have often been played for a fool like this by other interesting men and, on occasion, equally interesting women.
Pope John XXIII included me in an audience he granted the press group en route to Turkey, Iran and points east with President Eisenhower. The Pope's feet barely reached the floor and seemed to dance as he spoke.
Newspapers took me to Westminster Abbey in a rental white tie and topper to see Queen Elizabeth crowned and to Versailles in another rental white-tie-and-tails rig to share a theater evening with the de Gaulles and the John F. Kennedys.
Thanks to newspapers, I have made a four-hour visit to Afghanistan, have seen the Taj Mahal by moonlight, breakfasted at dawn on lamb and couscous while sitting by the marble pool of a Moorish palace in Morocco and once picked up a persistent family of fleas in the Balkans.
In Iran I have ridden in a press bus over several miles of Oriental carpets with which the Shah had ordered the street covered between airport and town to honor the visiting Eisenhower, a man who, during a White House news conference which I attended in shirtsleeves, once identified me as "that man that's got the shirt on."
I could go on and on, and probably will somewhere sometime, but the time for this enterprise is up. Thanks for listening for the past three million words.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KING FEATURES SYNDICATE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL JOHN F KENNEDY (72%); RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



548 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Chip-Making Equipment Fall for 6th Straight Month

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Worldwide sales of equipment used to make microprocessor chips fell 43 percent in October, compared with the corresponding period a year earlier, industry figures showed today.
It was the sixth consecutive month of decline and reflected cuts in spending on equipment by Japanese and South Korean semiconductor makers. 
 The weakness is hurting the bottom lines of many of the world's largest producers of chip-making equipment, such as Applied Materials Inc. and Lam Research Corporation in the United States; ASM Lithography Holding N.V. of the Netherlands and Tokyo Electron Ltd., the Nikon Corporation and the Advantest Corporation in Japan.
Worldwide sales of chip-making equipment totaled $1.491 billion in October, the Semiconductor Equipment Association of Japan said. Equipment orders, which lag sales by several months, fell in October for the 11th straight month.
The drop in sales reflects cuts in spending on equipment by the Samsung Electronics Company of South Korea, the world's largest maker of computer memory chips, and Japan's six largest chip-makers.
The six -- NEC, Toshiba, Hitachi Ltd., Fujitsu Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric and Oki Electric Industry -- are cutting investment on their chip businesses by a combined 44 percent in the year through March 1999.
The cuts in investment mean that cumulative sales for the April-October period declined in each of the five regional markets tracked by the semiconductor association.
Sales in the United States, the largest market for such equipment, totaled $531 million in October. Cumulative United States sales for the April-October period were 25 percent lower than the comparable period a year earlier. Sales had surged 39.4 percent in the year ended March 31.
Japan, the second-largest market for semiconductor-making equipment, had sales of $297 million in October. Cumulative sales for April through October fell 39.5 percent from a year earlier, reflecting cuts in spending on equipment by NEC and Japan's other chip-makers.
South Korean sales totaled $110 million during the month, resulting in a cumulative tumble of 51.4 percent since April, a sign of the impact of the sharp depreciation of the won, South Korea's currency, which has cast the economy into its worst recession in more than 50 years.
Sales of chip-making equipment in South Korea fell 15.8 percent in the year ended March 31, the largest decline of any market tracked by the semiconductor association.
European sales totaled $191 million in October, and sales for April through October fell 6.9 percent. Europe had been the only regional market to show growth in the April-September period.
Chip-making equipment sales figures tend to lag order numbers by as much as half a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 8035 (TSE) (91%); AMAT (NASDAQ) (91%); ASML (NASDAQ) (84%); ASML (AMS) (84%); 6501 (TSE) (84%); FUJ (LSE) (82%); 6702 (TSE) (82%); LRCX (NASDAQ) (72%); 7731 (TSE) (71%); ATE (NYSE) (71%); 6857 (TSE) (71%); SMSN (LSE) (69%); 005930 (KSE) (69%); 6703 (TSE) (68%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (91%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (91%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3827 OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS & LENSES (84%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (71%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT ASSN OF JAPAN TOKYO ELECTRON LTD (91%); APPLIED MATERIALS INC (91%); ASML HOLDING NV (84%); HITACHI LTD (84%); FUJITSU LTD (82%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (72%); NIKON CORP (71%); ADVANTEST CORP (71%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (69%); OKI ELECTRIC INDUSTRY CO LTD (68%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT ASSN OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER CHIPS; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COMPUTER CHIPS (92%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



549 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
Lawyer Errs On the Side Of Angels

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN 

 BODY:
In "A Civil Action," the self-interested lawyer played by John Travolta gets a speeding ticket that changes his life. As Jan Schlichtmann, on whose bruising experiences the best-selling book by Jonathan Harr was based, Mr. Travolta gets stopped while racing his Porsche back to Boston from Woburn, Mass.
He has just disappointed a group of decent, aggrieved Woburn citizens whose children were casualties of a poisoned river. A case like that isn't worth a thing to ambulance-chasing Jan. 
 But he spies some sudsy water while his car is stopped. Intrigued, he even muddies his expensive shoes tracking the water to its source. When he finally finds the tannery that has been dumping evil-looking chemicals, Schlichtmann's face lights up: not from solving the mystery, but from discovering that the factory is linked to the deep-pocketed corporations Beatrice Foods and W. R. Grace & Company.
Anyone who can spell J-O-H-N G-R-I-S-H-A-M can imagine the ripe dramatic possibilities here. Maybe Schlichtmann will uncover a billion-dollar conspiracy centering on the factory and dig to the bottom of it, with a beautiful female colleague at his side. Or maybe he will just change his ways, lose the suits, become a passionate environmentalist and champion Woburn's citizenry until the good fight is won.
What makes this gripping, expertly acted film by Steven Zaillian so enveloping is its avoidance of anything that easy. The story presents both Schlichtmann and the civil court system as stubbornly complicated. And it tells a finely nuanced tale of right, wrong and the gray area in between.
Those who remember Mr. Zaillian's previous film, "Searching for Bobby Fischer," or his screenplay for "Schindler's List" will recognize the keen, watchful intelligence he brings to this story.
Just as Mr. Harr did on the page, the filmmaker presents Schlichtmann as an abrasive yet affecting character and treats everything else in the story in equally lifelike terms. Schlichtmann's glaring mistakes become as compelling as his smart moves, to the point where "A Civil Action" rings more true than most films about the law. Mr. Zaillian has also faced the problem of the real story's very non-Hollywood outcome and made it slightly more palatable on screen, without minimizing the toll the prolonged Woburn case took on its participants. "A Civil Action" is ultimately less about winning or losing than about the difficulty of playing a game in which settlement-hungry lawyers gamble against tremendous odds and risk losing their bearings in the process. William H. Macy, who plays the bean-counting member of Schlichtmann's small firm so enjoyably here, even complains about financial trouble to Kathleen Quinlan, as a somber mother whose child fell victim to Woburn's pollution. "How can you even begin to compare what you've lost to what we've lost?" she snaps in reply.
"A Civil Action" is very much an actor's film, with Mr. Travolta at his best in the central role. The star captures this showboating lawyer with that special zeal he brings to less-than-angelic figures. (To watch Schlichtmann get upset about water spilled on his conference table is to know a lot about the man.) Yet his reluctant, unanticipated decency is made very real, too. Mr. Travolta and "A Civil Action" are good enough to see beyond the particulars of one case and treat Schlichtmann as emblematic, a man badly in need of a wake-up call. The performance is strong enough to carry the audience along with Schlichtmann's transformation, every step of the way.
Also outstandingly deft here is Robert Duvall as Jerome Facher, a daunting corporate lawyer who cultivates his oddball mannerisms to Machiavellian effect. Mr. Zaillian's screenwriting, economical and revealing, is sharp enough to announce Facher's tactics just by watching him shred a young man who interrupts him. Beyond being a fine showcase for Mr. Duvall's wiles, the film also elicits shrewd, first-rate performances from John Lithgow as a judge who takes a quick dislike to Schlichtmann, James Gandolfini as a conscience-stricken witness in the case and the director Sydney Pollack in another of his mischievous acting turns. Tony Shalhoub and Zeljko Ivanek join Mr. Macy as partners dragged along by the Schlichtmann coattails even when those coattails seem to be headed over a cliff.
"A Civil Action" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It includes profanity and implicit scenes of death.
 
A CIVIL ACTION
Directed by Steven Zaillian; written by Mr. Zaillian, based on the book by Jonathan Harr; director of photography, Conrad L. Hall; edited by Wayne Wahrman; music by Danny Elfman; production designer, David Gropman; produced by Scott Rudin, Robert Redford and Rachel Pfeffer; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 113 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.
 
WITH: John Travolta (Jan Schlichtmann), Robert Duvall (Jerome Facher), Tony Shalhoub (Kevin Conway), William H. Macy (James Gordon), Zeljko Ivanek (Bill Crowley), Bruce Norris (William Cheeseman), Kathleen Quinlan (Anne Anderson), Peter Jacobson (Neil Jacobs), Mary Mara (Kathy Boyer), James Gandolfini (Al Love), Stephen Fry (Pinder), John Lithgow (Judge Skinner), Dan Hedaya (John Riley) and Sydney Pollack (Al Eustis).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fighting the good fight: John Travolta as a personal-injury lawyer in "A Civil Action," directed by Steven Zaillian and based on Jonathan Harr's best seller about toxic pollution in a small town. (David James/Touchstone Pictures)(pg. E1); So much riding on a gamble: John Travolta, left, with, clockwise, Robert Duvall, Zeljko Ivanek and John Lithgow in "A Civil Action." (David James/Touchstone Pictures)(pg. E32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CIVIL ACTION, A (MOVIE)

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: W R GRACE & CO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FILM (86%); CONSPIRACY (75%); BESTSELLERS (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); 

PERSON: MASLIN, JANET; ZAILLIAN, STEVEN; TRAVOLTA, JOHN JOHN TRAVOLTA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



550 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Freeze in California Decimates Citrus Crop
A four-day freeze has destroyed more than a third of California's annual citrus crop, inflicting nearly $500 million in damage and leading to predictions that orange prices would triple.
Across California, cold air from the Gulf of Alaska sent temperatures below freezing on Monday, with readings in the high teens and low 20's in the agriculturally rich Central Valley yesterday -- the worst cold spell since a 10-day freeze in 1990. Officials pronounced the lemon crop a near total loss in the valley and said perhaps half the state's orange crop was lost as well. Page A1. 

A Case of Use It or Lose It
More than four million Americans who have Flexible Spending Accounts -- tax-free money set aside by employers for health care expenses not covered by insurance -- must spend what is left in their accounts before Jan. 1 or forfeit the money. Some health care advocates say the program encourages unnecessary -- and therefore wasteful -- medical care. A1.
 
Japan Joblessness Hits Record
Japan's unemployment rate rose to a postwar record of 4.4 percent in November, equaling the U.S. jobless rate for the first time. C2.
 
American Express and Chase Settle
Chase Manhattan said it had reached a settlement with American Express, two days after the charge card giant filed a lawsuit in Federal court contending that Chase used false advertising and deceptive acts in marketing its platinum credit cards. The terms of the settlement were not disclosed. C15.
 
Help Offered for Hog Farmers
The Agriculture Secretary announced steps to slow the slide in hog prices and offered farmers hope for easier credit. A18.
 
Taiwan to Start Loan Program
Taiwan's central bank said it would start a plan to help home buyers and industrial companies get loans as the island's economy grows at its slowest pace in a decade. C2.
 
Stocks End Mixed in Slow Trading
The stock market, which closed three hours early because of the holiday, ended mixed in the slowest trading of the year. The Dow rose 15.96 points, or two-tenths of a percent, to 9,217.99. The S.& P. 500, which had set records for three straight days, fell 2.27 points, or two-tenths of a percent, to 1,226.27. Nasdaq also retreated from its record, falling 9.51 points, or four-tenths of a percent, to 2,163.03. C4.
 
Bond prices fell for a fourth session, driving the yield on the 30-year Treasury to 5.21 percent from 5.18 percent. C4.
 
Sanofi in Talks to Sell Unit
Sanofi, France's No. 2 drug maker, said it was in talks with suitors interested in its cosmetics and fashion unit after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's biggest luxury-goods maker, bowed out of bidding. C3.
 
Trying to Ignore Antitrust Shadow
With Microsoft embroiled in an antitrust case, ceaselessly depicted as the bully of the cyberworld, the company's nearly 15,000 workers at its headquarters outside Seattle have a rude reminder that the software giant is not necessarily the master of its own fate. The case lurks on the Microsoft campus as a large menace that no one really wants to acknowledge but that can hardly be ignored. A14.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,217.99, up 15.96
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.21% up 0.03
The Dollar -- 116.29 yen, up 0.33
 
Graph tracks the S. & P. 500 index, since Dec. 21. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MC (PAR) (62%); LVMH (BIT) (62%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); SNY (NYSE) (50%); SANF (BIT) (50%); SAN (PAR) (50%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (62%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (62%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (62%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); SANOFI SA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); CITRUS GROVES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (88%); CREDIT CARDS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); LITIGATION (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (85%); ORANGE GROVES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BONDS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COSMETICS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (71%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (69%); HOG & PIG FARMING (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); BOND MARKETS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



551 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Popular Tax-Free Health Plans Spark Holiday Rush to Doctors

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
For many Americans, December is a month for compulsory shopping sprees, with the urgency escalating as Christmas approaches. But for Olivia Hewitt, the seasonal panic goes beyond choosing between a Furby (if she could find one) or a Barbie for her niece. Instead she wondered, "Should I get a fourth pair of glasses, have my teeth cleaned again, do a marathon session with my therapist or try acupuncture?"
Even though Ms. Hewitt, 31, a paralegal from Fremont, Calif., is in perfect health, she faces the odd quandary of having to spend $500 on medical care before the ball drops on New Year's Eve -- or forfeit the money. 
 And she is far from alone. Her deadline is shared by many of the more than four million Americans who have Flexible Spending Accounts -- tax-free money set aside by employers for health care expenses not covered by insurance. These increasingly popular accounts provide a hefty tax break on medical-related expenses ranging from psychotherapy and orthodontia to contact lenses, contraceptives and artificial limbs. The Internal Revenue Service allows employees to stash away any amount, deducted from paychecks. Employers benefit by avoiding payroll tax on that money.
"It's a win-win for everyone," said Robert Owen, an owner of Choice One, a benefits administration company in King of Prussia, Pa.
There is, however, a hitch.
Participants must pick an amount at the beginning of each year, and any money not spent by Dec. 31 goes back to the boss, who can use it to pay for administering the program. This use-it-or-lose-it rule can lead to an unusual spending binge at year's end, often on goods and services people do not need.
Podiatrists, optometrists, dentists, dermatologists, even psychotherapists -- any providers of nonemergency care -- love the program, and don't seem to mind having their holidays interrupted. Some are even booking New Year's Eve appointments. "Between mid-November and late December, anyone who has money left in their account comes in trying to get rid of it," said Krishan Patel, the manager of Medical Optics, an eyeglass shop in Towson, Md. "For us, it's great."
But some health care advocates say the program may not be so great for efforts to make health care more accessible to all Americans. They say it encourages unnecessary -- and therefore wasteful -- medical care, mostly benefits wealthier Americans and deprives the Government of tax dollars that would be better spent providing medical insurance to the working poor.
For many Americans, though, the immediate problem is the year-end surplus. Aetna Inc. estimates that at least two-thirds of its 400,000 customers who have flexible spending accounts find themselves with an average of $150 at the end of November. "December rolls around and people suddenly realize that they have to get busy," said Patty Seif, a company spokeswoman. "No one likes to lose money."
But finding a way to spend it often provokes more stress than satisfaction. With $400 in her account last week, Caroline Power Gangl was flustered. "I could get a new pair of prescription sunglasses or go to the chiropractor and get an adjustment, but it all seems so unnecessary," said Ms. Power Gangl, 35, a public relations executive in Hershey, Pa. "If I had crow's feet, I'd go in for some surgery."
Some try a little creative bending of the rules, which specifically disallow numerous procedures, like liposuction and teeth bleaching, by urging doctors to deem all manner of procedures medically necessary. A California woman suffering from psoriasis spent down her account on a curative bath in the Dead Sea. Another tried to use her tax-free savings on exercise tapes; one man submitted receipts for a new hardwood floor that replaced the carpeting he said was making him ill.
"People will try anything," said Debbie Venie Robinson, a spokeswoman for the Cigna Corporation. The company did accept the woman's air fare to Israel as a bona fide medical-related expense. But the new flooring and the exercise tapes? Sorry.
While the last-minute rush is often frustrating for account holders, health care providers cannot praise them enough. "It's better than Christmas," said Carl Zyskowski, the owner of Eyetopia, a chain of optical stores in Hartford. Like many opticians, Mr. Zyskowski said lots of people found it easier to spend their leftover savings on saline solution, disposable contact lenses or designer glasses than submit to another physical exam. Some even call on Dec. 31 and beg the store to charge their credit card for amounts as high as $300. Then, after the new year, they come in to use their credit. "December used to be the slowest month," he said. "Now it's just amazing."
Dr. Cary Silverman, an ophthalmologist in Parsippany, N.J., said the growth of flexible spending accounts has been a boon to his laser surgery practice. The procedure, which permanently corrects a patient's vision, costs $5,000 for both eyes. Depending on the tax bracket of the patient, that means it is up to $2,000 cheaper for those using flexible dollars. "That's a real incentive," said Dr. Silverman, who sent out notices to patients last month reminding them of the savings -- and the deadline. The response has been so good he has scheduled several appointments on New Year's Eve.
Dr. Harvey Zarem, a plastic surgeon in Los Angeles, said he would have to end his Christmas vacation early this year. "We're all jammed up," he said, "but I'm not complaining." Physicians and dentists also like having no insurance forms to fill out; patients simply submit receipts to their accounts manager.
Although Federal tax law does not allow the money to be spent on purely cosmetic surgery, some patients say they get around the rules by asking their doctors to describe procedures as medically necessary. "We had a woman in here the other day who wanted breast augmentation and asked us to say it was necessary," said Dr. Susan Downey, a Los Angeles plastic surgeon. "There can be gray areas, but this clearly was not one of them."
Created by Congress in 1984, flexible spending accounts were designed to give workers relief from ever-shrinking health care coverage. But to gain the tax-free dollars, account holders had to risk forfeiting unused money at the end of each year. I.R.S. officials explained that condition by likening the program to health insurance, noting that you cannot ask for your premium back at the end of the year just because you did not get sick.
But some health care experts say this provision has hampered the growth of the program, which is used by about 20 percent of those it is offered to, according to the Employers Council on Flexible Compensation, a Washington-based lobbying group. "It's wonderful, inexpensive money, but a lot of people are dissuaded by the fear of losing what they don't spend," said Bonnie Whyte, a lobbyist for the council, which estimates that nearly a million people lost an average of $156 in 1994, the most recent year for which figures are available. The council has so far been unable to persuade Congress to make changes in the law.
Representative David Dreier, a Republican from California, plans to introduce a bill in the House next year that would give participants the option of rolling over their accounts from year to year, transferring it into an I.R.A. or taking any unused money as taxable income. "The law is silly," he said, "and has the perverse effect of forcing people to overconsume otherwise unnecessary health care."
Others say the entire concept is misguided. "I can't imagine anything more hare-brained," said Uwe S. Reinhardt, a health care economist at Princeton University. "I wonder what kind of fiendish mind is forcing me to get a fourth colon oscopy every year so I burn down my account?" Like other critics, Mr. Reinhardt said the plan unfairly benefited those in high tax brackets while lower-income workers went without any health care coverage. "Why are rich people getting a 40 percent discount on their kids' orthodontia," he asked, "but gas station attendants have no insurance at all?"
Even while struggling to spend down their accounts, most of those who use them say the benefits outweigh the year-end stress and the occasional lost money. Even those who put, say, $5,000 in an account but spend only $4,000 will probably win out: Assuming a 30 percent marginal tax rate, the account has cost them only $3,500 out of pocket, so they are $500 ahead.
Debbie Venie Robinson of Cigna, who called herself "a poster child for flexible benefits," says she finds plenty of use for the $1,000 she puts aside each year. Some of it goes toward deductibles, prescription drugs, contact lenses and co-payments for visits to the doctor. She has also had elective surgery on her feet twice, once to treat an in-grown toenail and another time to correct a hammertoe.
"And my daughter is in day care, which is a germ factory, so I'm constantly finding good use for the money," said Ms. Venie Robinson, who lives in Wilmington, Del. "If it wasn't for these accounts, I would probably still be embarrassed to wear sandals in public."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (92%); AETNA INC (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (66%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (89%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (88%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); DENTISTRY (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); POOR POPULATION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); OPTOMETRY (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%); PARALEGALS (71%); PODIATRY (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); DERMATOLOGY (62%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (52%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW CARL ZYSKOWSKI (63%); OLIVIA HEWITT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



552 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Bratzke's Surge Could Carry Him Off Giants

BYLINE: By STEVE POPPER

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Dec. 24

 BODY:
The Giants finished practice today and while most of the players streamed out of the practice bubble where they were working, the defensive linemen gathered together and clasped hands above their heads and spoke quietly among themselves.
For Chad Bratzke, this show of togetherness on a unit that has been one of the best in the National Football League this season, was a little bit more emotional than usual since every move he makes could possibly be his last as a Giant. 
 After earning his way into the league and the lineup, then suffering through a frightening injury a year ago, Bratzke is approaching the season finale at Philadelphia with the knowledge that it could be his final game in a Giants uniform. An unrestricted free agent, Bratzke has enjoyed by far the best season of his five-year career and both he and the Giants are aware that a team hungry for a pass rusher could make him an offer that will be too good to pass up.
"It has been tough, not knowing where my destiny is going to lie," Bratzke said. "Last game, I was very motivated, knowing that it may have been my last game at Giants Stadium with a Giants uniform. It's very possible, but hopefully that won't be true. This, of course, could be my last game. You never know what can happen. You always hope for the best and I hope things work out, but I don't know.
Last week, Bratzke responded with a career-high 2.5 sacks, raising his season total to 12.5, far exceeding the 8.5 he had in his first four seasons in the league.
"I'm still of the mind-set that I'm hoping that I'm going to be here in New York," Bratzke said today. "I'm hoping that I'm going to stay. I'm hoping things are going to work out. I've had such a wonderful experience here in so many different ways, the coaching staff, the people here, and the players, and just living so close to New York. There's so many positive things in my life the last five years, it's incredible. I would be very sad to leave and lose good, close friends. I'm trying not to think about that. It would put me in the tank."
Bratzke could not have imagined this situation when he was fighting for playing time his first three seasons. "As a player, when I first came to the Giants I just wanted to make the team," said Bratzke, who was a fifth-round draft pick in 1994. "These are things you dream about, getting to a point where you're a free agent, you're established and doing very well."
He certainly could not have foreseen this good fortune last year when he sustained ligament damage in his left knee and an avulsion fracture to his left fibula, ending his season and putting his career in doubt. He still bears a horrendous scar.
"I was on crutches for 10 weeks," he said. "It gave me a lot to think about when I was sitting at home watching those last six regular-season games and that playoff game on my couch. It kind of rejuvenated me some. Sometimes you don't realize how much you love something until it's gone, it's taken from you. I worked real hard in the off season and the hard work has really paid off."
Exactly what the payoff will be is still unknown. Bratzke switched agents during the season and the two sides have not conducted any contract talks. But with each game that passes, and with every meeting at the opposing quarterback by Bratzke and Michael Strahan, the price would seem to rise.
"They want to keep him, pay him that almighty dollar and we'll be here for some years to come together," Strahan said. "That's the bottom line. This game is about economics, this game is a business, and the business end of it is that Chad is very marketable right now. He's worth every penny he's going to get. It's just a matter of who's going to give it to him."
Certainly, Bratzke sees himself first as a Giant. "I'm happy with my season, the way it's gone so far," he said, "I want to finish up this last game on a very positive note.
"I'm going to let the chips fall where they're going to fall. I've never been a free agent before, so I don't know what to expect. I'm excited about the opportunities, but I'm also excited about the opportunity that I still have a chance to stay in New York."
Of his chances of remaining a Giant, Bratzke said: "I think they're interested. They had mentioned that they were interested a few times during the season, just after the middle of the year. I think it was best for both sides just to let us finish up the season. These things can be very distracting.
"The money and the contract is kind of the evil part of the game. I'd like to come out here and just play football. But being a business, you have to deal with that. We just wanted to wait until after the season to deal with it."
Coach Jim Fassel said: "I feel fairly comfortable that Chad wants to be here and realizes that between the scheme and all the other people that everybody has to worry about, he doesn't have to get double-teamed. He has the freedom a lot of times of rushing one-on-one and he's really stepped up that way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chad Bratzke, stopping Kansas City's Bam Morris, has matured into a star with the Giants this season. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



553 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Unemployment Rate Hits Postwar High of 4.4%

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Japan said today that its unemployment rate rose to a postwar record of 4.4 percent in November, equaling the United States jobless rate for the first time.
Many economists had expected the jobless rate to remain at 4.3 percent, and the news helped reinforce the sense that the world's second-largest economy remained entrenched in the worst recession since the end of World War II. Even in bad times, Japan's unemployment rate historically has been far lower than that of the United States. 
 The number of unemployed rose to 2.9 million in November, a rise of 28 percent from the corresponding month last year, according to the Management and Coordination Agency.
Unemployment is increasing as smaller companies go bankrupt and large companies hire fewer workers and encourage early retirement because consumers, concerned about jobs, prefer to save rather than spend. Yet, unless consumers spend more, corporate profits will continue to fall, leading to further job cuts. Government efforts to break this cycle are not expected to create new jobs for a while.
The International Monetary Fund said in a report released in Washington on Monday that it expected unemployment in Japan to average 4.9 percent next year.
Large companies in Japan generally reduce excess labor by hiring fewer university graduates and offering early retirement packages to older employees. Of the 2.9 million unemployed in Japan, 800,000 are 24 to 34 years old, and 550,000 are between the ages of 55 and 64.
The Government unveiled a large-scale stimulus package in November that included income tax cuts of 4.3 trillion yen. The package was designed to invigorate consumer spending, which accounts for 65 percent of the economy.
Japan's economy has contracted for four consecutive quarters through September. The Government estimates that the economy will shrink by 2.2 percent in the year through March 1999.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Cutbacks at Isuzu
TOKYO, Dec. 24 (Bloomberg News) -- Isuzu Motors Ltd., an affiliate of the General Motors Corporation, said today that it would cut 4,000 jobs and sell assets in an effort to return to profitability.
The Japanese auto maker, which makes some of G.M.'s best-selling small trucks as well as the Trooper sport-utility vehicle, said it would reduce its group labor force 10 percent through attrition by March 2001. It will sell 100 billion yen, or $860 million, in assets and consolidate its truck-sales operations in Japan.
As a result, the company hopes to report a pretax profit of 10 billion yen for the fiscal year that begins April 1, 2000. Isuzu posted a loss for the first half of the current fiscal year and is expected to record a deficit for the full year as well.
G.M. paid $456 million last week to increase its stake in Isuzu to 49 percent from the 37.5 percent it had held since 1971. The companies jointly build trucks and parts in Asia, Europe and the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 7202 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ISUZU MOTORS LTD (63%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (74%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



554 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Serbian Forces Attack Northern Kosovo Province
A sustained assault by Serbian forces in northern Kosovo province ended a tenuous cease-fire, as more than 40 armored vehicles and tanks fought through the day with separatist guerrillas. The attack came after 11 days of combat and assassinations in which, international monitors say, the two sides have shown they do not intend to solve their differences peacefully. A1 

New Figure in Israeli Politics
Gen. Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, 54, retired from the Israeli Army and entered Israel's electoral fray, leading most polls as a possible candidate for Prime Minister. Many expect him to present himself as a centrist candidate in elections to be held this spring, following the Parliament's vote on Monday to dissolve Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's disintegrated Government. A1
 
Bin Laden Denies Role in Blasts
Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile whom the United States considers one of the world's most dangerous terrorists, denied any role in the bombings last summer of American embassies in Africa, but said he is not sorry they happened, a Pakistani news agency reported. Mr. bin Laden, who has been living in Afghanistan, said he did know the men who were involved in the bombings, which killed more than 250 people. A7
 
Split Likely for French Far-Right
Jean-Marie Le Pen, the founder of France's far-right National Front party, had his former deputy and six other party leaders expelled from its executive body this week. A split of the party now seems likely, a former lieutenant said, making it possible for separate National Front slates of candidates to run in the European Parliament elections. A10
 
Coping After Hurricane Mitch
Many residents of Honduras are still trying to come to terms with the disasters caused by Hurricane Mitch. The vast storm was one of the region's worst natural disaster this century, leaving several thousand dead and hundreds of thousands homeless, while crippling the economies of Honduras and Nicaragua. A6
 
Balloon Flies Over Pacific
Balloonists Richard Branson, Per Lindstrand and Steve Fossett sped across the Pacific Ocean toward the United States, more than halfway into their around-the-world journey. The team's operations director said there was a chance the balloon would arrive over Oregon today. A11
 
Pope Looks to Christmas '99
Pope John Paul II celebrated a Christmas Eve Mass with his mind on the next one. He said he looked ahead eagerly to the opening of the year that will launch Christianity's third millennium. "My thoughts already turn to Christmas next year, when, God willing, the church shall inaugurate the great jubilee with the opening of the holy door," John Paul said at St. Peter's Basilica. (AP)
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A12-30
 
Citrus Prices to Reflect Damage From Sudden Cold
A brutal four-day freeze has destroyed more than a third of California's annual citrus crop, inflicting more than a half-billion dollars in damage and raising the prospect of tripled orange prices in supermarkets by next week. A1
 
Warning Against Impeachment
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, in his first public statement about Senate action, made it clear that President Clinton should be censured but not removed from office, warning that the move to oust him might threaten to "very readily destabilize the Presidency." A1
 
Local election officials in various parts of the country say a surprising number of people have changed their party registration from Republican to Democrat, a small but telling sign of the political fallout from the House impeachment vote. A30
 
Mr. Clinton's impeachment was unlikely to figure prominently in Christmas Eve and Christmas Day sermons, clergy members said. A27
 
Air Force Cites Pilot's Turmoil
The Air Force pilot who flew his attack jet into a Colorado mountainside last year was in mental turmoil over unrequited love for a former girlfriend and over his mother's Christian pacifist faith, a "psychological autopsy" by the Air Force has concluded. A22
 
Fire Risk at the Capitol
The nation's Capitol and five House office buildings are firetraps that leave visitors, members of Congress and employees with an "undue risk of loss of life and property," the House inspector general has concluded in a scathing report. A15
 
Help for Hog Farmers
Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman announced steps to slow the slide in hog prices and offered farmers hope for easier credit. A25
 
Octuplets' Father Stunned
Iyke Louis Udobi, the father of the world's only living octuplets, said that he was "stunned beyond belief" by the eight births. The six girls and two boys remained in critical condition, although doctors said seven of them could be off ventilators by next week. A14
 
Speed Limit is Overturned
The Montana Supreme Court has struck down the state's one-of-a-kind daytime speed limit -- written in law as whatever speed is "reasonable and proper" but widely interpreted as wide open -- prompting fears that the lack of even the vague limit will lead people to drive at breakneck speeds. A20
 
Suspect Left Suicide Note
An aircraft mechanic who committed suicide in California on Saturday, 10 days after killing his estranged wife and 2-year-old daughter, left a note that the toddler's death was an accident that made it impossible for him to live with himself. A21
 
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
8 Killed and 15 Injured In Bus Crash in New Jersey
A charter bus carrying people from Brooklyn to Atlantic City for a day of casino gambling spun around on the Garden State Parkway in New Jersey yesterday, slashed through a guardrail and plunged down an embankment. Eight people were killed and 15 were injured. A1
 
Fireproofing Systems Foiled
Buildings that were designed to save lives in the event of a fire turned instead into death traps twice in the past week, when human error foiled the fireproofing systems that were meant to contain flames, smoke, heat and toxic gases. B1
 
Three Charged in Theft
Two former owners of a Federally subsidized housing complex in Brooklyn and one of their employees were arrested and charged with stealing more than $2 million in Federal money that was intended for the project's maintenance. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
WEEKEND E1-38; E39-48
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B10
 
Emilio Fermin Mignone
Argentina's best-known campaigner for human rights, and the founder of the Center for Legal and Social Studies, he was 76. B10
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: The moment that matters; Mr. DeLay goes out of bounds; cleaning up after the Pentagon; confusion over the Puerto Rican vote.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-15
 
Economic Expansion Continues
Incomes surged and personal savings grew last month and jobless claims fell last week to their lowest level in more than a year. Those signs, along with the stock market, which approaches year's end at near-record levels, point to continued economic expansion, economists said. C1
 
Looking Forward to the Euro
Many Europeans are eager to use the euro -- the common currency coming to 11 countries -- and expect to see benefits in cost and efficiency in travel and personal finance. C1
 
Health Account Spending Spree
Millions of Americans use Flexible Spending Accounts, tax-free money set aside by employers for health care expenses not covered by insurance. But consumers' efforts to deplete the accounts by year's end can lead to a spending binge on goods and services people do not need. A1
 
Mixed Closing for Stocks
The stock market ended with mixed results in the slowest trading this year. The Dow was up 15.96 points to 9,217.99, the S. & P. 500 fell 2.27 to 1,226.27 and the Nasdaq dropped 9.51 to 2,163.03. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
Crossword E45
Weather D4
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); HOLY SEE (51%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FRONT (70%); AIR FORCE CITES (69%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FRONT (70%); AIR FORCE CITES (69%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); HOLY SEE (51%); OREGON, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (84%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ARMIES (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); HURRICANES (71%); MILLENNIUM (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (85%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



555 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: 4-DAY COLD SPELL SLAMS CALIFORNIA; CROPS DEVASTATED

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 24

 BODY:
A brutal four-day freeze has destroyed more than a third of California's annual citrus crop, inflicting upwards of a half-billion dollars in damage and raising the prospect of tripled orange prices in supermarkets by next week.
Throughout the Golden State, cold, dry air from the Gulf of Alaska sent temperatures below freezing beginning Monday, with readings in the high teens and low 20's in the agriculturally rich Central Valley early today -- the worst cold spell since a 10-day freeze in 1990. Farmers frantically ran wind and irrigation machines overnight in an effort to keep trees warm, but officials pronounced the lemon crop a near total loss in the valley, and said perhaps half of the state's orange crop was lost as well. 
 "This should be a time of joy, but it's been a bitter disappointment," Bob Krauter, a spokesman for the California Farm Bureau in Sacramento, the state's largest agricultural organization, said of the Christmas-week freeze. "We've had more than our share of challenges from Mother Nature this year, with El Nino early on bringing excessive moisture and cold weather that delayed planting and increased pest infestation and disease problems."
Indeed, agriculture officials said, the late planting meant that more of the state's navel orange crop remained on trees than usual this week and thus susceptible to freezing. California grows about 80 percent of the nation's oranges eaten as fruit, and 90 percent of the lemons, and wholesalers said the retail prices of oranges could triple in the next few days. The price of lemons was certain to rise as well, but the price of orange juice should be less affected because most juice oranges are grown in Florida.
In some California markets, wholesalers reported that the price of navel oranges had increased to 90 cents a pound on Wednesday from 35 cents a pound on Tuesday.
The citrus industry accounts for well over $1 billion of the state's $27-billion agricultural output. But from the Central Coast to the inland desert Imperial Valley, the cold also threatened crops from avocados to strawberries and celery.
The freeze hit especially hard in the towns up and down the San Joaquin Valley, which took years to recover from the last big freeze and where some counties already have unemployment rates of upwards of 15 percent, three times the national average. Officials are preparing to seek state and Federal disaster aid.
"In a nutshell, it was way too cold for way too long," said Gary Kunkel, assistant agriculture commissioner in Tulare County, which has 100,000 acres of orange groves -- about half the state's production -- and estimated today that 85 percent of the citrus crop remaining on trees was already lost, about $370 million of its $500 million annual total.
"We've had some places below 25 degrees for 13 or 14 hours at a time," Mr. Kunkel added. "Imagine watching somebody just tear up your annual paycheck right in front of your eyes."
When oranges suffer a hard freeze, the juice sacs inside crystallize and burst through the membranes. When the flesh thaws, the juice seeps out and evaporates through the skin, leaving the insides dry and inedible.
Because of El Nino-related planting delays and poor pollination caused by excess moisture, the California citrus crop was already expected to be about 20 percent below last year's, said Keith Collins, chief economist for the United States Department of Agriculture. "We were already on track to have a much reduced crop," Mr. Collins said.
Today's weather, meanwhile, wreaked havoc elsewhere in the country, especially in the South, where ice-laden tree limbs snapped power lines, The Association Press reported. About 315,000 customers were reported without power in Virginia, along with 106,000 in North Carolina, 128,000 in Louisiana, 112,000 in Tennessee, 125,200 in Mississippi, and 11,000 in Arkansas.
The freeze capped a year of weather-related calamities in the nation that produced mixed results for the agriculture industry. The moist El Nino conditions led to record yields on winter wheat in Texas and the Plains states and record summer heat and drought caused declines in cotton, cattle and other crops and commodities from California to Texas, New Mexico and Louisiana.
In Florida, continued warm weather and drought have resulted in sharply lower citrus crop forecasts. State officials said more rain and cold weather were needed for a larger crop. The Florida Department of Citrus estimates that this year's harvest will produce 190 million boxes of oranges, down from last year's record harvest of 244 million boxes.
Last summer, fires and drought in Central Florida caused an estimated $150 million in damage to crops and destroyed $400 million in timber.
"What's particularly curious, even stunning, about this year, is that for all the weather turmoil we still wound up with many near-record crop yields," in corn and soybeans in states like Illinois, Indiana and Iowa, Mr. Collins said.
But the high yields also produced low prices for many crops and, together with the weather-related damage in selected areas, led to passage of the biggest agricultural relief measure in the nation's history, $5.7 billion, Mr. Collins said.
Darwin Smith, an orange-grower in Orland, 90 miles north of Sacramento, knows that stress first-hand. He expects to lose his entire 75-acre crop this year, which would have brought him $50,000. He and other farmers who formed a packing plant will have to lay off about 40 workers.
"I think at this point right now, the chances of anything being harvestable are just about nil," Mr. Smith said. "We'll know better when we go in next week and start cutting fruit, but at this point, if there was anything salvageable, I'd be shocked."
This is the second time Mr. Smith has lost his entire crop to a freeze in his 13 years of farming, and the Federal crop insurance he buys will cover only about half his expected loss. His family will have to rely on income from his wife's job and a part-time job he works in the summers, but he dismissed any suggestion of leaving farming.
"You've got to realize that growing oranges is always going to be a risk," Mr. Smith said.
In Lindsay, the LoBue Bros. packing plant, Tulare County's largest employer, laid off 450 of its 500 employees on Wednesday, and company officials said it could be two weeks before they know whether they would need their usual crew of pickers and packers for oranges.
"Four hundred and fifty people are not going to show up on Monday, they're not going to get paid, they're not coming to work," said Joe LoBue, the company's marketing director. "And we don't know when they will come back. If in fact these people don't go back to work for a long period of time, it starts to affect the whole economy of the county here. In 1990, you had a lot of people that showed up at food banks, a lot of people who ended up on welfare, a lot of people who couldn't get jobs."
Robert Ward, a citrus farmer in Exeter, about halfway between Los Angeles and San Francisco in the San Joaquin Valley, was up at 4 A.M. today, checking water pumps and wind machines designed to raise the temperature on his 250 acres. Damp soil is less susceptible to freezing and wind machines circulate any warmer air currents that may be aloft. Despite the efforts, Mr. Ward said the damage was severe.
"It's the only way of life I know," he said. "I'm 60 years old and it's too late to start over. I don't know what else I'd do."
He added: "We'll make it. It's going to get tight around here. We're not going to upgrade any new equipment. We're just going to get by as best we can, and see what happens next season."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Icicles formed this week on trees in an orange grove in the Central Valley in California during a cold spell that left farmers frantically running wind and irrigation machines overnight in an effort to keep trees warm. (By Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 
Map: "Winter's Freezing Grip" shows U.S. areas below freezing on Sunday, Tuesday, and yesterday mornings. (Source: Pennsylvania State University Meteorology Dept.)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN JOAQUIN HELICOPTERS (51%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CITRUS FRUITS; WEATHER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES CITRUS GROVES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ORANGE GROVES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); EL NINO & LA NINA (76%); CHRISTMAS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); METEOROLOGY (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); DESERTS (50%); DISASTER RELIEF (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998



556 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Taking On Pakistan's Hero, Then Taking the Heat

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER 

 BODY:
At first glance, Ayesha Jalal seems like an unlikely agitator. She is a tiny, angular woman whose small frame is accentuated by her flowing beige shalwar kameez, a traditional Pakistani outfit consisting of a loose tunic and baggy trousers. Her scholarly credentials -- Wellesley, Oxford, Harvard -- are purebred establishment.
But in recent years, Ms. Jalal has taken on the academic and political mainstream in her native Pakistan as well as the administration of Columbia University, where she taught history for seven years. And while her historical work on South Asia has elicited anonymous threats, it also brought her a MacArthur Fellowship (commonly called the genius grant) this year, worth $265,000, no strings attached, and a reputation as one of the most innovative scholars in the history of the region. 
 What has angered so many Muslims here and in her homeland is Ms. Jalal's assertion that the revered founding father of Pakistan, the slender, eloquent Mohammed Ali Jinnah, had feet of clay. She argues that the 1947 partitioning of India -- the event that opened the door for the creation of Pakistan -- was an accident, a colossal miscalculation. What's more, she says that Jinnah never wanted a separate Muslim state; he was only using the threat of independence as a political bargaining chip to strengthen the voice of the Muslim minority in the soon-to-be sovereign India.
For proof, she maintains, one need look no further than Jinnah's reaction to the partition. Today's officially sanctioned "nationalist attitude seems to suggest that what Mr. Jinnah had dismissed as a mutilated, moth-eaten Pakistan is what they were actually fighting for," Ms. Jalal, 42, said in a recent interview, explaining that Jinnah twice rejected what turned out to be the final model for Pakistan.
This is heresy to most Pakistanis, for whom the partition is a point of pride, a landmark historical event comparable to the declaration of the state of Israel for Zionists. And to many Pakistanis, the individual most responsible for the partition is nothing less than a Muslim paladin. "It's as though you're telling Americans that George Washington wasn't a starry-eyed nationalist but a coldblooded, opportunistic militarist," remarked David Ludden, an associate professor of South Asian history at the University of Pennsylvania.
India scholars around the world have found Ms. Jalal's work no less provocative. "In Pakistani terms, she takes a very pro-Indian perspective, but in Indian terms, she's still a Pakistani," said David Washbrook, a professor of modern South Asian history at Oxford University.
What may be most unusual about Ms. Jalal is that she studies Pakistan at all. There are only a handful of scholars of Pakistan in the United States; most South Asian specialists here focus on the country's considerably larger neighbor, India. And to hear Ms. Jalal tell it, the state of Pakistani history in Pakistan is no better. The country did not even have a free press until the late 1980's, and four decades of military rule have left a legacy of media self-censorship. The country's liberal arts colleges are controlled by the central Government.
"Tragic" is one of the words Ms. Jalal uses to describe the fate of historical scholarship in her homeland. "There just aren't many Pakistanis who are historians," she said. "They're not interested in history, they're interested in projecting an ideological position."
Her three books, starting with "The Sole Spokesman: Jinnah, the Muslim League and the Demand for Pakistan" in 1985, have been credited by scholars of South Asia with breaking new ground. "She is the foremost historian of modern Pakistan," Mr. Washbrook said.
Still, her view of Jinnah and the partition is hardly conventional. In his biography of Jinnah, Stanley Wolpert, a professor of South Asian history at the University of California at Los Angeles, painted a different picture of the partition, ascribing Jinnah's zealous quest for Pakistani independence partly to a religious metamorphosis toward the end of his life. Mr. Wolpert's perspective conforms much more closely to that of the traditional Pakistani narrative. Indeed, when "The Sole Spokesman" was published, several Pakistani newspapers assailed Ms. Jalal for understating the role of religion in Jinnah's push for partition and accused her of being under the sway of an Indian academic adviser.
Ms. Jalal is teaching at Harvard University this year after a bitter fight with Columbia. At Columbia, she says, enrollment in her South Asian history courses doubled from 1991 to 1995, but she was denied tenure in June 1995. Arguing that that a cadre of Indian and India-centric faculty members who objected to a Pakistani woman teaching Indian history had effectively blocked her tenure application, she sued the university the next year, alleging religious and ethnic discrimination. Columbia denied her contention, and last spring a federal judge in New York's Southern District dismissed the case, finding the evidence of bias "thin" though "suggestive."
While pursuing her claim against Columbia, Ms. Jalal was selected for a new chair in modern South Asian history at Brown University. But after winning the approval of the history department and a tenure review committee, she said, she was rejected by Brown's administration.
So come June, Ms. Jalal may find herself unemployed. She plans to stay in the United States, where she first arrived in 1970, when her father, a lifelong civil servant, was posted to the United Nations in Manhattan. When the family returned to Pakistan two years later, Ms. Jalal, then 16, finished her studies at the American high school in Islamabad, the capital. She spent much of her senior year in Pakistan trying to persuade her mother to allow her to return to the United States for college. "At that time, it was very unusual for Pakistani women to come to America to study," she said. "The vast majority of women in Pakistan don't take to reading." But when Wellesley College offered her a full scholarship, she finally convinced her mother to let her go.
From Wellesley, she went on to pursue a Ph.D. in South Asian history at Cambridge University, where she wrote the dissertation that would provide the foundation for "The Sole Spokesman." That the scholar who set out to puncture the iconic grandeur of Jinnah was a woman played no small role in the book's chilly reception in Pakistan. "There is still a great deal of resentment there about that," she said.
Ms. Jalal credits her father with inspiring her to rethink the partition. As a child, she would listen raptly as he reminisced about Muslim friends who had been left behind in India, which is home to some 120 million Muslims, roughly as many as in Pakistan. If the division of British India and the creation of the Muslim state of Pakistan were really events for Pakistanis to celebrate, her father wondered, why were so many Muslims, including many of his dearest friends, stuck in predominantly Hindu India?
Jinnah's "Pakistan had to remain part of a larger all-India whole in order to raise some safeguards for Muslims in the minority areas or those who would invariably be left in India," said Ms. Jalal, who studied the Koran in Arabic as a child and characterizes herself as a secular Muslim with a religiously informed identity.
Jinnah died of tuberculosis and lung cancer only a few days after the first anniversary of independence, leaving a leadership vacuum in Pakistan that is often blamed for many of the country's subsequent political and financial problems. To Ms. Jalal, though, most of those problems can be traced directly to the partition.
The proximity to India, she argues, has put Pakistan in the untenable position of trying to square its considerable security costs with its limited economic resources, an imbalance that has in turn taken a toll on the nation's democratic process. Years ago a Pakistani Prime Minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, predicted that if India got the bomb, Pakistan would too, "even if we have to eat grass." He wasn't far off. With the sanctions imposed on Pakistan after the recent nuclear blasts, the flow of international capital into the country has slowed. It now stands on the brink of bankruptcy, unable to pay the reservicing costs on some $26 billion in external debt incurred largely for military purposes.
"The country has paid a hefty price to fend off India," Ms. Jalal said, "and the price has been Pakistan's democracy."
Her 1995 book, "Democracy and Authoritarianism in South Asia," also irked partisans of India and Bangladesh, the Muslim nation that splintered off from Pakistan in a civil war in 1971. In the book, she argued that military nationalism had undermined democracy not just in the two Muslim countries but also in India, generally considered the world's most populous democracy. Indeed, many Indians are now concerned that the Hindu nationalist Government run by the Bharatiya Janata party is a threat to traditional democratic rights.
Nonetheless, some scholars of India have criticized Ms. Jalal for underestimating India's representative government. "The comparison makes me uncomfortable," said Francine Frankel, director of the Center for the Advanced Study of India at the University of Pennsylvania. "I do feel that India has accomplished what Pakistan could not accomplish through an authoritarian system: it has brought politics to the majority of impoverished humanity."
Ms. Jalal remains unmoved: "Either you're giving a Pakistani line or you're giving an Indian line, which I think is very problematic in an academic environment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ayesha Jalal is a scholar of South Asia. (Columbia University)(pg. B7); Mohammed Ali Jinnah as leader of the newly formed Pakistan in 1947. (The New York Times)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; INDIA; PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY; ISLAM; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HISTORY (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); 

PERSON: MAHLER, JONATHAN; JINNAH, MOHAMMED ALI (1876-1948); JALAL, AYESHA MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



557 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Ending a Year to Remember

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The chief executive of Texaco Inc., Peter I. Bijur, broke with tradition at the company's annual meeting with analysts in early December.
In years past, Mr. Bijur made a five-year forecast for the oil industry. This time, he would not look beyond 1999. 
 "It would be ludicrous," Mr. Bijur said.
He is not the only oil executive who has lost confidence in his ability to see the future. Even in an industry accustomed to rapid shifts of fortune, the pace of change in 1998 has been extraordinary.
Oil prices averaged $13.13 a barrel in the fourth quarter, down 34 percent from a year earlier. The biggest United States oil companies are expected to post earnings declines of 32 percent to 90 percent for the quarter.
" 'Blood bath' may be an understatement," said Douglas Terreson, senior oil analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Houston.
A year ago, the country's three largest oil companies were getting ready to report the biggest quarterly profits in their history. Oil prices averaged $19.94 a barrel then, well above the $14 most companies calculated as a break-even point.
No one predicted oil prices would fall to their lowest inflation-adjusted levels in 49 years -- and stay there. Or that the Exxon Corporation would reach an accord to buy the Mobil Corporation for $80 billion, with the companies saying they needed to combine to keep profits growing in a harsher business climate.
Exxon, the largest oil company in the United States, and Mobil, the second-largest, are expected to report declines in fourth-quarter profit of 32 percent and 43 percent, respectively, based on the average estimates of analysts polled by the First Call Corporation. Earnings for Texaco, the third-largest oil company, are expected to drop 60 percent. The Atlantic Richfield Company is expected to post an earnings plunge of 90 percent.
It will be the fourth consecutive quarter of declining profits for the major oil producers, which are consolidating to cut costs and amass the resources needed to continue the expensive business of finding oil.
Exxon's acquisition of Mobil will create a company bigger than the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, which is now the world's largest oil company. The merger announcement, made at the start of December, followed an announcement in August that the British Petroleum Company would buy the Amoco Corporation for $48 billion.
In the last few months, crude oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange sank to their lowest average since trading began 15 years ago. The Asian recession slashed demand, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries did not cut enough output to end a glut of oil, and warm weather kept heating-oil consumption low.
On Wednesday, the Chevron Corporation said it was buying the Rutherford-Moran Oil Corporation for $91 million in stock, plus $302 million in assumed debt, to enter the natural-gas market in Thailand. Rutherford-Moran said last month that it expected to exhaust its cash and bank credit and was in talks to be acquired.
Earnings of smaller oil-exploration companies will virtually disappear in the fourth quarter, since their fortunes are more directly tied to the price of oil than those of the big companies, which also sell chemicals and gasoline. According to First Call, analysts expect the earnings of the smaller companies to fall an average of 88 percent.
With oil prices projected to stay low, companies are dismissing employees and cutting the spending that is crucial to finding the oil they will sell in the future.
The companies "are stepping onto a slippery slope," where spending cuts will lead to lower production and lower profit, which in turn will prompt more spending cuts, said Fadel Gheit, director of research at Fahnestock & Company.
Exxon and Mobil expect to dismiss at least 9,000 employees as part of their merger, while British Petroleum and Amoco plan to shed 6,000 jobs. Shell said earlier this month that it planned job cuts beyond the 4,000 it had already announced.
The large, integrated companies can sometimes cushion the blow of falling crude oil prices with better returns from their refining, gas-station and chemicals businesses. But that has not happened in the fourth quarter.
According to an analysis by BT Alex Brown, oil companies' refining and fuel-sales earnings will fall about 25 percent from the fourth quarter of 1997.
The Valero Energy Corporation and the Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corporation, two of the country's largest independent oil refiners, have warned that fourth-quarter profits will not meet expectations because of low prices for gasoline and other fuels made from crude oil.
Results from chemicals, which generate as much as 10 percent to 15 percent of total revenue for Exxon, Amoco and some other companies, are also expected to be weak because worldwide overproduction and a drop in Asian demand have pushed prices lower.
Prices for petrochemicals, the basic chemicals used to make other chemicals and plastics, have dropped. Polyethylene, which is widely used in plastic packaging, is now priced at about 31 cents a pound, down 25 percent from last year, analysts said.
Oil shares have been depressed, and investors who think that oil prices will rise and lift stocks with them must be patient, analysts said.
Michael Hoover, energy analyst at the U.S. Trust Company in New York, said that "an owner of oil stocks has to have a 12- to 18-month outlook" because of the likelihood low oil prices will persist, "and concentrate on major international companies," where dividends prop up returns in lean times.
Major oil companies like Exxon and Texaco have the financial strength not only to survive a prolonged period of low oil prices but also to emerge stronger because of cost-cutting and consolidation, analysts said.
"If you look at stocks that are depressed because of low crude oil price expectations, you are going to make money on them if they have the staying power to last a year or two," said Rosario Ilacqua, vice president and senior oil analyst with Rothschild Inc. in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%); BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); XOM (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); MOBIL CORP; EXXON CORP; TEXACO INC CHEVRON CORP (93%); BP PLC (85%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); MOBIL CORP (67%); FIRST CALL CORP (65%); AMOCO CORP (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); MOBIL CORP; EXXON CORP; TEXACO INC ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WEATHER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (83%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); RECESSION (75%); CONSUMPTION (72%); MERGERS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (64%); GASOLINE MARKETS (63%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BIJUR, PETER I PETER I BIJUR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



558 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Some Big Airlines to Post Lower Earnings

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
By mid-December, Jan Durbahn, a travel agent in Rochester, Minn., had not sold a single ski-trip package since the season began. Her customers were not flocking to Florida at their usual clip, either.
"People have to have some snow and cold to get psyched" for travel, she said, attributing the slowness to the region's weather, which until recently was unusually mild. 
 For the nation's major airlines, the warm weather came on top of competition from discount carriers, a reduction in corporate travel budgets and an increase in the number of seats they had to fill. As a result, several airlines, including United Airlines, a unit of the UAL Corporation, U S Airways Group and Continental Airlines, are expected to report lower earnings for the fourth quarter.
At the same time, though, the industry is benefiting from a decline in the price of fuel, which is the airlines' second-biggest cost, after labor. The average fuel price fell about 28 percent during the quarter from the same period a year ago, to about 33 cents a gallon.
"We're going to see some softness on the revenue side, but that's going to be made up by some large-scale benefits on fuel prices," Julius Maldutis, an analyst at CIBC Oppenheimer, said about the industry's performance in the quarter.
The industry saves a total of about $180 million for every penny decline in the price of fuel. The airlines are expected to save a total of about $2 billion on fuel this year, and their earnings are expected to rise about 4 percent, to $5.4 billion from about $5.2 billion in 1997, according to the Air Transport Association.
"One of the big features of the profit improvement has been the carriers not passing through the reductions in fuel prices" to their customers, said John Walsh, an industry consultant.
Most carriers will also record savings from a reduction in the commissions they pay travel agents for booking flights. In the fourth quarter, UAL led other airlines in capping at $100 the commission for each round-trip international flight, a change from the previous policy of paying an 8 percent commission.
The lower costs helped airlines' earnings in the fourth quarter even as their revenue from domestic service, which until now had been insulated from international weakness, fell because of declining fares.
United Airlines, which is based in Chicago and is the largest carrier in the country, is expected to report that profit fell to $1.64 a share in the quarter from $1.74 a year ago, based on the average estimate of analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation. The analysts' estimates ranged from $1.55 to $1.80 a share.
American Airlines, the second-largest airline, recently told analysts that per-passenger revenue had been less than expected. Revenue fell short because American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, matched discount fares offered by the Northwest Airlines Corporation, Trans World Airlines and America West Airlines, a unit of the America West Holding Corporation.
"Management has miscalculated and offered too many discounts," CIBC's Mr. Maldutis said about the industry over all.
AMR, based in Fort Worth, is expected to earn $1.18 a share in the quarter, according to First Call, up from $1.09 in the 1997 fourth quarter.
Many corporations have trimmed travel budgets this year, especially as concern mounted about an economic slowdown in the United States. That hurt airlines because last-minute business fares, which are much more expensive than advance tickets, can account for as much as 70 percent of the carriers' revenue.
Brian Harris, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said: "In October, business travelers took advantage of the Northwest fare sale and decided they'd put up with the inconvenience of a Saturday-night stay."
American Express Travel Related Services, a unit of the American Express Company that is the country's largest travel agency, reported this month that although typical business fares in October were 4 percent higher than in the same month a year ago, corporate travelers were able to bring down the average fare they paid by 2 percent.
Low-cost carriers including the Southwest Airlines Company are also pushing down fares, said Bob Gallo of the Airline Planning Group in Alexandria, Va. Southwest, based in Dallas, has been offering coast-to-coast round-trip fares at a sale price of $198, said Tom Parsons, editor of Bestfares.Com, a World Wide Web site that sells airline tickets.
In addition, Northwest had held back industrywide fare increases by refusing to go along with other airlines, which eventually revoked the increases.
Northwest, of St. Paul, had said it would report losses for the fourth quarter and the full year as a result of a two-week strike by pilots that shut down the airline in September. Analysts polled by First Call expect a loss of $1.20 a share for the quarter, in contrast to profit of $1.06 a year ago.
The fare bargains are important to help the airlines fill more planes. While airlines' passenger traffic rose 3 percent in October and November, their seating capacity increased 2.5 percent because they took delivery of new planes.
Some carriers, including American and United, planned to scale back their growth plans for next year, while others, including Continental, U S Airways and Southwest, are preparing for capacity growth of 8 percent or more in 1999.
Airline stocks have dropped because of investor concern that growing capacity and sluggish travel demand, spurred by economic slowdowns worldwide, might result in more empty seats.
Weak Asian travel will drag down revenue at Northwest and United, the two largest American carriers in that region. Still, the worst may be over, said Scott Gibson of the Economic Strategy Institute. Faltering revenue in Latin America has also become more stable for the moment, Mr. Gibson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); FIRST CALL CORP (60%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); CIBC OPPENHEIMER (54%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); WEATHER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SKIING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



559 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Town-Tycoon Politics Snarl $1 Billion Plan in Hong Kong

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Even in Hong Kong, a place where business and politics rarely fail to mix, Li Ka-shing's comments came as a shock.
Mr. Li, the billionaire tycoon who controls Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., one of the city's biggest developers, and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. the city's largest employer outside of the Government, threatened this week to scrap a planned project in Hong Kong because of the "political environment." 
 "We always prefer to invest in Hong Kong while the economy is doing badly," he told reporters on Tuesday. "But in such a political environment," his companies "prefer to do a bit less."
He did not identify the project beyond saying that it was a joint-venture development with "good connections" to Cheung Kong and had a value of $10 billion (Hong Kong), or $1.3 billion (United States). He also declined to point fingers at any particular politicians.
Cheung Kong, however, has sued a member of one group, the Democratic Party, for libel. Analysts said this week that Mr. Li was referring to Albert Chan, the legislator named in the suit.
Cheung Kong went to court after Mr. Chan criticized the company's decision to sue people who had defaulted on apartments they had agreed to buy. The company said it was simply enforcing the contracts.
Reflecting investor nervousness about Mr. Li's comments, Cheung Kong's shares fell 1.7 percent on Wednesday and Hutchison's fell 3.6 percent. But both stocks reclaimed most of those losses on Thursday, the last day of trading before the Christmas holiday.
Hong Kong is mired in its worst recession in a generation, and Mr. Li's warning raised some concerns. Mr. Li is playing "a dangerous game," said Peter Churchouse, a managing director of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.
"There is a sense in this town that the tycoons have had it all their own way for some time," Mr. Churchouse said. "It's dangerous because at the end of the day, the property developers rely on the Government for their business."
No matter how many protests they make, Hong Kong's tycoons will eventually lose some of their political power, executives and analysts said this week.
"Businessmen won't be able to turn the political clock back, no matter how much they might want to," said Mike Moir, an executive at Swire Pacific Ltd., one of Hong Kong's biggest companies. "Politicians and businessmen are just going to have to learn to live with each other."
Only one-third of the members of Hong Kong's legislature -- which plays second fiddle to a powerful executive -- are chosen by the public in direct elections. But that number will rise to one-half in 2000, and further democratization steps are planned. Studies show that Hong Kong residents increasingly view elected politicians as legitimate representatives of their interests.
Of course, if Hong Kong's major businesses lose some political power, it could mean less money for them. Executives of the big businesses see a threat from opposition politicians who would like to open Hong Kong's market to greater competition.
Richard Margolis, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company in Hong Kong, said, "While Hong Kong companies which compete in the external environment -- exporting goods to the rest of the world -- are very competitive, those providing goods and services within Hong Kong are often cartelized." He cited the real estate, banking and supermarket sectors, where a limited number of competitors split the market, keeping prices and profit margins high.
Also this week, Cheung Kong said Mr. Li would hand day-to-day control of his businesses to his son Victor Li, 34, on Jan. 1. The change had been expected, since Victor, the elder of Mr. Li's two sons -- his only children -- had long been groomed for the top job at Cheung Kong and Hutchison.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Li Ka-shing threatened to cancel a building project because of Hong Kong's "political environment." (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 0001 (HKSE) (96%); 0013 (HKSE) (91%); SWI (FRA) (84%); 0019 (HKSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (96%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEUNG KONG (HOLDINGS) LTD; HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD CHEUNG KONG (HOLDINGS) LTD (96%); HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD (91%); SWIRE PACIFIC LTD (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEUNG KONG (HOLDINGS) LTD; HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; HONG KONG (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; HOUSING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CHRISTMAS (67%); 

PERSON: LI KA-SHING; CHAN, ALBERT; CHURCHOUSE, PETER LI KA-SHING (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



560 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Families Mix Vacations And Holidays To Build Ties

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
The holidays are a time for family gatherings, but as many families are discovering, togetherness at Christmas does not have to be confined to the home. In fact, because they are determined to preserve family ties, a growing number of Americans can be found huddling around Christmas trees in the lobbies of distant hotels, or on cruise ships sailing the Caribbean.
To be sure, the bright lights and holiday decorations in cities like New York, Boston and Chicago have long lured vacationers at Christmas time. But now hundreds of smaller cities are also eagerly trying to lure tourist dollars, and hotels are seeking to fill rooms during what has traditionally been a slow season by assembling packages tied to Christmas travel. 
 Similarly, many families have long celebrated the holidays on ski trails or palm-fringed beaches, especially families with both cash and time on their hands. But these days, those of modest means and tight schedules are also vacationing during the holiday period from Hanukkah through New Year's, not to be alone but to spend time with older children, parents or grandparents. This holiday season, cruise bookings are up 15 percent over last year, to a record 218,000, while hotels nationwide report more guests -- and more families -- than ever.
"The last 18 years my wife and I spent Christmas at my daughter's house here in town," said Al Skrede, a retired National Weather Service meteorologist in Overland Park, Kan. This year, Mr. Skrede, a widower, is spending Christmas and seven other days in Hawaii with his daughter, Barbara Jenkins, her husband, Ralph, and their three daughters. "Everybody agreed there would be no Christmas presents," he said, "except for Hawaii itself."
Others travel but still manage to get home to gather around the living room tree. "This is about the only way all of us can spend time together as a family," said Stacey Williams of Maypearl, Tex., shortly after arriving in Carlsbad, N.M., a week ago. She was traveling with her husband, Larry, a welder, their two young sons, and her parents, Stanley and Pam Bates, also from Maypearl. They spent two days in Carlsbad, viewing its "Christmas on the Pecos River" celebration, before driving to Ski Cloudcroft, a resort near Alamogordo, N.M., then headed home in time for Christmas Day.
Julie and Don Carroll of Knoxville, Tenn., recently spent four days in Williamsburg, Va., with their two children. "We're combining shopping and Santa," said Mrs. Carroll, who managed to take time off from the auto parts warehouse where she works. "And we want to show the kids a part of their history, now that they're old enough to be interested. That's why we don't feel guilty about taking them out of school."
Both the Williams and Carroll families are part of another trend -- shorter but more frequent vacations, a consequence of the rise of two-earner households, and the difficulty of coordinating schedules. And lots of industrial plants that once shut down to retool, giving workers time to plan a week or two of vacation well in advance, no longer employ so many people.
By all accounts, the time squeeze is not likely to get better. Last month a study for the business council of the World Tourism Organization, conducted in the United States and 17 other industrial nations that together represent 73 percent of the world's spending on tourism, found that economic pressures are likely to lead to a global decline in leisure time. "The effect of this squeeze on leisure time," a business council official said, "will be to accelerate the trend to shorter, more frequent holidays."
Smaller cities are vying for those holiday travelers. Each year, about a half-million people visit Carlsbad to explore parts of the 30-mile-long Carslbad Cavern, 75 stories below ground. But tourism essentially went into hibernation during the winter, until 1992, when the chamber of commerce came up with "Christmas on the Pecos," a celebration highlighted by cruises up the Pecos River on pontoon boats while viewing the Christmas lights of riverside residents.
During that monthlong event, 14,000 visitors -- an estimated 70 percent of them from out of town -- bought cruise tickets.
Williamsburg has been a popular Christmas destination for years. During their recent visit, the Carroll family stayed at the Days Inn Historic Area motel, not only because it is less expensive than Colonial Williamsburg, but also because the motel goes all out at Christmas, putting candles in all 120 rooms, wreaths on the door, Christmas trees in some rooms, lining the staircase with red poinsettias and stringing the property with 30,000 lights.
"It takes six to eight weeks to decorate it," said Nonie Kellogg, the manager, "but it pays off. Our Christmas occupancy has doubled in the past five years, and it pays off for our guests. Lots of them even bring their presents and have Christmas in our lobby, under the tree."
Another relative newcomer to the Christmas visitor sweepstakes is Leavenworth, Wash., a onetime logging town at the base of the Cascade mountains. When logging played out and Front Street was left with more than 100 boarded-up shops, the 2,200 residents transformed the town into a faux-Bavarian village.
Today it draws 1.1 million visitors a year, many of them for a monthlong Christmas celebration that includes lights, sleigh rides, handbell ringers, choirs and concerts. Retail and lodging taxes brought in almost $856,000 last year, $103,000 of that in December, compared with $478,000 in 1990.
Nine towns and villages in the Blackstone River Valley of Rhode Island banded together a dozen years ago to promote themselves as a region. Now the fastest-growing tourist destination in the state, its listing of Christmas events has grown from a four-page brochure to a 28-page newspaper insert. And a 103-year-old carousel in Pawtucket drew more than 3,000 riders on Dec. 5, the only day it was open after closing for the season in October.
Minden, a town of 3,000 residents in southern Kansas, bills itself as "The Christmas City."
"We've already had visitors this month from Colorado, Iowa and South Dakota," said Marvin Mangers, manager of the Pioneer Village there.
Like many other hotels, Denver's 103-year-old Brown Palace also has Christmas packages, going out of its way to accommodate families.
One such guest is Eda Brannan of Denver, who for years had Christmas dinner in her home for as many as 16 friends and relatives. But after the death six years ago of her husband, Charles, who had been Agriculture Secretary under President Truman, she said, "the dinner got too much for me."
Eager to remain in touch during the holidays, Mrs. Brannan started inviting nieces, nephews and friends for Christmas dinner at the Brown Palace. At least 10 were coming this year, including a couple from Montana. Gifts were to be opened under a Christmas tree in the hotel, followed by a traditional turkey dinner.
Mrs. Brannan does not deny that she is sometimes nostalgic for when she and her husband had Christmas at home, and she invariably topped off the meal with her own creme brulee, which Bess Truman raved about the time Mrs. Brannan invited her to lunch at the Brannans' Washington apartment.
But all in all, Mrs. Brannan said, "It's a wonderful way to spend Christmas with family and friends."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From right, Al Skrede, his daughter, Barbara Jenkins, her husband, Ralph, and their daughters Ashley Jenkins, Laurie Dower and Andi Dower of Overland Park, Kan., spend a holiday vacation in Hawaii. (Andrew Jacoby for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CHRISTMAS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE CHRISTMAS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CRUISES (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); HANUKKAH (73%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); METEOROLOGY (64%); TOURISM (56%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



561 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: A Family Finds Shelter And Fear on Skid Row

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
The shower for the older boys is available after dinner, and those few minutes under the falling water are the favorite part of William Foster's long day.
For when he gets out, dries himself off and strikes a muscle-man pose or two in front of the steamed-up mirror, William, a skinny 14-year-old, knows he can escape into sleep soon. Lights out at 10:30. 
 Maybe then his dreams will carry him away from where he lives with his mother, his little brother and sister, and on some nights with as many as 38 other children and their families in an emergency homeless shelter on Skid Row. Skid Row is a bottom-of-the-barrel district on the edge of downtown to which Los Angeles has consigned its derelicts and homeless and many of the agencies that serve them, where depression, despair and wasted human potential flow through the streets. It is a place no child should have to walk through, let alone live in.
There are not many shelters in Los Angeles where a family can stay together; even fewer will take in a boy like William, over age 13. On a typical night there might be 20 or 30 children among the crowds of single men and women at the mission.
"I didn't want to come here," William said recently. "I thought there would be just a bunch of dirty, nasty adults. But my mom said it wouldn't be so bad. She said there would be a lot of other kids around. She was right. There are a lot of kids."
Most of the hundreds who stay at Union Rescue every night are single adult men and women. But last year, Union Rescue provided beds for 10 to 12 children and their families, even though on crowded nights some families had to sleep on mats. This year the mission opened an expanded space for families.
William's 16-year-old brother, Steve, lasted one night at the mission before finding a spot on a friend's couch, a two-hour bus ride from the rest of his family.
"He said the neighborhood was hell on earth," William recalled. "Then he left."
Homeless families are typically headed by a single woman, like William's 37-year-old mother, Janice.
Mrs. Foster's nightmare of being homeless was set in motion last winter when she lost her welfare check and papers that she needed to stay on welfare. She quickly began to fall behind her rent, and in July she was evicted. At different times, various members of the family lived with friends or relatives, and for a few days they were all together in a hotel, but by August, Mrs. Foster said, she had no choice but Union Rescue.
Almost any time William leaves the security of the mission, holding on tightly to his little brother, Deon, 3, and his sister, Shayla, 4, and walking beside his mother, he can see men smoking crack in dank doorways or using other drugs.
Sometimes he has to step around people sleeping in boxes or under sheets of plastic, "like the stuff they throw over dead bodies."
The other day he smelled something funny. He looked around and saw that it was human waste splashed on a wall. He hurried Deon along and told him not to look.
"I feel it's my responsibility to protect my little brother and sister," he said. "I feel I got to be a man."
But he is not a man. He spent most of the other day playing with a green yo-yo, trying to master a "cat's cradle" and talking about how tough he was and how Skid Row did not scare him any, unless it was dark, and then "I'd probably be afraid."
Of the 151 programs in Los Angeles County that serve homeless families, 69 do not accept boys over 13, and 39 have even lower age cutoffs, said Ruth Schwartz, executive director of the nonprofit Shelter Partnership. Ms. Schwartz said that the county had 4,890 beds for families but that on any given night there were about 12,400 homeless family members, most of them children.
The sight of children on Skid Row has raised some eyebrows in social service agencies and some criticism of the mission.
"Women and children are being sent from all over Los Angeles to Skid Row, which is unconscionable," said Alice Callaghan, who runs an after-school program in the Skid Row neighborhood. "If you're going to serve homeless women and children, why would anyone put those services in Skid Row?"
And for years, any time a mother and her children showed up on the row, looking for a place to stay, social service workers moved quickly to relocate them as far away as possible.
The row, everyone agreed, was no place for children.
The people who run Union Rescue agree. Skid Row is an awful place, they say. But that is the point. What better place is there for a mission to be to help relieve suffering, what better place for a mission to open its doors to say welcome brothers and sisters and your children, even if they are 14-year-old boys?
"We have not created this need by opening the family shelter," said Marty Annette Hill, superintendent of the mission's women and family ministries. "The need was there and we are simply responding to it."
Most of the women and children stay at the mission only for a week or two.
The other day, William's friend David, 13, moved out of the mission with his family to a hotel for the homeless. William felt good for David and thought to himself, "I hope it's my turn next."
"A lot of kids accept being homeless," William said. "They act like it's no big deal. Not me. I don't feel I'll be living this life style much longer. It's too negative."
 But as long as he stays at the mission, William and his family can spend their mornings in the new "Mommy and Me" room on the fourth floor. It is a large playroom, full of toys, stuffed animals and the sound of gospel music.
"You don't know you're in Skid Row when you're in here," said Bridget Wilson, a supervisor at the mission. "You don't know the devastation right outside these walls."
But the room is only open for a few hours each day. The rest of the day, William and his family wander the streets, walking a dozen blocks to the library or a fast-food restaurant. They do not go to the nearby park, a gathering place for drug dealers and their customers.
William does not go to school, though he says he wants to be a marine biologist. When the family goes to the library, he tends to play computer games rather than read.
Sometimes, William catches a bus and returns to the family's old neighborhood in the Van Nuys section to spend a night or two with his aunt. He tries to recapture his old life, to pretend Skid Row is just a dream. He plays basketball or hits the streets to sell candy and coloring books as part of an anti-gang youth program.
But he returns to the mission to be with his mother and his little brother and sister, not just to protect them, but to be protected.
His mother stepped outside to talk with a friend in front of the mission recently and William did not know where she was. He panicked and almost cried when she walked back a few minutes later.
At night, after a long day of homelessness, William's mother listens to her children sleep on bunk beds in a room they share with other families. As she lies there in the dark, her mind is flooded with if-onlys.
"If only I could, I would have done things differently," she said. "I would have saved more money, but really I didn't have any money to save."
William listened quietly to his mother's if-onlys. He listened to her say that she felt terrible, that she felt she had let her children down and now the older ones were angry with her and that was breaking her heart even more than being homeless. Teen-agers, she said, do not adjust well to change. He heard her say that once she got back on her feet she was going to get two jobs and even though she might not have time to see her children as much, at least they would have economic security.
"I don't want to dwell on what happened," William said when his mother fell silent. "I just want us to get a place. I just want to go home."
 On Dec. 14, William and his family left Skid Row. With the help of Beyond Shelter, an organization that provides vouchers for homeless families to stay in hotels until they can be moved into permanent housing, the Fosters moved into The Deluxe Inn, several miles from the row.
 Still, Mrs. Foster said she had to return to Skid Row soon. Some of the missions, including Union Rescue, were giving away toys for Christmas. "It's going to be crowded down there," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Foster, playing with his yo-yo at an emergency shelter on Skid Row in Los Angeles, has had to grow up fast. At 14, he said, "I feel I got to be a man," keeping his siblings away from the addicts and derelicts. Above, he held the hand of his brother, Deon, 3. His mother, Janice, 37, held onto Shayla, 4. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNION RESCUE (LOS ANGELES MISSION)

ORGANIZATION: UNION RESCUE (LOS ANGELES MISSION)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (75%); EVICTION (74%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (74%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON BILL FOSTER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



562 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japanese Stocks Rise on Bond Market's Recovery

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Japanese stocks closed higher today for the first time this week as a rise in Government bonds lessened worries that bank profits would shrink further.
The world's other major financial markets were closed for Christmas. 
 In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 stocks rose 91.22 points, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 13,797.95. That left the benchmark index 10 percent below its level of a year earlier. The Topix index, which tracks all the issues traded on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, increased 8.78 points, or eight-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,082.96.
"We rose on the bond market's recovery and Wall Street's strong finish" on Thursday, said Mamoru Shimode, a strategist at Deutsche Securities Ltd. "But it's just a temporary rebound on very thin volume -- the trend still points down."
Some 227 million shares were traded, barely half the six-month daily average and the lightest volume in eight months. The holiday kept overseas investors away, and European financial companies have restricted trading to ease the way for the start of the euro, the common European currency, next month.
Japanese Government bond prices rose today. The benchmark bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell one-tenth of a percentage point, to 1.75 percent.
The bond market was lifted by the Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, who said on Thursday that the Government, which holds about a third of the Government bonds outstanding, would not liquidate its holdings.
Bonds fell earlier in the week after the Government said it would issue a record amount of new bonds in the coming fiscal year.
Banks use profits from bond trading, and the interest they earn on their bond holdings, to help write off bad loans. A glut of debt on the market would lower the value of their portfolios.
"The market's just regaining what it lost when people panicked about a bond market glut," Junji Naiki, general manager at the Chiyoda Mutual Life Insurance Company's securities investment department, said about today's trading. "But banks' profits on their bond holdings have disappeared, and that won't change anytime soon."
The Sakura Bank Ltd. was the most active issue on the stock market today, rising 14 yen, or 12 cents, to 270 yen.
In the economic background, the Government said today that Japan's unemployment rate rose to a postwar record of 4.4 percent in November from 4.3 percent in October, equaling the jobless rate in the United States for the first time. Industrial production fell 2 percent in November from October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (63%); CHIYODA MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (63%); TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; GOVERNMENT BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); EURO (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); 

PERSON: KIICHI MIYAZAWA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



563 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: THE NEW EUROPE -- Importing the Ways of Wall St.;
For Investment Firms, Euro Spells Opportunity

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
It has all the trappings of a gold rush: the lure of riches, the frisson of risk, the headlong dash to stake the claims.
The euro, Europe's single currency, makes its debut in just a week, creating a vast currency zone from the Arctic Circle to the Mediterranean. And to listen to the most optimistic of those seeking profit there, the currency's birth will unlock a mother lode of wealth that has set American investment banks competing to export more of Wall Street's ways to continental Europe. 
 While these great expectations may be overblown, there is no doubt that for investors and fund managers, the euro's arrival one week from now will mean an unparalleled transformation. Trading in 11 separate currencies will disappear, creating a single financial bloc with an economic output greater than that of the United States. Many financial specialists forecast profound changes in the way continental European markets operate -- and increasing pressure on Europeans to emulate the ways of Wall Street.
"There's this wall of money waiting to come into the market," said Jeremy Isaacs, head of European equity business at the Lehman Brothers office here. "Do I think European investors are going to become more like U.S. investors? The answer is: absolutely."
Of course, it is not as if continental European countries have been slouches in positioning themselves for the coming euro zone: Think only of megamergers like DaimlerChrysler, the Deutsche Bank takeover of Bankers Trust or the pharmaceutical fusion of Hoechst and Rhone-Poulenc.
And the world's economic spiral and low growth forecasts for Europe as a whole have muted some of the more bullish voices forecasting a euro bonanza. "I don't think you are going to have a revolution," Mr. Isaacs said.
"You are going to have an evolution," he said. "The question is when, not if."
Euro coins and notes will not be introduced for two more years, but all transactions between banks in the 11 participating countries and all operations involving equities and bonds will be denominated in euros starting next week. With only one currency in play, European companies will increasingly be evaluated by equity investors and fund managers across a broad field of competition where pricing and performance are no longer disguised by national currencies or local scales of importance.
The euro zone "redefines what is a blue chip," said David Bowers, European equity strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, arguing that, for instance, a company regarded as a heavyweight in one of the 11 countries would not necessarily make it into a euro index of top companies.
In addition, 11 separate government bond markets will be replaced by a single euro debt market in which the divergent yields of the past will be replaced by far more subtle calculations of razor-thin spreads between, say, euro-denominated bonds issued by Italy and euro bonds issued by Germany.
Cross-border acquisitions will be simplified by the euro, which will eliminate currency risk within the zone because it will have an immutable value against national currencies until they are phased out altogether in the year 2002.
Insurance companies in the 11 euro countries alone have around $1 trillion invested in their own governments' bonds, according to Crispin Southgate, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. Pension funds have a further $350 billion in the same bonds.
Both those amounts are set to mushroom as fund managers look for higher yields in the low-interest euro zone and strapped governments place an ever-larger part of the burden for pension provision on private citizens.
These prospects have sharpened competition among the big American investment banks that have their European headquarters here and see themselves as best placed to deploy expertise won in the United States. That has set alarm bells ringing for big European institutions, which have been scrambling to acquire some of the same skills -- and the same reach -- as the introduction of the euro nears.
"One of the things we have been seeing in the mergers in European banking groups is European banks trying to get the critical mass and the expertise to compete globally," said Madeleine Hall, a European fund manager at Schroders.
They have not always been successful. For all its size, the giant UBS A.G., born of Union Bank of Switzerland's merger with the Swiss Bank Corporation, lost out badly in this year's meltdown of emerging and speculative markets.
Still, big European banks such as Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ABN-Amro and Barclays are all hoping to translate strong local ties and cultural affiliations into thriving business. "These firms are pretty powerful in their own markets," said Robert Morris, a managing director at Barclay Capital. While American banks would seek to expand corporate bond and other business in Europe, he added, "it doesn't mean to say that they are quickly going to steal the market."
The competition is particularly fierce in the creation of new indices for bonds denominated in euros -- a dry-sounding business redolent of number-crunching that will still play a central role both in the evaluation of fund managers' performance in a changing market-place and, more gradually, in the way businesses raise money to finance their operations.
In the last year, American financial institutions including Morgan Stanley Capital International, Salomon Smith Barney, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Bear, Stearns and J. P. Morgan have devised eurobond indices in anticipation of a new, performance driven approach to investment in the 11 euro countries.
By contrast, only Barclays among the European banks has devised a similar index, and that one is narrowly based on government bond performance. In the last 18 months, the overall number of benchmarks has risen to 14 from two -- a proliferation some bankers view as excessive. Such has been the rush to new indices that 1998 has become known as the year of "the battle of the benchmarks."
The institutions offering benchmarks are hoping not only for the adoption of their indices as gauges for managers' performance but also for the business that comes with it. "What distinguishes one index provider from another is the reach of services," said Richard Pagan of Salomon Smith Barney.
Most of the new euro indices are now heavily weighted toward government bonds because corporate-bond issuance, though it has grown rapidly over the last year, is still only a fraction of the United States level.
Government bonds in Lehman Brothers' United States aggregate bond index, for example, take up 47 percent of the index while corporate debt accounts for 21 percent. The same bank's euro bond index is composed of 67 percent government and 12 percent corporate debt.
According to Anant Patel, a managing director at Bear, Stearns, the government bond market in the euro zone is currently worth some 2.25 trillion euros -- more than $2.6 trillion -- compared with a corporate bond market now valued at some 690 billion euros, roughly $800 billion.
The expectation among fund managers is that those proportions will change radically as continental European banks re-examine corporate loans and companies wean themselves away from reliance on banks for financing.
At present, said Merrill Lynch's Mr. Southgate, 90 percent of corporate financing in continental Europe is provided by bank loans, compared with 50 percent in the United States. By some estimates, fewer than 10 percent of continental Europe's 1,700 investment-grade companies -- many of them in Germany -- have issued public debt. That is set to change.
"European banks are looking more closely at how much money they make," said David Munves, credit market strategist at Lehman Brothers. "Corporate loans are coming under scrutiny, due to shareholder value in general."
"It's a major opportunity for new index providers," he said.
One indication of the likely shift toward corporate issuance is the prospect of stepped-up activity by ratings agencies -- still an unfamiliar concept to many European companies.
Eric de Bodard, managing director for corporate finance in Europe at Moody's Investor Services, said the number of European companies to which Moody's ratings had been assigned grew by 100 to more than 300 in 1998.
"All the signs point to at least as active a year" in 1999, he said. "Investors are going to be looking for more yield and are going to diversify their portfolios without foreign exchange risk."
Indeed, said Mr. Patel at Bear, Stearns, with the advent of a single currency for financial transactions, the nature of portfolio management will change.
"Traditionally in Europe, the way in which portfolio managers have been able to deliver performance is to take views on relative currency performance and the performance of spread relationships between markets," he said.
With the arrival of the euro, though, "the currency component will disappear, which was one of the biggest components," while interest rate spreads will shrivel. "And now all of a sudden, you ask the question: where do I get value enhancement?"
The result, he said, will be "a very new investment dynamic for Europe."
Banks see their indices playing into a European transformation whose precise course is still unclear and may, indeed, face many regulatory hurdles.
Many fund managers are hoping, for instance, that a boom in private pensions will introduce vast new sums to the market, as happened in Britain, whose pension fund industry is bigger than all of continental Europe's combined.
Against that, continental pensions are a ticking political time bomb. Many Europeans regard a comfortable state pension as an inalienable birthright and are uncomfortable with the notion of a private pension provision familiar to an increasing number of Americans. Moreover, European private pension funds, like European mutual funds, face regulatory restrictions.
On top of that, Russia's meltdown has dampened appetites for corporate bonds, particularly high-yield bonds. That has made some assessments more cautious. Corporate bonds, said Mr. Bowers at Merrill Lynch, will provide "one of the most exciting challenges that the euro will bring about." But this year's financial problems, he said, "have left people a little nervous about rushing into this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); RHONE-POULENC SA (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



564 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Investment Trusts Expect a Slower 4th Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The nation's real estate investment trusts are expected to report that earnings growth slowed to about 11 percent in the fourth quarter as slumping stock prices made it harder to finance property acquisitions.
"Growth from acquisitions and developments has definitely slowed, and that is starting to show up in earnings," said Glenn Mueller, head of real estate research at Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc. 
 The share prices of REIT's, as the trusts are known, have fallen this year because of concern about a slowing economy and a rise in construction. Unwilling to use their stock to finance acquisitions, REIT's bought $8.1 billion of property in the third quarter, down 39 percent from the second quarter and the lowest amount since the start of 1997, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. The figure for the fourth quarter will be even lower, analysts said.
Still, earnings will get some support from high occupancy rates and rising rents, particularly for offices and West Coast apartments. That is expected to cause quarterly profits to rise at least 20 percent at some REIT's, including Equity Office Properties Trust, Boston Properties Inc., the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation and the Apartment Investment and Management Company.
"The pace of leasing activity is still very good," said Christopher Marinac, a real estate analyst at the Robinson-Humphrey Company.
A high rate of acquisitions in 1997 and the first half of this year had kept REIT earnings increasing as much as 15 percent in recent quarters. In the third quarter, earnings rose an average 13 percent, according to Paine Webber Group. For 1999, analysts expect earnings to rise about 9 percent, the lowest this decade.
"We are taking down our '99 estimates in all cases," said David Sherman, head of real estate research at Salomon Smith Barney.
REIT's are companies that own all types of real estate, including shopping malls, apartments and even prisons. They are exempt from corporate income taxes if, among other things, they distribute at least 95 percent of net income to shareholders as dividends.
Office REIT's, the leaders in earnings for more than a year, are expected to lead the industry's earnings in the fourth quarter. Occupancy rates are less than 10 percent for the first time since the early 1980's, and rents are rising as much as 20 percent annually in some cities, including San Francisco, Boston and New York.
"On average, the office sector is still able to put up some strong rent growth numbers," said Mark Benson, an analyst at Jefferies & Company.
Apartment REIT's, as in past quarters, are expected to see rents grow only about 3 percent. An increase in construction activity has added new supply to the market.
The biggest apartment REIT's include Apartment Investment, Equity Residential Properties Trust and United Dominion Realty Trust.
Among the apartment REIT's, those on the West Coast, where tough zoning laws restrict new development, are expected to show the biggest earnings growth. Avalon Bay, BRE Properties Inc. and Archstone Communities Trust have large West Coast apartment holdings.
Mall and shopping center REIT earnings will depend on the outcome of the holiday sales season. In addition to base rents, these landlords are also entitled to part of their tenants' sales.
The biggest mall REIT's include Simon Property Group Inc., General Growth Properties Inc. and the Rouse Company. REIT's with large strip shopping-center holdings include the Kimco Realty Corporation, the Developers Diversified Realty Corporation and Federal Realty Investment Trust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIV (NYSE) (92%); BXP (NYSE) (68%); CLI (NYSE) (68%); EQR (NYSE) (60%); UDR (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); WEST USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS APARTMENT INVESTMENT & MANAGEMENT CO (92%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (72%); BOSTON PROPERTIES INC (68%); MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (68%); ROBINSON-HUMPHREY CO INC (67%); EQUITY RESIDENTIAL (60%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); UDR INC (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); WEST USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS INVESTMENT TRUSTS (98%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (98%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); RETAILERS (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



565 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

New Loan Losses Found At Japan's Largest Banks
Japan's 17 biggest banks had $427 billion in problem loans as of March, a Government audit has found -- 12 percent more than they had reported. The Financial Supervisory Agency said it had found 49.5 trillion yen, or $427 billion, in problem loans, 5.4 trillion yen more than the banks had calculated. 
 The biggest problem uncovered in the audit was that some banks applied more lenient write-off rules for loans to their financial affiliates than to other borrowers. Page C3.
 
Russian Oil Output Down Slightly
Russian oil production fell 1 percent this year, less than expected, as the ruble's plunge offset low world oil prices and provided producers with cash to maintain output, a Government official said. C2.
 
Nikkei Closes 91 Points Higher
Japanese stocks closed higher for the first time this week as a rise in Government bonds lessened worries that bank profits would shrink further. The world's other major financial markets were closed for Christmas. In Tokyo, the Nikkei average of 225 stocks rose 91.22 points, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 13,797.95. C3.

Airlines Expect Lower Earnings
Several major airlines, including the UAL Corporation's United Airlines, U S Airways Group and Continental Airlines, are expected to report lower earnings for the fourth quarter because of competition from discount carriers, a reduction in corporate travel budgets and an increase in the number of seats they had to fill. In addition, generally warm weather has reduced the number of people taking ski trips or vacationing in Florida. C4.
 
Oil Industry's Annus Horribilis
The oil industry has unexpectedly suffered through a year that some are calling a "blood bath." Oil prices averaged $13.13 in the fourth quarter, down 34 percent from a year earlier. The biggest American oil companies are expected to report earnings declines of between 32 percent and 90 percent for the quarter. C2.
 
Hitachi Signals Strategy Shift
Hitachi, Japan's largest electronics manufacturer, may have signaled an effort to quicken its decision-making process when it named a new president, Etsuhiko Shoyama. Unlike many previous presidents of Hitachi, Mr. Shoyama has worked extensively in audiovisual products and in the company's information and media businesses. C3.
 
Growth Slows at Real Estate Trusts
The nation's real estate investment trusts are expected to report that earnings growth slowed to about 11 percent in the fourth quarter as slumping stock prices made it harder to finance property acquisitions. The share prices of REIT's have fallen this year because of concern about a slowing economy and a rise in construction. C4.
 
Marketing Gimmicks in Hong Kong
The use of promotional gimmicks is mushrooming in Hong Kong as companies try to bolster depressed sales amid the territory's severe recession. The marketing efforts are especially strong in the most troubled areas of the economy, including real estate, retailing and telecommunications, where demand has been falling. C3.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Falling Expectations"
Despite the recent run-up in the stock market, corporate earnings expectations are falling faster than they have in the last five years. Following are the I.B.E.S estimates, at the beginning of December and as of Thursday, for earnings growth in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (85%); LCC (NYSE) (83%); UAL (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: HITACHI LTD (85%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (83%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AIRLINES (91%); AUDITS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); BONDS (68%); CHRISTMAS (67%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); SKIING (64%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (57%); 

PERSON: ETSUHIKO SHOYAMA (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



566 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Journal;
Holiday Prayer: Thanks for Survival

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Probably no priest or pastor outside Iraq opened a Christmas sermon today the way the Rev. Gabriel Marie did at the Church of Our Lady of Assumption here.
"Thanks be to God that we have survived the bombing," Father Marie told Catholic parishioners who filled his church to overflowing for two Masses this morning. 
 He went on to lament modern technology that allows warriors "to push a button on a computer and kill people," and said it was the duty of all Christians "to build a new world full of peace."
As Iraqi Christians gathered for Christmas services today, the sounds of the American and British bombing raids last week were still echoing in their heads. Their spiritual leaders used the occasion to remind them that, as Father Marie said, "no bomb is powerful enough to kill the spirit of Christianity."
Parishioners at Our Lady of Assumption joined loudly in singing hymns and listened attentively to Bible readings that told the age-old story of the Nativity.
As they were filing out into the midday sunshine, the choir of about 35 young people, evidently unable to restrain its exuberance, broke spontaneously into an Arabic-language version of "Jingle Bells." When it was finished, members of the choir hugged and kissed each other.
"Because of Christmas, I am very happy," said Anman George, 19, who was among the most enthusiastic singers. "We believe in Jesus, and that his spirit will prevail to resolve these difficulties. His teachings are the way to peace in this country."
Christians who attended Catholic and Protestant services in Baghdad today said in interviews that they live and worship freely here. The Chaldean Catholic community, by far the largest Christian denomination in Iraq, has roots in the earliest days of Christianity and is widely accepted as part of this country's spiritual heritage. Perhaps its most prominent member is Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz.
"Some Muslims with backward minds don't like Christians," said Wasan Wadia, 28, who attended a Catholic Mass with her family today. "But most of them, especially the more educated, are friendly to us or even envy us because our tradition is very open-minded. They like talking and mixing with us."
As recently as 20 years ago, Christians constituted nearly 10 percent of the Iraqi population. But many worked for foreign companies and began emigrating in the 1980's as the companies shut down after the outbreak of war with Iran. Today they make up about 6 percent of the country's 22 million people.
Iraq's Christian academies, run by Jesuits and Presbyterians from the United States, were shut down when the Government expelled most foreign missionaries in the late 1960's. Many young Christians now attend selected public schools where the history of Christianity is taught alongside that of Islam. Their community is known as highly educated and relatively prosperous.
Leaders of Christian denominations here have issued statements condemning last week's bombing and the economic sanctions that the United Nations imposed on Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait eight years ago. The bombing and sanctions are intended to force changes in the Iraqi Government and curb what the United States describes as Iraq's threat to neighboring countries.
As a sign of the friendly ties between the Government and Christian denominations here, the Minister of Religious Affairs, Abdul-Muneim Ahmed Saleh, visited several churches today. At the Baghdad National Presbyterian Church, founded by American missionaries in the 19th century, he told the parish council that Christians "are not a minority, but an integral part of our nation."
The Presbyterian pastor, the Rev. Ikram Ibrahim, referred obliquely to the country's troubles in his sermon today. "Jesus, we are praying to you," he said. "You are the Prince of Peace, and you are the one who can lift the sanctions from our country."
Later the chairman of the parish council, Georges Hormis Sada, said Iraqi Christians shared the widespread anger and puzzlement here over the West's hostility.
Mr. Sada is a retired military officer who fondly recalls his two years of pilot training at Randolph Air Force Base in Texas during the 1960's, when Iraqi-American relations were still friendly.
"We don't say anything about politics," he said, "but when we see aggression against children, women and old people, we think this should not be. We don't think Jesus would like it. We feel sad that Christian countries are doing this to us. Christians should be able to solve these problems in a different way."
Mr. Sada said the council had decided to cancel traditional church parties. There will be prayer services instead.
"You can't be very happy when people are being killed, when people are depressed and suffering," he said. "How can you have parties and sing and dance? We feel we should share the sadness of our people and only worship."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Catholics preparing for a Christmas Eve Mass at Maree-Yousuf Church in Baghdad. Christians, 6 percent of Iraq's population, are widely accepted as part of Iraq's heritage, and they say they worship freely. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH; CHRISTMAS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); RELIGION (96%); CHRISTMAS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (79%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN GEORGES HORMIS SADA (62%); GABRIEL MARIE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



567 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Offices Plan for Possible Strike By Building Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Managers of office buildings throughout New York City are making contingency plans for a possible strike on New Year's Day, when the union contract covering 30,000 maintenance workers will expire.
Neither side is predicting a strike, but both sides fear that if negotiations break off, the city could see a painful replay of the monthlong strike three years ago, when janitors and elevator operators walked out, creating major inconveniences in hundreds of commercial buildings. 
 That strike created chaos as building managers asked tenants to help carry their office trash to a central collection point. And without their normal maintenance crews on hand, some managers had to hire outsiders to shovel snow off sidewalks.
The Realty Advisory Board, which handles labor relations for about 1,000 office buildings, is focusing on holding down labor costs and winning more flexibility in work rules. Officials of the union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, said their focus will be on gaining higher wages and resisting management's demands for concessions.
The two sides have held only informal talks thus far, but are scheduled to begin intensive negotiations today at the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers in midtown Manhattan.
"From our standpoint, we'll be asking for improvements in a lot of areas, including the starting rate" for new employees, said James F. Berg, the chief negotiator for the real estate industry. "We hope to hold the economics down, to be as reasonable as possible. But we're hoping we don't have to have a strike."
The main cause of the strike three years ago was management's demand for a lower starting salary and the union's resistance to the idea. Ultimately, management and the union's president, Gus Bevona, compromised on a starting salary 20 percent lower than the $32,000 a year earned on average by experienced building maintenance workers. Under the current agreement, new workers' salaries rise to the level of experienced workers' after 30 months. In the negotiations three years ago, the industry initially sought a 48 percent lower starting salary that would rise to the level of the salary of experienced workers in six years.
Both management and the union declined to give details about their current bargaining positions because neither side has yet presented the other with a formal proposal. Nonetheless, Mr. Berg said the industry would seek more flexibility, that is, the ability to maintain buildings with fewer workers.
"We want to adjust work rules and methods of operations so they'll be more efficient," Mr. Berg said. "Does that translate into the ability to change the size of the work force? Yes."
Dennis Sheehan, a spokesman for the union, said, "Gus Bevona, as he always has done, will negotiate the best contract possible for his membership."
The real estate industry contends that Mr. Bevona's members are among the best-paid unskilled workers in the city and that their salaries are far higher than those of building maintenance workers in most other cities. Industry officials said that the salaries are costing union workers their jobs because many building owners, to avoid the union rates, have been turning to low-wage nonunion maintenance companies.
But union officials maintain that New York is an expensive place to live, and the $32,000 average pay is barely enough to support a family there.
The union officials are expected to fight efforts to shrink their work force, partly because many workers complain that they are required to clean too many square feet of office space each day.
The negotiations are complicated by the situation of Mr. Bevona, who with a salary of more than $400,000 is the city's highest paid union official. Opponents in the union have sued him for $2.5 million, asserting that he wrongly used union funds to defend himself against lawsuits and to publish a union anniversary album that they say was primarily a campaign vehicle for him.
Arthur Z. Schwartz, a lawyer for Mr. Bevona's political opponents, said he predicted that if Mr. Bevona loses the case, the parent union might impose a trusteeship, assert direct control over the local and force Mr. Bevona aside.
Some members of the union predicted that Mr. Bevona might push for a strike to show he was firmly in command. But others said that after the strike three years ago, when workers were on picket lines during weeks of bitter cold, Mr. Bevona would be reluctant to send his members back onto the street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gus Bevona, president of Local 32B-32J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; STRIKES; LABOR COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR FORCE (79%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BEVONA, GUS MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



568 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Russia and Belarus Plan a Unified Currency
The Presidents of Russia and Belarus said they intended to begin unifying their currencies and much of their economies next year. That would stop just short of a political merger that would again extend Russian territory to the border of Poland. President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko of Belarus, above, said he hoped that the two countries would enter the millennium as one. A1 

Balloon Lands in Pacific
The three balloonists aboard the ICO Global Challenge ditched their craft 10 miles north of Oahu, in the Hawaiian Islands, after a flight of more than halfway around the world. The Coast Guard picked them up. A8
 
Kosovo Fighting Eases
Western efforts to rescue a crumbling cease-fire achieved modest success when American diplomats persuaded ethnic Albanian rebel commanders and Yugoslav Army officers to pull back some forces. A3
 
N. Korea Missile Warning
North Korea told the United States that it was prepared to launch another medium-range missile, despite a warning that that would jeopardize international aid promised to North Korea in exchange for the freezing of its nuclear weapons program. A11
 
Mercury in Cambodia Waste
Initial test results on waste dumped in Cambodia by a Taiwanese company indicated that the mercury level was thousands of times higher than safety standards permit. A12
 
Sierra Leone Capital Is Calmer
A British airlift from Freetown, which evacuated dozens of foreigners on Thursday, found only one taker, with the capital relatively calm after the arrival of peacekeepers and a pro-Government militia. A5
 
A Prayer Against Violence
The Pope offered a Christmas prayer that urged people to work against violence, weapons production, the death penalty and genocide. A4
 
Christian and Muslim worshipers crisscrossed Manger Square in Bethlehem and filled the churches and mosques in observances of Christmas and Ramadan. A4
 
Probably no priest or pastor outside Iraq opened a Christmas sermon as the Rev. Gabriel Marie did at the Church of Our Lady of Assumption in Baghdad: "Thanks be to God that we have survived the bombing." A4
 
NATIONAL A14-25; 28
 
Insurance Plans Skirt Mental Health Provision
Insurance companies and employers have found a way around a 1996 law that requires them to offer health care coverage for mental illness that is comparable to that for physical illness. The companies have replaced the dollar limits for mental health care with numerical limits on outpatient visits, treatment sessions or days in the hospital. A1
 
Prosecuting the President
The Republican Congressmen appointed as managers -- or prosecutors -- of President Clinton's impeachment trial in the Senate have as many questions as answers about the historic roles they are set to play. It is their job to argue and present the case for removing the President from office, but they have yet to decide how best to do that, in part because they are still dusting off the rules and rummaging through history for relevant guideposts. A25
 
The rules of impeachment. A24
 
Presidential Pardons for 33
President Clinton granted executive clemency to 33 people who had been convicted of a variety of offenses that included buying and detonating explosives, conspiring to manufacture marijuana and being AWOL in the Korean War. Three of the pardons were given to people who had been found guilty of lying to government agencies or to a bank. A28
 
Effort to Head Off Wildfires
Agriculture officials in Florida, who are facing more long-range drought conditions, want $35 million for an aggressive controlled-burning program to prevent a repetition of the wildfires that destroyed more than 500,000 acres last summer. The State Agriculture Department was criticized by agriculture groups and timber landowners for not being aggressive enough in using controlled burning before the fires last summer. A16
 
Shifting Remedial Studies' Cost
Virginia is considering a voluntary program that would effectively certify the competence of high school graduates. State-supported colleges and universities spend $25 million a year to aid freshmen with remedial courses in reading, writing and arithmetic. The State Council of Higher Education is considering shifting the cost of such studies to the high schools that fail to produce freshmen who are ready to do college-level work. A19
 
Storm Hurts the South
The first national storm of the winter brought down hundreds of utility poles and countless trees in southeastern Virginia on Thursday, depriving 240,000 residents of electricity and heat. More than 200,000 homes and businesses were also left without power in Tennessee, Louisiana, Mississippi and North Carolina. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Icy Patch Led to Crash, Bus Driver Tells Officials
The driver of the bus that crashed on the Garden State Parkway on Thursday said he was trying to avoid what looked like a patch of ice when he lost control of the vehicle, investigators said. But the officials refused to say how fast the driver, Valentin Viner, 52, said he was going at the time of the accident. The bus plunged down an embankment, killing 8 people and injuring 15, during the morning trip from New York to Atlantic City. B4
 
Disagreement on Standards
Some private and religious schools are resisting state efforts to have them adopt new standards intended to improve learning in public school classrooms. The nonpublic schools say they are worried about losing the autonomy that allows them to develop the nontraditional approaches that they believe are at the heart of their success. B1
 
Planning for a Strike
Managers of office buildings throughout New York City are making contingency plans for a possible strike on New Year's Day, when the union contract covering 30,000 maintenance workers will expire. Neither side is predicting a strike, but both sides fear that if talks break off, there may be a replay of the monthlong strike three years ago. B1
 
G.O.P. Donations Investigated
Federal prosecutors are said to be investigating $100,900 in political contributions that a Long Island insurance conglomerate, the Robert Plan, and its president, Robert Wallach, made to the New York Republican State Committee before closing a deal with the state to take control of most of the assets of two nearly bankrupt insurance companies. B5
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-24
 
Debate Over Pakistan Founder
The Pakistani scholar Ayesha Jalal has angered her countrymen with assertions that that the revered founding father of Pakistan, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, had feet of clay and that he never really wanted a separate Muslim state. B7
 
A Fighter's Life, on Film
Rubin (Hurricane) Carter, 61, who was freed from prison 13 years ago, after his murder conviction was twice overturned, is reaping the ultimate vindication: a movie is being made about him. B7
 
SPORTS D1-8
Faith in Sports Compromised
A raft of doping scandals has contributed to a crisis of confidence in international athletics, leading many in sports to urge the International Olympic Committee to take decisive action against drug cheating when it holds a summit in February. A1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-4
Revising Bad-Loan Estimate
Japan's 17 biggest banks had $427 billion in problem loans as of March, a Government audit has found -- 12 percent more than they had reported. The Financial Supervisory Agency said it had determined that the banks' problem loans were 5.4 trillion yen more than the banks had calculated, though the size of that difference was in line with analysts' expectations. C3
 
Japanese stocks closed higher for the first time this week as a rise in Government bonds lessened worries that bank profits would shrink further. The Nikkei rose 91.22 points, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 13,797.95, leaving the benchmark index of 225 stocks 10 percent below its level of a year earlier. The world's other major financial markets were closed for Christmas. C3
 
Oil Production Slips in Russia
Russian oil production fell 1 percent this year, less than expected, as the ruble's plunge offset low world oil prices and provided producers with cash to maintain output, the Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister said. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES C6
 
Pierre Vallieres
A writer and political advocate whose raw, emotional manifesto on injustice and violence became the intellectual foundation of the early Quebec separatist movement, he was 60. C6
 
Mike McAlary
The Daily News columnist, who won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary this year for a series of columns on the brutalization of a Haitian immigrant in a police station in Brooklyn, was 41. C6
 
Jan Meyerowitz
A prolific composer whose varied catalogue includes eight operas and many chamber, symphonic and choral works, he was 85. C6
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Chico Mendes's legacy; what price digital television? Dorothy J. Samuels on Chief Justice Rehnquist.
 
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B18
 
Weather C5
 
Crossword B19

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BELARUS (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BELARUS (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); RELIGION (86%); MENTAL HEALTH (84%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (71%); ARMIES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (63%); INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998



569 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Connecticut;
The Privatization of Public Housing in Stamford

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: STAMFORD

 BODY:
LAST year a private developer bought one of the Stamford Housing Authority's most distressed properties; next year another one will be sold to a different developer. The first is now being rehabilitated and the second will be replaced.
Ninety-four buildings with 430 two-story apartments at Rippowam Park are undergoing redevelopment and 500 units at Southfield Village will be demolished and replaced by 330 apartments and town houses. 
 The program under which Rippowam Park is being redeveloped represents a departure in the financing of public housing. It was approved by the State Legislature last year as a two-year pilot program introduced by Representative Christel H. Truglia, a Stamford Democrat. Up to three municipalities may participate. So far Stamford is the only one to do so.
The $36-million cost of the project was raised through $16 million in tax-exempt bonds issued by the Housing Authority, a $6.6 million low-interest loan that the developer will repay to the city and the rest from private investment in low-income housing tax credits.
Under the pilot program, developers and housing authorities may apply as partners to the state's Department of Economic and Community Development for approval of plans to renovate deteriorated public housing. Once approval is granted the developer takes over ownership of the buildings and proceeds without further oversight by the state or the housing authority on construction, maintenance, management and rentals.
The housing authority retains ownership of the land through a 99-year ground lease, which restricts its use to low- and moderate-income housing for the entire term. After that the buildings revert to the Housing Authority.
The terms of the tax-exempt bonds also insure that the low- and moderate-income status of the project continues for 99 years in the event that the developer, in this case Rippowam Park Associates L.P., a division of the Richman Group of Greenwich, exercises its option to buy the entire property within three years, provided that the renovations are complete.
Mayor Dannel Malloy calls the rehabilitation of the complex, now a third of the way completed with 150 refurbished two- to four-bedroom apartments rented to former tenants or newcomers, "trail-blazing."
"This is the trend," he said. "The state won't put the money in that's required to rebuild public housing, which has been allowed to decline over a long period. Rippowam Park has been very successful. The crime statistics have dropped through the basement. Resident satisfaction is high, and people who never would have considered living there are renting apartments."
He said he preferred the state program to Hope VI, a 1993 Federal Housing and Urban Development program that is helping to finance the demolition and reconstruction of Southfield Village. "It's a big country," said the Mayor, "and there's a limit to the number of Hope VI grants." Only 20 a year are awarded nationwide in a highly competitive application process.
BY next August the transformation of Rippowam Park -- a state-subsidized moderate-income housing project formerly known as Ward Homes that was owned and operated by the Housing Authority for 45 years -- is expected to be completed. To date, 20 of the former Ward Homes tenants have been evicted for nonpayment of rent and disqualified from renting one of the new units.
The plans for Southfield Village, which is a federally financed low-income complex, will take at least five years to complete. The result will be a mixed-income, garden-apartment and town house neighborhood with backyards and parking areas, a community pool and a fitness center.
Beacon-Corcoran Jennison Partners, a joint venture of the Beacon Companies and Corcoran Jennison of Boston, will develop half of the 330 new units as federally subsidized rentals for low-income tenants. The other half will be rented to moderate-income tenants, except for 15 town houses, which will be sold.
The 24-acre project received a $26.4 million grant from the Hope VI program, which, like the state plan at Rippowam Park, allows housing authorities to redevelop deteriorated properties by forming partnerships with private developers. The housing authorities turn over ownership, rehabilitation and management of the properties to the developer, but retain the land on a 99-year lease. Other Hope VI projects are under way in Hartford and New Haven.
According to Edward Schwartz, executive director of the Stamford Housing Authority, H.U.D.'s grant will provide leverage for the $80 million that the project will cost. The city provided $3 million as leverage for the Federal grant and, according to Peter Wood, area redevelopment director for Beacon-Corcoran Jennison Partners, "we are applying for low-income housing tax credits and seeking some gap funding from the state."
"Since there is no purchase option for Hope VI projects," added Mr. Schwartz, "we are obligated to supply rent subsidies for the low-income units during the entire 99-year term of the ground lease."
His office oversees 18 public-housing properties in the city, some federally subsidized, others, like Rippowam Park, whose tenants' income may not exceed 60 percent of the area median of $89,300 for a family of four. "People pay 30 percent of their income or the minimum rent, whichever is higher," said Mr. Schwartz. "There are no rent subsidies."
Typically, a single individual earning a minimum of $17,550 pays $508 a month for a two-bedroom apartment, or $585 with a maximum income of $21,875. A family of four at Rippowam Park may earn between $46,620 and $53,580 and pay the minimum $1,415 or the maximum $1,554 a month for a four-bedroom apartment. A two-bedroom market rate apartment in Stamford rents for $1,800 to $2,200 a month.
"We saw nothing in Stamford that was as nice as this that wasn't a lot more expensive," said Beth Hale, who moved to Rippowam Park with her husband, Adam, last October.
Monica Pratcher, a five-year resident with two children, was moved to a vacant apartment while hers was renovated. "It took about three months," she said. "The difference is humongous."
EACH refurbished apartment has a small deck and backyard, fully equipped eat-in kitchen, one or one-and-a-half baths and central air-conditioning. New roofs and siding, rebuilt interiors, plumbing and electrical systems, walkways and landscaping, are standard renovations, and the Richman Group has hired uniformed off-duty policemen to patrol nightly. An independently owned day care center will operate rent-free on the site.
The complex covers 46 acres in a pleasant residential neighborhood known as Westover, across the street from the E. Gaynor Brennan municipal golf course. The terrain, which varies from rolling and wooded to level and grassy, is dotted with playgrounds and small parking lots for residents. Soon a community center will be completed with a gym, kitchen, and meeting rooms. Next door to the complex is the public Westover Magnet School, where Rippowam Park children have priority in the citywide lotteries for admission.
For the last 20 years developers across the country have competed for work turning around distressed public housing, according to Pamela Goodman, senior vice president of the Beacon Companies. "It's nowhere near as lucrative as building $500,000 condos," she said, "and there are days when I wonder whether the risk-reward relationship is in balance. Hope VI just makes it more complicated."
But profits are to be made in public housing that is not for the poorest of the poor. "We collect management fees," said John McClutchy, a partner in Rippowam Park Associates, "and the cumulative amount longterm, paid in rents that escalate by 3 or 4 percent a year, can be substantial." There is a cap, however, on profits of 10 to 15 percent for any state or federally financed housing, he said.
Peter Wood, Beacon-Corcoran Jennison's area director, calls public housing "a niche in our case."
"People on our staff have worked at H.U.D., bringing a great deal of expertise to affordable housing redevelopment," he said.
Ten years ago Corcoran Jennison turned an almost vacant 1,400-unit public-housing project in Boston into an award-winning mixed income complex called Harbor Point. Currently, it is working on Hope VI projects in New Haven, Boston, Pittsburgh and Detroit.
"They are only part of our overall portfolio, and we don't anticipate future cash flow on these jobs," Mr. Wood said. "But they contribute positively to our reputation, and we expect to break even, at least. It's a threshold question as to whether or not we will continue to do Hope VI projects."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rippowam Park, where 94 buildings with 430 two-story apartments are undergoing redevelopment. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut, highlighting Stamford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: RIPPOWAM PARK ASSOCIATES L P (76%); BEACON-CORCORAN JENNISON PARTNERS (63%); STAMFORD HOUSING AUTHORITY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAMFORD HOUSING AUTHORITY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); BOND ISSUES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); STATISTICS (60%); CRIME STATISTICS (50%); 

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



570 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Neckties at Work: Untangling the Knot

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Foulard and Rep, Rest in Peace? Not So Fast!" (The Culture of Money, Dec. 6): 
 In discussing the declining use of neckties in America, and the backlash against the trend, the column stated that "there is no substitute" for a necktie in a man's wardrobe. "Without neckties to channel decorative instincts," it said, "men are left to flounder uncertainly in a sea of corduroys, khakis and 'dressy casuals.' "
For years, I and other men have found that the use of bola ties can channel decorative instincts without projecting an image of formality. (A bola tie, of course, is a string tie held in place by an ornament that is called a bola; the ends of the string are tipped in silver or other material.)
Bolas encourage a feeling of informality. They can be worn with the top of the shirt buttoned or unbuttoned and can be loosely or tightly fitted.
Unfortunately, bolas are not common outside the Southwest and West. Perhaps their greater use across the country would solve wardrobe problems for both men and women. I have worn them on business trips to Baltimore -- and have received compliments.
 
TERRY TORZALA
Tucson, Ariz., Dec. 6
 
The writer is a regulatory-affairs consultant for the medical equipment industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (77%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (77%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; LABOR; TIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (73%); GARMENT WORKERS (59%); 

PERSON: SUN PARK MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



571 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
The Job To Forget

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. After taking night courses in business and finance over the last three years, I have moved from office support to management and now work at an entertainment services company. My resume shows that I'm not one to hop from place to place, yet after just four months at my new employer, I'm deeply unhappy and want to move on. How do I explain my desire to leave so soon?
 
A. Don't torture yourself over one bad decision. And don't bother trying to concoct a complicated cover story for why you want to flee after such a short time. It's time to face your mistake, admit it and move on.
"Just tell your employer that you were mistaken as to what being in the job would be like and that you now see that it's not a good fit for your talents," said Edward Emde, chief executive of Blessing/White, a consulting firm in Princeton, N.J. 
 Take responsibility for your mistake, agreed Marti D. Smye, author of "Is It Too Late to Run Away and Join the Circus?" (Macmillan, 1998). "Often people blame the organization, instead of saying, 'I didn't do a good assessment for myself,' "she observed.
No matter how miserable you are, don't just drop your two weeks' notice on the boss's desk. Express your regret over any problems your departure may cause and offer to stay long enough to help find a replacement, Ms. Smye advised. Promise to make your successor's transition as painless as possible. "How you leave is more important than staying in a job you don't like," she said.
Of course, before breaking the news to your employer, you should determine exactly what the problem is. Do you hate the bureaucratic nature of the company? Or its unstructured work style? Or do you dislike being in charge? Your boss will want to know why you are leaving, and you should be prepared to offer a more thoughtful explanation than simply, "I'm unhappy."
More important, in seeking other jobs, you will need to articulate how they will suit you better than your last position, Mr. Emde said. That can assure hiring managers that you've learned from your mistake and are now far less likely to repeat it.
Just because you're being straightforward, however, don't forget the first law of job-hunting: Accentuate the positive. Don't emphasize your recent career fiasco when calling on prospective employers, advised Tom Jackson, author of "Guerrilla Tactics in the New Job Market" (Bantam, 1991).
Four months wasn't really enough time to get settled, so you might not even want to update your resume to include your last job, he said. You need to be honest, however, so mention in your cover letter that the job hasn't proved a good fit. And in all correspondence, he said, focus less on your last position and more on the type of environment where you think you'd be most productive. "Put forward what it is you want and what you can do," he said.
Just make sure you know what that is. Your next employer is likely to be much less understanding if, come spring, you decide you've made another horrible mistake.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she will respond to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WORKING MONEY&BUSINESS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); WRITERS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



572 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 9; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN REVIEW: FILM;
War Stories, on the Beach and in the Home

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:

1. 'SAVING PRIVATE RYAN' -- Steven Spielberg took the enormous risk of recreating the experience of World War II combat and reminding contemporary audiences of all the patriotism, shock and horrific sacrifice that it entailed. And in a film year otherwise devoted to the darkest visions of American life, he touched a long-buried, fundamental nerve. This wrenchingly visceral war epic was also a bravura visual achievement, with the swiftness and economy of its storytelling and the terrifying, furious immediacy of its battles. Audiences were rightly stunned by so fierce and meaningful a re-examination of the American character under fire. 

2. 'HAPPINESS' -- Todd Solondz turned out to be no mean stunner himself. His merrily outrageous, expertly written ensemble piece was a true original, able to achieve the most perverse insights with unnerving empathy, and without the slightest straining for effect. This filmmaker seems to come naturally by the skewed, murderously funny world view that yielded the biggest and best of the year's pitch-black comedies. And his wicked screenplay plumbed the collective misery of its lonely characters with dazzling finesse. As structurally elegant as it was taboo-shattering, "Happiness" arrived at just the right moment. The worst excesses of tabloid culture paled before Mr. Solondz's matter-of-fact glimpses of family life.
 
3. 'THE BUTCHER BOY' -- Delving into the mind of a troubled young hero might have been solemn business from a filmmaker less imaginatively offbeat than the director of "The Crying Game." But Neil Jordan filled this study of the boy's disintegrating sanity, based on Patrick McCabe's equally daring novel, with ever more chilling ebullience as it began to inhabit the boy's mind. Brilliantly juxtaposing external and subjective reality, Mr. Jordan created a wildly fanciful mental landscape within a workaday Irish town and melted the boundaries between madness and reason to electrifying effect. Eamonn Owens, whose only previous international exposure had been marching with his youth band in New York's St. Patrick's Day parade, gave an unforgettably blistering performance in the central role.
 
4. 'HENRY FOOL' -- None of Hal Hartley's earlier films matched the ambitions of this deft cultural allegory, with its wry tale of art and fame in a tug of war. Minimalist in style yet sweeping in vision, Mr. Hartley's story centered on a Queens janitor with a resemblance to a young Samuel Beckett and a previously untapped genius for rousing the populace with his written word. When he fell into the hands of a literary shaman with enough overweening pretensions for the two of them, Mr. Hartley had a field day with the possibilities. Beautifully meticulous despite the occasional needless gross-out, it featured Parker Posey at her most divinely petulant and the best of this filmmaker's shrewdly deadpan style.
 
5. 'SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE' - Mischievously literate Elizabethans, hilarious backstage farce and the sultry teamwork of Joseph Fiennes and Gwyneth Paltrow (as passionate prototypes for Romeo and Juliet) made this the most enchanting entertainment of the year. With a sparkling screenplay by Tom Stoppard and Marc Norman, John Madden's film had the temerity to speculate about Shakespeare's life on the basis of his work. Rarely has such presumptuousness paid off so shamelessly well. Amid a splendid supporting cast, the stars shone even more brightly than Sandy Powell's spectacular costumes.
 
6. 'A SIMPLE PLAN' -- The sleeper of the year, this finely calibrated thriller brought out the best in Scott Smith's novel about the poisonous effects of a windfall on small-town characters in a stark, snowbound setting. Its biggest surprise, beyond the way Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton outshone even their acting collaboration in "One False Move," was the transition made by Sam Raimi from cult horror films to such adroit, subtle storytelling. Modest as it looked, this drama built inexorable momentum as it weighed the consequences of its characters' every misstep, and created a shockingly smooth continuum between good and evil. The stars, cast as brothers, played their last scene together like the instant classic that it is.
 
7. 'THE CELEBRATION' -- Thomas Vinterberg made this boisterous Danish film under an exacting set of creative restrictions, which made its freewheeling brio that much more triumphant. The camera swiveled and soared through an elaborate family reunion, with a skeleton in every closet and an irrepressibly robust quality to the whole gathering. For its sheer vigor without tricks, stunts, makeup or fancy lighting, Mr. Vinterberg's film was a refreshing change and a remarkable achievement.
 
8. 'BULWORTH' -- In a year that cried out for political satire, Warren Beatty delivered one with sharp claws. He played a senator driven to despair by his own lack of conviction until, uproariously, candor set him free. If the idea of a 60-year-old white rapper raised a few hackles, it also embodied the anything-goes spirit that turned a potentially broad, partisan comedy into a bona fide breath of fresh air. Mr. Beatty's panache, vaporized in films like "Love Affair," made a welcome re-emergence. And Oliver Platt's supporting turn (as a slick aide trying to keep the Senator looking respectable) was one of the funniest performances of the year.
 
9. 'THE OPPOSITE OF SEX' -- Family values, 1998-style, as Christina Ricci's evil minx exploited everyone in her path. Sour as this show of nonstop cynicism appeared, it made for an unexpectedly generous, conciliatory comedy from the writer-director Don Roos, not to mention a delectably funny one. And it delivered some of the year's most knowing ideas about the making of sexual connections in these endlessly complicated times, as it intermingled gay and straight characters, innocent and scheming ones, with fearless aplomb. Ms. Ricci and Lisa Kudrow were outstanding as diametrically opposed characters trading acid-dipped repartee.
 
10. 'WESTERN' -- Major themes and high drama were nowhere to be found in this misleadingly titled French road movie. But its humor and tenderness, combined with the slyest of deadpan timing, made it one of the high points of my moviegoing experience this year. Shot in wide-screen format amid a series of tranquil Brittany landscapes, it watched two gentle drifters form a rueful friendship, explore their surroundings and try amusingly and dismally to beguile women. It's on this list only because I smile at the memory of it and remember every frame.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Justin Elvin, above left, and Dylan Baker in Todd Solondz's pitch-black "Happiness"; Christina Ricci, left, in the cynical but unexpectedly generous "Opposite of Sex." (October Films/Good Machine International; Bob Akester/Sony Pictures Classics); Audiences were stunned by Steven Spielberg's wrenching and inspiring "Saving Private Ryan." (David James/Dreamworks Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); IRELAND (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); IRELAND (53%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FILM (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FAMILY (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (61%); 

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



573 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 41; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3755 words

HEADLINE: Apocalypse Now. No, Really. Now!

BYLINE: By Alex Heard and Peter Klebnikov; Alex Heard, an editor at Wired magazine, is the author of "Apocalypse Pretty Soon," to be published in February by W. W. Norton. Peter Klebnikov, a New York writer, is at work on a book about American doomsday groups.

 BODY:
With 1999 almost on us and the year 2000 starting to awaken, growl and plod fatefully toward the camera lens, you can count on 12 months of panicky millennial excitements. The personnel are certainly out there, ready to go. According to a 1997 Associated Press poll, nearly 1 in 4 adult Christians -- upward of 26 million people -- expect Christ to return in their lifetimes, fulfilling the complicated End Times scenario that many people glean from prophetic Bible texts like Revelation and Daniel. The Christians are joined by lesser but impressive numbers of apocalyptic others, with their own scripts of doom and redemption. Ted Daniels, a folklorist in Philadelphia whose Millennium Watch Institute has monitored millennial activity for years, says that his database alone holds the names of more than 1,200 self-proclaimed prophets.
 In light of disasters like Heaven's Gate, that sounds alarming, and millennialism can be troublesome, as some people in the pages that follow vividly demonstrate. But despite their extraordinary flash and strangeness, apocalyptic movements have a long, relatively peaceful history in American life. The meaning of the Greek word apokalypsis is "to uncover," and the motive force for believers has usually been a hunger for the fulfillment of revelatory knowledge -- a conviction that through the willed application of belief, the flaws of this world will be swept away, with the faithful ushered to a brighter place. None of it is very logical, but so what? Religion often isn't. The Judeo-Christian belief that disaster must precede salvation has radiated outward from the events described in the Book of Revelation -- home to the Four Horsemen, the Battle of Armageddon -- but the Bible doesn't say anything about when these calamities will start. Jesus even warns his disciples against trying to figure it out, saying, "of that day and of that hour knoweth no man." 
 Contemporary millennialists know all this, but the date still gets people worked up, whether they specifically believe 2000 is the magic number or (more often) see it as a flash point, a symbol of what someday might be. As an excited prophecy commentator named David Allen Lewis wrote: "2000! . . . You see it everywhere, like a universal logo!"
 
U.F.O. Deliverance
 1. Unarius Academy of Science, El Cajon, Calif. Founded in 1954 by Ernest and Ruth Norman (pictured), Unarius is housed in a lovingly decorated old Post Office, where a few dozen regulars study a complicated mix of flying-saucer theology and past-lives therapy, the idea being that Earth is a "kindergarten" for spiritually debased souls. While the students work out negative karma earned in ancient civilizations like Atlantis, they await a mass landing in the year 2001 by wise Space Brothers from 32 other planets; they will join the Academy and usher in a new age of enlightenment.
 
New Age
 2. Morningland, Long Beach, Calif. Housed in a fortified compound and led by an aging priestess, Sri Patricia, Morningland teaches that Christ will someday descend to Long Beach in a U.F.O. the size of Texas, piloted by Patricia's deceased husband. It currently recruits members through yard sales. Morningland is a multiservice sect, dispensing tarot readings, Zen meditation classes and Ufology. As a special feature, it charges people to cure them of AIDS -- Sri Patricia, a self-proclaimed messiah, claims she can change people's DNA with a wave of a hand. The group's 40 or so members are taught that humans are responsible for the coming destruction because of their irresponsible stewardship of earth's resources.
 
Y2K Chaos
 3. Ted Hall, McKenna, Wash. Hall is the author of "Beat the Beast," described as the only upbeat Y2K preparedness book. Hall and other believers in Y2K survivalism -- arguably the hottest area of contemporary millennialism -- fear that the world's computers will fail at midnight on Jan. 1, 2000, leading to anarchy, blackouts and global chaos. He also contends that the feared computer shutdown fulfills Bible prophecies of the End Times arrival of a beast whose "number is 666." The good news: You can win out over "cyber-beast 666." The book is mainly about practical tips for surviving. Step 1: Create cooperative farms. "Mother Earth is one big free lunch," says Hall.
 
Christian Doomsday
 4. Chuck Missler, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. Christian millennialists aren't usually interested in U.F.O.'s -- that stuff is for New Agers -- but Missler is different. A former C.E.O. who heads a large media ministry called Koinonia House, he believes extraterrestrials are real, but they're not from other worlds. "They pose as aliens," he says in a taped lecture, "but what are they really?" Missler says they're beings called Nephilim, the lingering spirits of "supernatural monstrosities" created eons ago when fallen angels mated with human women. Their existence inspired God to cleanse the earth with the flood, but now they're coming back -- as ET's, reseeding earth women for dark purposes that predicate the imminent final battles. Missler has sponsored "Israel Cruises," tours of the Holy Land with a focus on apocalyptic ports of call. The 1998 edition included stops at the Isle of Patmos (where the Book of Revelation was written in the first century A.D.); the Mount of Olives (where Jesus thrilled and chilled his disciples with doomsday discussions); and the "Valley of Armageddon," where Christ is to defeat the forces of Satan once and for all. There was also a spot of cruise-ship boogieing, including a Saturday night "Biblical Character Masquerade Party."
 
New Age
 5. Church Universal and Triumphant, Corwin Springs, Mont. Led by Elizabeth Clare Prophet, this New Age church gained fame in 1990 when Prophet predicted an imminent nuclear holocaust. The sect assembled a cache of weapons, and disciples hunkered down into a network of bomb shelters. When the planet survived, many became disillusioned and moved away, ushering in a rocky period for the church. Prophet has acknowledged that she has Alzheimer's, and the church is selling much of its land. (Shelters are on "special sale" at $5,000 each.) The world will end anytime soon, Prophet still maintains.
 
Christ Figures
 6. The True and Living Church of Jesus Christ of Saints of the Last Days, Manti, Utah. James Harmston, 58, a former real-estate agent, claims he was ordained by Moses and is, according to his followers, the reincarnation of Joseph Smith, the long-dead 19th-century founder of the Mormon Church. Harmston predicts that a period of violent, apocalyptic turmoil will start within five years. In preparation, he started a Mormon survivalist community in the town of Manti, where some 300 armed, food-storing polygamist followers plan to ride it out. (Harmston denies there are arms and food.) Several former members of the sect are suing Harmston, alleging that he duped them for $250,000, and the church has been excommunicated by Mormon authorities in Salt Lake City for"undue preoccupation with Armageddon." Harmston says he is planning a countersuit.
 
Christ Figures
 7. Concerned Christians, current location unknown. Monte Kim Miller, 44, is a Colorado-based cult leader who has told followers he is one of the two witnesses who is fated to announce the destruction of the earth and coming of the Lord -- and then be slain by Satan in the streets of Jerusalem. Earlier this year, he predicted that Denver would be ground zero for the apocalypse this fall. Taking 78 people with him, he later disappeared in the middle of the night, leaving behind abandoned houses and hundreds of frightened relatives. Several of the members have since appeared in Jerusalem, generating official worry that the group is gathering there for a climactic moment.
 
Y2K Choas
 8. High 54 Ranch, near Concho Lake, Ariz. High 54 is an in-the-works Y2K survivalism community. The rural retreat is still under construction, but soon hopes to offer amenities like underground living quarters, 24-hour armed security, perimeter guards, wind- and solar-power sources and a barter economy. Potential members are required to arrive with at least a one-year supply of food and at least one rifle and one handgun per family, preferably with 1,000 rounds of ammo per weapon. Gas masks, though not required, are highly recommended.
 
Asteroid!
 9. Lori Adaile Toye, Payson, Ariz. Toye channels information from New Age "ascended masters" who have laid out the future geography of the planet after an already-in-progress period of tribulation that will last a thousand years. Called "Freedom Star," the new earth wins a few and loses a few. Much of the Western U.S. will sink underwater after a giant asteroid strikes Nevada. On the plus side, an entirely new continent called New Lemuria will form west of South America, and the world will be graced by golden cities with names like Wahanee, Gandawan and Mesotamp. Sad news for New York: The city disappears underwater, too, but the Statue of Liberty survives as "the Island of Vision."
 
Avenging Planet
 10. Floyd (Looks for Buffalo) Hand, Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S.D. Hand, 59, a healer from the Oglala Sioux tribe, points to ancient Sioux and Hopi prophecies that speak of the imminent arrival of "Star People," wise extraterrestrials who will remove Indians and chosen others from a planet that will soon be deviled by a 1999 drought, followed by floods and earthquakes. "The reason is that humans have not been taking care of the land, have been chopping trees and polluting the air," says Hand. A further warning: "Get the hell out of New York in seven years! That's when the earth plates will shift and tall buildings will sway."
 
Christian Doomsday
 11. House of Yahweh, Abilene, Tex. Yisrayl Hawkins, the assumed name of a former rockabilly singer named Bill Hawkinshas convinced some 3,000 followers that he is the "witness" who will announce Christ's Second Coming before being murdered by Satan. From an armed compound in scrublands near Abilene, Hawkins and his followers are building a ragtag "holy city," where followers are to wait for the return of Christ in the year 2000. "Thankfully, we only have a year left of this madness," he says.
 
U.F.O. Deliverance
 12. Outer Dimensional Forces, Weslaco, Tex. Based in a weedy, fenced-off compound near the Mexican border, O.D.F. is a secretive doomsday sect whose members believe that the U.S. is heading for heaven-sent punishment that was set in motion when the C.I.A. allegedly "attacked" O.D.F. two decades ago. In a TV interview broadcast after the Heaven's Gate suicides, a bearded, intense O.D.F. spokesman named Daniel Hoverson said the Creator will soon rattle and flood the U.S., with the O.D.F. surviving by being spirited to safety in flying saucers. The group was founded by Orville T. Gordon -- better known as "Nodrog" -- a 90-something man who is rarely seen in public.
 
Angry Separatists
 13. Elohim City, Muldrow, Okla. Elohim City is an armed compound guided by Robert Millar, 73, a former Mennonite who based his revelations on an eclectic mix of fundamentalist Christianity, racism, pyramidology and astrology. Millar teaches his followers that the Great Tribulation is upon us and that "worse is to come"when "Asiatics" invade America. "I abhor war," Millar says, "but it is a foregone conclusion." He says he believes that Jesus has been revealing himself for 2,000 years and that disasters will strike, possibly by 2006, at which time the "wicked will be removed" and Elohim City will enjoy an age of peace.
 
Y2K Chaos
 14. Bob Rutz, Kingston, Ark. Rutz, 67, an engineer and entrepreneur, is another "builder" on the Y2K survivalism scene. Rutz and his wife, Joan, are constructing Prayer Lake, a 700-acre Christian community in the hills of northwest Arkansas. Rutz hopes 100 families buy three-acre plots and get back to simple ways of living: plowing with mules, reading by kerosene lamps, drinking from springs and wells. "I look at this as Judgment Day," he says.
 
Christ Figures
 15. Kenna E. Farris, Savannah, Mo. In 1967 Farris, then a restaurateur, received what he describes as a direct call from God to serve as "the Forerunner Prophet of the Apocalypse," designated to spread the word that Christ will return in the year 3000, not 2000. Great things must happen before then, though: for starters, a "prophet President" must arise soon to create a 24-nation "barter-banking" trade center that promotes "Horse Sense Economics" and world unity. Now 73, Farris spreads his ideas via large, insistent, hand-lettered signs and self-published books like "The Greatest Unsolved Mysteries of All Times of Biblical Prophecy Wisdom."
 
New Age
 16. Dolores Cannon, Huntsville, Ark. Cannon is a cheerful, elderly "reporter of lost knowledge" who has used hypnotized human intermediaries to travel back in time and speak directly to Nostradamus, the 16th-century French seer who supposedly predicted violent upheavals in our day. The results, contained in her three-volume "Conversations With Nostradamus," are gloomy: Nostradamus calls the 1990's "the Time of Troubles" and says the Antichrist, identity unknown, is in hiding now in the Middle East. Luckily, the dire prophecies can be staved off if mankind radiates enough good will. "Nostradamus thought that if people knew what was going to happen," Cannon explains, "we could keep it from happening."
 
Christian Doomsday
 17. The Rev. Clyde Lott, Canton, Miss. Lott, a Pentecostal minister, interprets passages of the Bible to say that a third Jewish temple must rise in Jerusalem before the Second Coming can happen. Some messianic Jews think the Messiah won't come (for the first time) until the temple is restored. In an improbable partnership with a Jerusalem-based rabbi named Chaim Richman, Lott is producing perfect red heifers, virginal cows "without spot" that could be sacrificed to produce ashes for ritual use in the future temple. For that to happen, Muslim shrines like the Dome of the Rock would have to be knocked down. Neither Lott nor Richman advocates destructive violence, but both men are convinced that God will attend to this impediment in due time.
 
Asteroid!
 18. Wake Up America Seminars, Bellbrook, Ohio. Founded by Larry Wilson, a Vietnam veteran and prophecy student, the Wake Up America ministry has a particular fascination with asteroids. Wilson's reading of Scripture (like Revelation 8:7, which speaks of "hail and fire mixed with blood") has him convinced that two giant rocks will bash the earth during periods of Tribulation and Wrath that precede the Last Judgment. Rejecting the popular millennialist notion of a rapture, a grace-giving moment when the faithful are whisked safely into heaven, he believes people will have to tough out calamities that he identifies with eerie labels like "Volcanoes Cause Darkness" and "Devil Appears." When? "As best as I can tell," Wilson says, "the Tribulation starts somewhere between 1999 and 2017."
 
U.F.O Deliverance
 19. Chen Tao, near Buffalo. Previously based in Garland, Tex., Chen Tao entered the national spotlight last winter, when its leader, a Taiwanese emigre named Chen Hon Ming, predicted that God would appear on March 25. Overcoming this setback, he has since moved 80 of his Taiwanese followers to a place just outside Buffalo. Dressed in regulation white smocks and cowboy hats, Chen Tao faithful expect Armageddon to start next month, when China invades Taiwan and precipitates a nuclear holocaust. Eventually a third of the world's population will die, but God will arrive in a"Godplane" to deliver the sect's believers from doom.
 
Avenging Planet
 20. Gordon-Michael Scallion, Chesterfield, N.H. Scallion is a psychic and booster of "Earth Changes," a New Age prophecy belief that predicts violent planetary shakings in the years ahead, marked by escalating earthquakes, hurricanes, rising oceans, ubiquitous volcanoes and other unpleasantries. Some Earth Changes believers think the planet itself is willing these punishments; Scallion sees them as part of a "natural" astrophysical cycle worsened by man's sloppy environmental caretaking. His "Future Map of the World" shows major portions of all the continents underwater, including much of the American West. For 1999 he predicts "calamitous melt-offs at the poles" and a regional conflict in Turkey that will later lead to World War III.
 
Christian Doomsday
 21. The Brethren, Boston. This nomadic, Old and New Testament doomsday group maintains a temporary clandestine base near Boston University. From there, some 100 college-age followers of "Brother Evangelist" Jim Roberts roam the country in robes meant to hide the human form, preaching that Americans are doomed by their materialism and fated to perish in the Great Tribulation. Targeting disaffected kids, the Brethren requires joiners to abandon all material goods and prior family connections. For years, the sect was called "the Garbage Eaters" for its members' habit of eating out of dumpsters.
 
Angry Separatists
 22. Twelve Tribes of Israel, New York. A separatist group with U.F.O. themes, with branches in half a dozen cities, Twelve Tribes is led by a mysterious, disciplinarian-prophet named Rawhab (left, in dark shirt). Its goal is to "prepare" followers for the End Times, in which chosen blacks, Hispanics and Native Americans will survive earthquakes, floods and a huge race war that commences sometime in the near future. Followers believe that black space brothers are now circling earth in spaceships that will rescue their human counterparts in a "marvelous miracle," levitating them to a world where persecution and white people will be no more.
 
Asteroid!
 23. Kabbalah Learning Center, New York. Philip Berg is rabbi to the stars -- he has long taught mystical texts like the Zohar to a celebrity clientele, including Madonna and Roseanne. He has also proclaimed, quite seriously, that the End might arrive on Sept. 11, 1999, when "a ball of fire will descend . . . destroying almost all of mankind, all vegetation, all forms of life." If mankind takes to "sharing more" and studying cabalistic texts, the species will most likely be spared.
 
Angry Separatists
 24. Thomas Chittum, Lake Hopatcong, N.J. "America was born in blood, America suckled in blood . . . and America will drown in blood." So writes Thomas Chittum, author of "Civil War Two," an influential far-right tract that says the U.S. is headed for an explosive crackup, as regional wars break out along racial lines. Chittum is notably fretful about the Southwest; he thinks that unchecked immigration will make it a de facto part of Mexico by 2020. Chittum says he plans to relocate someday to the northern reaches of New York State, where he figures Caucasians will still be in charge.
 
Christian Doomsday
 25. James BeauSeigneur, Rockville, Md. BeauSeigneur is a two-time Congressional candidate (he lost to Al Gore in 1980) who has written a lively three-part novel dramatizing the End Times events described in Revelation. Such novels are quite popular among prophecy-believing Christians, who often work out pent-up energies about Christ's imminent return through potboiler fiction that is heavy on horror and rapine. BeauSeigneur's "Christ Clone Trilogy" livens things up with a sci-fi premise: cells scraped from the Shroud of Turin are used to clone a new version of Christ. And? "The clone," BeauSeigneur says ominously, "goes sour."
 
U.F.O Deliverance
 26. The Center for the Study of Extraterrestrial Intelligence, Asheville, N.C. Dr. Steven M. Greer is an emergency-room doctor who, in his spare time, takes squads of U.F.O. buffs out for nighttime vigils, during which they wave flashlights and think positive thoughts in an utterly serious attempt to entice flying saucers to land. Greer, who has a sizable national following, believes extraterrestrials are here to share a new-paradigm millennial consciousness. He is also convinced the Federal Government wants to harm them. He once told Art Bell, host of a talk-radio show on the paranormal, that a "covert" and "extra-extra secret supersecret" Government team has coldbloodedly blasted flying saucers out of the sky.
 
Avenging Planet
 27. Richard W. Noone, Ellijay, Ga. Many apocalyptic theorizers shy away from precise date-setting, but not Noone, author of the book "5/5/2000," which states that on May 5, 2000, the earth's crust will "shift" horribly as part of a series of cataclysmic changes that usher in a new ice age. The mechanics are complicated -- factors include an extraordinary alignment of the planets -- but the results are clear enough. Three-quarters of the human race will be killed. "The last shift like this occurred 9,000 years ago," Noone says grimly. "It turned the oceans into maelstroms of death." An ardent survivalist, he lives in the mountains of north Georgia.
 
Christ Figures
 28. Arthur Blessitt, North Fort Myers, Fla. Blessitt, a strapping Christian evangelist (above, with his wife, Denise), has spent the last 29 years carrying a 12-foot cross-on-a-wheel through every nation. It started in 1969, when Blessitt -- then the proprietor of a Sunset Strip coffeehouse-for-Jesus called His Place -- decided to traverse America with a cross as a one-time faith statement. That led to more ambitious travels, and in 1988, the Lord officially told him to drag a cross through 277 nations, island groups and territories before 2000, for reasons relating to the Last Days. "I don't know what the time-date will be," he says. "I just know this is part of God's End Time plan." The deed is done: this year he knocked off his last two countries, Iraq and North Korea, having covered, by his count, a whopping 32,762 miles.
 
Christian Doomsday
 29. Meade Ministries, Lake City, Fla. Years ago, Charles Meade was told by God that Lake City would be the only place on the planet to survive Armageddon, which the octogenarian Meade predicts will come in his lifetime. The world will soon be engulfed in a sticky white substance, Meade has said, leaving his church standing as a beacon of light. In recent years, some 2,000 followers have left their homes in at least 14 states and moved into a guarded subdivision. The Meade-ites have prospered in local businesses, and the church has built a stunning $10 million worship center shaped like an overturned Noah's ark -- a design that is meant to attract new members.

GRAPHIC: Photos (pgs. 40-43)
 
Map of the United States showing sites of the 29 "Chicken Littles." (pgs. 42 & 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (58%); UNARIUS ACADEMY OF SCIENCE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNARIUS ACADEMY OF SCIENCE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILLENNIUM (92%); RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (77%); FOLKLORE (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: CHUCK MISSLER (69%); TED HALL (69%); CHRISTIAN DOOMSDAY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



574 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Nassau County Tries to Fix Budget Problem

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
EMBARRASSED by a bond rating agency report that showed Nassau County's budget in disarray despite the strong economy, Nassau officials are scrambling to restructure county finances to solve the problem.
But some officials said last week they were unsure whether the county could solve its budget problem anytime soon, and if an economic downturn came, they said, it would have to be met without benefit of financial reserves that should have been set aside during the boom times of the past seven years. 
 Officials and financial analysts said the recent announcement by Standard & Poor's, a bond-rating agency, that it was placing county bonds on its credit watch list because of a looming $100 million deficit in the county's $2.3 billion budget underscored a problem that had been growing worse for several years.
In interviews last week, the officials and analysts said the county needed urgently to end a disturbing reliance on one-time infusions of cash to balance annual budgets, a practice most traced to County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta, the county's chief budget architect.
They said there has been a recurring pattern in which so-called one-shot revenues projected for county land sales, Medicaid payment refunds and other one-time-only items were used to balance budgets. When these revenues failed to materialize, came in at lower amounts than projected or arrived late, they said, the county was compelled to borrow to close budget deficits and meet day-to-day expenses.
"One-shots work one time," said Bruce Nyman, the Democratic minority leader of the Nassau County Legislature. "If you keep using them, eventually you're going to run out, and that's what we are seeing now."
The result, Mr. Nyman said, was a wealthy county in financial crisis when most governments were on easy street.
"The whole state of New York, the whole country, is awash in surplus money except for one place, Nassau County," Mr. Nyman said. "Doesn't that tell you something about our fiscal practices?"
Mr. Gulotta said in a statement that the issues raised by Standard & Poor's would be addressed swiftly, but declined through a spokesman to be interviewed.
Bruce A. Blakeman, the Republican presiding officer of the County Legislature, defended the Republican majority's budget actions and appeared to lay blame on Mr. Gulotta, also a Republican.
"We have been far more conservative than the executive branch and we have continually eliminated questionable revenues from the budget," Mr. Blakeman said. "I can assure the rating agencies that we are absolutely determined to get the financial house in order."
Joseph N. Mondello, the chairman of the Nassau County Republican Committee, said he was "hopeful something can be done" before conditions worsened.
"We're getting to the point where we can't consider one-shots," Mr. Mondello said. "We need sustainable revenue sources. Those are the things that are going to put this county on an even keel."
One source of such revenues, Mr. Mondello said, would be increased county property taxes.
As Nassau struggled, neighboring Suffolk County was finishing the year with a modest budget surplus and a sales tax a quarter percentage point lower than Nassau's. "We don't rely on one-shots to fund our budget," said James J. Spero, the deputy director of the Suffolk legislature's Budget Review Office.
Analysts for rating agencies spoke bluntly about Nassau's fiscal straits.
Diane P. Brosen, director of public finance ratings for Standard & Poor's, said the decision to put the bonds on credit watch was prompted by a glaring structural imbalance in its $2.3 billion annual budget.
"Ongoing revenues do not meet ongoing expenses and the county continues to rely on one-time revenues to balance it's budget," Ms. Brosen said. "And when those revenues aren't received as budgeted, the county has to borrow to pay it's bills.
"We are at the peak of the economic cycle and the county's financial situation is stressed," she said. "From a rating perspective, what we would expect at this point in the cycle would be that the county was beginning to save for a rainy day, which could be the next recession."
Helen Cregger, an assistant vice president at Moody's Investors Service, another bond rating agency, said that the county's short-term borrowing was up 30 percent this year, a sign of financial strain. "Obviously, the county's current fiscal situation is tenuous," she said.
The current crisis involves $60 million the county was to receive from the sale of the Nassau County Medical Center and other county-owned health facilities to a public benefit corporation.
With the year ending, the sale has been stalled by negotiations over the amount of the subsidy the county would pay to the corporation and the contract for county employees who would work for the corporation but continue to be paid by the county.
Ms. Cregger said that the county needed to resolve the negotiations to protect the county's credit from slipping further. "We are down to the wire on this and time is running out," she said.
The public benefit corporation would operate the 615-bed Nassau County Medical Center, an acute-care hospital with 2,821 employees, a county-owned nursing home with 900 employees and nine health clinics now operated by the Nassau County Department of Health. Nassau has 14,780 employees, including the police.
In a broader view, problems facing the county reflect the extreme reluctance of Mr. Gulotta and the county's legislative branch to increase property taxes, the surest and most predictable way to produce revenues in a county whose $95 billion tax base is among the highest for any county in the nation. County property taxes account for about 20 percent of total property taxes paid by an average Nassau homeowner.
The situation is further exacerbated by high costs to the county for services it provides as well as rising county personnel costs driven by collective-bargaining agreements and, in the case of the county police, arbitration awards. The police budget accounts for nearly three-quarters of the tax levy in the current county budget.
Even surging sales tax revenues, which have grown by at least 4 percent annually for the past several years, have been insufficient to lift the county out of trouble when one-shots failed.
"You can't continue to have rising costs and a high level of services and reductions or stability in the property tax without something giving way," said the County Comptroller, Frederick E. Parola.
Mr. Parola said property taxes accounted for about $550 million of current revenues, while sales taxes -- more heavily relied on by the county in recent years but highly sensitive to economic changes that affected retail sales -- accounted for about $730 million.
The county keeps 4 percent of the 8.5 sales percent sales tax charged in Nassau, the highest rate in the state and one of the highest in the country.
Mr. Parola said that "overly sanguine" budget projections of sales tax revenues had also added to fiscal woes. But it was reliance on one-shots, he said, that had hurt the most.
"What Nassau really needs to implement is a pay-as-you-go financial program so we rely less and less on these nonrecurring one-shots," Mr. Parola said.
In his statement following the Standard and Poor's announcement, Mr. Gulotta said that issues raised by agency would be resolved by an agreement on operation of the public benefit corporation.
Mr. Gulotta also said in his statement that property taxes had been cut or frozen for seven years, while crime was at record lows and welfare rolls were down sharply. He said he would join with Mr. Parola's office and the Legislature to address issues raised by the agencies.
The leader of a group that follows Nassau budget practices applauded the Standard and Poor's rating for prodding county officials into action.
"It was well deserved," said Phoebe Goodman, executive director of the Nassau Citizen's Budget Committee. "I can't think of anything else that would awaken them. I just hope they pay attention."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among its budget woes, Nassau has yet to receive money for its sale of Nassau County Medical Center. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD&POOR'S (66%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (93%); COUNTIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MEDICAID (70%); CONSERVATISM (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



575 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 7; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF ORDER;
Anxiously Looking Ahead to 1999

BYLINE: By DAVID BOUCHIER; The author is an essayist and commentator on public radio.

 BODY:
THIS is the week when newspaper columnists traditionally offer predictions for the coming year. But columnists, like everyone else, are battle-scarred and hung over from the past week's festivities, so their prophecies tend to be gloomy and apocalyptic.
Pessimistic guesses about the future are the growth industry of the modern age. Financial advisers, multimillion-dollar think tanks, TV pundits, market researchers, sociologists and fundamentalist preachers are all eager to tell us just how bad it will be. We can safely ignore them all. Only your mother knows the future. She says, "If you go out without your scarf, you'll get a cold," and you do. But the world isn't run by mothers who would save us from all kinds of foolish choices. So we stumble about in darkness and ignorance, anxiously listening to false prophets. Ever since the anonymous author of Psalms predicted that "The meek shall inherit the earth," prophets have got nothing right. 
 The secret of being a successful prophet is to speak in very vague terms and to forecast only those things that are absolutely guaranteed to happen. This is the time-honored technique of fortune tellers and astrologers, who can assure you with perfect truth that "Troubles lie ahead" or "Relationships will be full of difficulty."
If I wanted to gain a reputation for clairvoyance, I would make the following predictions for Long Island in 1999. There will be more traffic. The HOV lanes will be opened to all drivers, and thousands of new vehicles will instantly materialize out of the fourth dimension and bring them to a standstill. The L.I.R.R. will respond by taking trains out of service, slowing down the ones that are left, and sabotaging the few remaining air-conditioning units. There will be more subdivisions, more strip malls, more pollution scares, more taxes, and many complaints about all of the above. Elected officials will deplore the situation and blame each other. Absolutely nothing will be done.
On the world scene, there will be trouble in the Middle East, trouble with Iraq, trouble in Africa, trouble in Ireland, trouble with China and violence in the Balkans. All of these have been daily headlines since 1899 and can be relied upon to come around again next year. In Washington, a special prosecutor will be appointed to investigate Vice President Gore's campaign finances. Newt Gingrich will make a comeback, and Brad Pitt will never go away.
One thing we can be sure of is that 1999 will be a year of widespread and pointless anxiety. Prophets of doom will descend on us like the proverbial plagues of Egypt -- religious prophets, scientific prophets, economic and sociological and ecological prophets, all crying out that "the sky is falling." These professional Chicken Littles have been predicting the apocalypse in the year 2000 ever since it so annoyingly failed to happen in the year 1000.
In the runup to the millennium, we won't be allowed to think about anything else. Our lives will be put on hold, as we try to cope with the deluge of books, movies, TV specials, newspaper articles and Web pages proclaiming the end of the world. CBS Radio has already run the first of what will be many millennium scare series. In California, the nervous inhabitants of paradise have launched the "Cassandra Project," hoarding gold, arming themselves and moving into the mountains. In Texas, response to millennium chaos is being simulated by the police and emergency services. Even the British Government has advised its citizens to begin stockpiling food.
This silly neurosis is based on the expectation that, in January 2000, millions of computers will become confused by the year 2000 and go catatonic. This is called the Y2K problem. Compared to the stuff predicted in the Book of Revelations, the Y2K problem is nothing. We've only had computers for a few years. If every single one of them crashes, how bad can it be?
Accountants and the I.R.S. may be put out of business, causing universal woe and lamentation. Air-traffic control may collapse at midnight on Dec. 31, 1999, leading to a revival of ocean-liner travel and long-distance buses, and perhaps even encouraging people to stay at home. The Pentagon computers may forget who or where the enemy is and start churning out messages of peace and goodwill. Centenarians will start receiving child support payments, people will be surprised by very early or very late retirements, credit cards will become useless, and your local library will start claiming fines for books a hundred years overdue.
Just a year and four days from now, your home computer may go dark, forcing a painful renewal of family life and personal relationships. On the first day of the year 2000, called the "drop dead point," every gadget we take for granted will be in jeopardy: automatic gasoline pumps, telephones, traffic signals, and even the sacred television itself. Service at malls will be even slower. Getting through the supermarket checkout may take days. But, without work or television, what else will we have to do?
This prospect of traveling back to an earlier and simpler time seems wonderfully attractive. But remember that you can never trust a prophet, especially when he brings good news. The fact is that none of these things will happen, and 2000 will be exactly like 1998. All our worry and anxiety will be wasted.
What I propose is that we just skip the next worrying year, go straight to the millennium and get it over with.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (P. C. Vey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); EGYPT (77%); AFRICA (67%); MIDDLE EAST (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); EGYPT (77%); AFRICA (67%); MIDDLE EAST (67%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WRITERS (91%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); APPOINTMENTS (63%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (55%); BRAD PITT (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



576 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Retailers Discover The Selling Power of the Web

BYLINE: By CAROL STEINBERG

 BODY:
CRISTINA SAGUIN navigated a long distance to buy her husband, Patrick, the perfect Christmas gift this year. Determined to surprise him with a custom fishing reel, Ms. Saguin of Anchorage scouted all the shops around her home town. No luck.
Then, with the shopping days counting down, Ms. Saguin did what many consumers have done this holiday season. She went shopping on the Internet. 
 After 15 minutes of surfing the Web one afternoon, she struck gold: The Fly Fishing Store, situated -- approximately 3,450 miles from Anchorage -- in Bohemia.
It not only stocks, but it also manufactures, the Bill Ballan Heirloom Classic reel that caught her interest. Within one week, she received the $390 order.
"It was very convenient," Ms. Saguin said.
As the number of on-line consumers continues to swell, more Long Island retailers are setting up shop or increasing their presence on the Internet. What they've found is that it typically costs relatively little to reach audiences way beyond their suburban doorsteps.
In 1998, 8.7 million households in the United States will have spent $7.8 billion on-line on travel services and retail goods, other than automobiles, according to Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Ma., research company. By 2003, on-line commerce is expected to involve 40 million households and generate $108 billion, or 6 percent of total retail sales in the United States.
"More small retailers are getting on line primarily because they're hearing so much about it," said James McQuivey, an analyst in on-line retail strategies at Forrester.
Richard DiSilvio, president of Digital Vista, a graphic and Web design company in Massapequa, is seeing more interest among companies.
"As time goes by, they're getting more serious about it," he said. "They see that it's here to stay."
Adding to the appeal is tumbling Web design prices. In general, a Web site can cost as little as $1,500, Mr. DiSilvio said.
When Bill Ballan, owner of the Fly Fishing Store, tackled the Web in 1995, sales were flat at his 3,100-square foot store next to Connetquot River State Park. So he set his eyes on customers outside this fly fisherman's paradise.
"A small retailer today just can't survive on local traffic," said Mr. Ballan, a fishing buff who opened his store six years ago. "You have to be innovative to increase sales."
He took computer training and spent about $8,000 for someone to construct the site (the site is www.flyfishingstore.com). It includes details and photos of rods and reels and a bulletin board for enthusiasts to swap information and used goods.
Thanks to the Internet and the strong economy, sales rose 10 percent his company's first year on the Internet; 20 percent in year two, and 38 percent in year three. In 1998, Mr. Ballan traces $100,000 of $600,000 in total revenues to the Web, including orders from Florida, Mexico, Ireland, and Japan.
Other retailers here also have experienced surprising results. Some are good, some problematic.
The owners of the Capezio Dance Theater Shop in Rockville Center had not really thought about the Internet when Pagelinx, a Web designer in Patchogue, solicited them two years ago. Although store revenues were steady, they figured it would be a good way to advertise and "fun," said Lisa Spagnola, who is co-owner of the store with her mother, Linda. They paid $2,500 and spend $3,600 annually for Pagelinx to maintain the site.
Day one, orders filtered in. The site (www.capeziorvc.com), which displays 500 items, from $6 tights to $62 tap shoes, draws customers worldwide. The home page even plays classical music. Hot spots are the Midwest, where selection is limited, and Japan, where, Ms. Spagnola said, "I heard a $20 leotard here is $80 there."
Items sell for 20 to 25 percent below retail. Ms. Spagnola said that the cost usually evens out for walk-in customers because of a 10 percent discount and no shipping charges.
These days, Ms. Spagnola is holed up in a back room, responding to E-mails and readying orders for shipment. The site captures 4,000 to 7,000 hits a month, and 3 to 12 orders a day. Internet sales compose about $100,000 of its $500,000 in annual revenues, generating enough profit to cover store overhead and then some.
At the Ski Stop Warehouse in Plainview, the Internet has not proven "a real selling tool," said Al Weisinger. The site (www.skistop.com) draws about $3,000 in orders annually, accounting for a mere 2 percent of total revenues.
According to Mr. Weisinger, a major stumbling block is that many of his manufacturers have enforced dealership contracts that prohibit merchandise sales outside one's market. "That's putting a crimp in my sales," he said.
Still, Ski Stop is remaining on the Web because it is a "great informational center" and entices local residents who want "to touch and feel" to come in, Mr. Weisinger said.
George Lang, a former computer consultant and owner of the Good News Book Store and Religious Gifts in East Northport, blames two factors for the mediocre performance of a folksy Web site (www.goodnewsbooks.com) he created four years ago.
First, he believes the majority of his target market are not computer users. And he has barely advertised the virtual store.
Then there's the trust factor in cyberspace.
At the Fly Fishing Store, sales don't always come easy, Mr. Ballan said. He noted that Internet shoppers ask a tremendous amount of questions. He makes four replies to a customer for every sale.
"It's kind of hard to build up the rapport," he said.
Diane Clark-Pitura, a dance educator in Bedford Hills, N.Y., shopped on the Capezio Dance Theater Internet site only after the owner of a defunct local dancewear store said she had heard of the retailer.
"I wasn't raised in the computer generation," said Ms. Clark-Pitura, who has since opened a dance boutique because of the easy access to inventory through Capezio Dance Theater. "This is a whole new world to me, so there is always a little bit of hesitation."
One big question merchants face is whether to make local customers aware of the Web sites.
One Long Island retailer intentionally keeps his year-old Web site a secret from the community in which he has operated a home improvement and design product store for 30 years. For that reason, he spoke only on the condition of anonymity.
"I am not looking to cannibalize local retail business with a Web presence," he said.
He said he can afford to sell products on the Web at 20 percent to 40 percent below retail because of lower overhead and it is not as sales- and people-intensive.
Despite his secrecy, some local customers have stumbled upon the site. In those cases, he will honor the lower prices. "It has not become an issue yet," he said. Meanwhile, Internet sales are growing at a rate of 5 percent a month.
Graffiti, a clothing retailer, does not consider the Web a separate entity. It wants to reach girls worldwide who do not have access to similar fashion merchandise, plus those who frequent its stores in Commack and Dix Hills. So it features its Web address (www.graffiti-online.com) on business cards and marketing material. The Web accounts for 30 percent of sales.
Adam Herman, the company's controller and Web manager, figures residents will visit the stores anyway to avoid shipping costs. But making them aware of Graffiti on-line builds customer loyalty.
"When the girls go away or go away to school, they will take this store with them via the Web,' he said.
Now, some companies that initially tested the Internet are moving forward more aggressively.
Mr. Lang, for example, said he soon plans to market his bookstore's site. Graffiti is adding contests and a chat room where teen-agers can discuss styles or get fashion advice.
When computer-savvy Tracey Gera of Gera Gardens in Mount Sinai designed the store's Web site (www.geragardens.com) two years ago, for about $500, it only provided limited information and did not accept orders.
Now realizing the Web's power, Ms. Gera -- an addicted cyberspace shopper herself -- recently hired someone to upgrade the site for $1,000. The revamped pages will display about 40 percent of the store's lawn furniture, fountains and garden ornaments, and will be encrypted to accept credit card purchases.
Tom Jakab and Todd Morena are reversing the traditional retail-to-Internet path. In a cost-saving move, Mr. Jackab, a graphic artist, and Mr. Morena, a personnel executive, went on the Internet in November 1997, to introduce their product -- socks that snap together to avoid lost sock syndrome. It is linked to quirky sites, like the Bureau of Missing Socks.
SnapSock (www.snapsock.com), run out of Mr. Jakab's garage in Merrick, averages $700 to $1,000 in weekly revenues, or 140 pairs of socks, from the Web and a toll-free number.
Bolstered by this success, the entrepreneurs plan to open a store in Nassau County this spring. Mr. Morena expects some local customers to swap on-line orders for shopping the old-fashioned way.
But, he said, "It doesn't matter which way the sales come in, as long as they come in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Ballan, owner of the Fly Fishing Store in Bohemia, has seen revenues rise since he started a Web site in 1995. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SPORT FISHING (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (88%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (74%); STATE PARKS (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (68%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



577 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2222 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Find the Island a Mixed Blessing;
A Life Looking Over Shoulders In a Land Of Freedom

BYLINE: By MARY REINHOLZ

 BODY:
AT first glance, the one-story East Patchogue house where Jose and Rosa Ramos live with their son is the picture-perfect love nest of a young couple pursuing the American dream. But an air of anxiety pervades their $950-a-month rental, which they share with two other relatives. Mr. Ramos is subject to arrest at any time.
Mr. Ramos, a 28-year-old cook in Middle Village, fled his native El Salvador in 1993. Soon after being taken to San Diego by a smuggler who charged $3,500 for the service, Mr. Ramos was detained by immigration officials and then released to be united with his brother on Long Island while he challenged the Government's case for deporting him. 
 Mr. Ramos's argument for asylum was that he feared he might be killed by former guerrillas who killed two of his uncles and grandfather during the Salvadoran civil war of the 1980's. He also argued for an exception because of the congenital heart disease suffered by his 3-year-old son, Jonathan. But he lost his fight in November, 1997, when an immigration panel rejected his last appeal, ruling that he had no reason to flee a war that is over.
"You can't sleep well, you can't eat well, and when you open the door, you know they can come at any minute and take you away," Mr. Ramos said in an interview conducted to the beat of his right foot, which drummed nervously on the hardwood floor of his brightly decorated living room. Mrs. Ramos, 24 and also an undocumented Salvadoran immigrant who first met her husband on Long Island, sat nearby with Jonathan, an American citizen by birth.
Variations on Mr. Ramos's case are repeated over and over again among the Central Americans who live on Long Island, who are estimated to number 100,000 and to be the third largest population of Central American immigrants in the United States, behind Los Angeles and Washington.
Hundreds of Central Americans are clustered in Brentwood, Carle Place, Freeport, Glen Cove, Hempstead, Inwood, Port Washington, Westbury, Deer Park, Central Islip and Riverhead. Most work as landscapers, nannies, porters, factory and construction workers. Others have started their own businesses. Franklin Street in Hempstead, where the Salvadoran government briefly set up an office in 1996, has so many Salvadoran restaurants and clothing stores that it has been nicknamed Little El Salvador.
Many of the Central Americans on the Island arrived in the 1960's and have become American citizens, or at least have received the green card that signifies legal residence in this country. But among a new wave of people who began fleeing the human rights abuses in El Salvador and Guatemala in the 1980's and wound up on Long Island are thousands who remain illegal immigrants.
The undocumented immigrants -- 20,000 to 30,000, according to Patrick Young, director of the Central American Refugee Center, a Hempstead-based advocacy group -- occupy the bottom rung of Long Island's economic and political ladder. Living outside the law and with few skills, they must take menial jobs that pay cash under the table and are easily exploited by employers, landlords and merchants who can abuse their rights with virtual impunity, knowing that the immigrants are unlikely to go to the authorities. Many undocumented immigrants are afraid of being deported or put in detention centers if they call official attention to themselves.
Michael Hoffman, director of the Workplace project in Hempstead, a nonprofit center that helps to organize undocumented Central American workers, said the coyotes, or people smugglers, are just "the first in a series of exploiters and abusers that immigrants come in contact with. After the coyotes, they meet with people who give them highfaluting promises of green cards after they pay X number of dollars and employment agencies where they're offered jobs, and very often never get them even though they've put up money to get them. Very often women domestics get $1.50 an hour, below the minimum wage," from employers who know that the immigrants "come without documents and won't complain."
What disturbs Mr. Ramos most is his belief that immigration judges and officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service don't seem to understand or care that his being deported would break up his family and affect his ability to provide for Jonathan, who underwent surgery last year.
"I told the judge I want to stay here because in El Salvador it's difficult to get the kind of medication that my son needs," Mr. Ramos said. "Maybe there are doctors in a special hospital there, but we can't pay for that."
Mr. Ramos said he makes about $250 a week in salary, plus as much as $100 more in tips.
"Maybe immigration thinks I can leave and my son can follow me," he continued. "But that's not the point. We are a family. He's half of my life. I can't understand why these people think like that. They don't seem to care."
Asked whether the child's condition had a bearing on the father's immigration case, an I.N.S. spokesman, Russ Bergeron, said Mr. Ramos "has the right to ask for extraordinary relief based on the extraordinary medical circumstances of his child."
Mr. Ramos's lawyer, David M. Sperling of Huntington, does not view Mr. Ramos's case as particularly unusual, although he describes the I.N.S.'s treatment of Mr. Ramos as "very shabby."
"This is a case that cried out for a humanitarian response," he said, "and the cold-hearted response that Jose has received doesn't make me optimistic.
"The I.N.S. has this enforcement mentality, and they're not looking at the individual factors," he continued. "In many cases families are being torn apart, with mothers and fathers deported and children who have no one taking care of them."
Mr. Ramos and other Central American immigrants facing deportation have won a breather from the I.N.S. in the form of a moratorium on deportations of citizens of Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala, the countries hardest hit by Hurricane Mitch in late October. But the moratorium ends on Jan. 7.
Mr. Young said that the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, which went into effect in April, 1997, further limits the Central Americans' chances of obtaining legal residence. The statute requires that applicants seeking a "cancellation of removal" must have been in the United States continuously for 10 years and prove that deportation would create "unusual hardship" for American citizens, such as a spouse or relative. Under the old law, applicants had to be in the country seven years and were required to prove that deportation would result in "extreme hardship" only for themselves.
George Fishmond, chief counsel of the House subcommittee on immigration, said that one of the aims of the 1997 act was "making it more difficult for illegal aliens to have jobs in this country."
"Another method was to make the standards for illegal aliens to stay in this country less lenient," Mr. Fishmond added. "It is not the duty of the U.S. to take in every one of the billions of people in the world who have economic difficulty. We just can't accommodate all these people."
But the new act still leaves a confusing array of legal statuses for the Central American immigrants:
*Undocumented people, who have no protection.
*Those with asylum applications pending, who often get work authorization from the I.N.S. Many in this group are beneficiaries of a legal settlement involving the American Baptist Church, which filed a class action in 1990 to stave off mass deportations of Salvadorans and Guatemalans and to permit those immigrants to apply for asylum.
*Those eligible to apply for protection against deportation under the 1997 Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, which gives blanket amnesty to Nicaraguans and Cubans who arrived in the United States before December, 1995, and offers Salvadorans and Guatemalans the opportunity to apply for suspension of deportation under the more relaxed regulations in effect before the immigration reform of 1997.
Central Americans who win their cases under the Baptist Church settlement or the relief act, noted Mr. Young, are in the "best position" to win permanent residency because they can then apply for a green card and five years later (three years if a spouse is a citizen) can apply for United States citizenship -- provided, he said, that they have "good moral character and can pass a civics and English test."
A 33-year-old Honduran woman living in Westbury described in an interview the game of chance she plays as a working mother who could be picked up at any time by the I.N.S. for having overstayed a Sept. 3 deportation order.
The woman, who insisted that she not be identified, said that she came to America in 1989, after her husband "disappeared" in El Salvador when she was pregnant with her third daughter. She said she left the children with her mother and wound up swimming across the Rio Grande, later taking a bus to live with relatives on Long Island.
Now she works at a cleaners and has an apartment in Westbury, a third-floor walkup that rents for $1,100 a month. The five rooms house seven people, including the woman's daughters, who joined her last year, and her pregnant 27-year-old sister, a recent arrival who was given six months to leave the country after I.N.S. officials caught her illegally crossing the border.
"I don't want to go back home," she said. "There are no jobs there. My children are here and I don't have money to bring them back. I trust in God, so I have no fear."
"The myth is that undocumented people come here to get on welfare, to get benefits," said Sister Judy Mannix, a Roman Catholic nun who works with Spanish-speaking people at St. Bridget's Church in Westbury and acted as an interpreter for the Honduran woman. "The reality is they're here because they want to work. They're ineligible for most benefits unless there's an emergency situation like a heart attack."
Mr. Bergeron of the I.N.S. noted that the traumatic experiences of undocumented immigrants were often the consequence of entering the United States illegally. "That," he said, "is why we have a formal system of immigration designed to insure that people who come to the U.S. have the necessary legal and social systems, which insure that they can resettle here without fear of exploitation." Legal immigration, he said, allows them to be admitted to the United States "either because of a petition filed by a family member or employer."
Many undocumented immigrants have achieved a measure of middle-class success. Marcelino Moreira, 29, a Salvadoran who came to the United States in the 1980's, and his wife, Daria, 33, who arrived in 1990, make a combined $33,000 a year -- enough to support their four children in a rented Brentwood house on a tree-lined street.
Mr. Moreira, who has worked for eight years as an operator at a paper factory in Hauppauge, making $8 an hour on a day shift, owns his own car. His wife works an eight-hour shift in a Syosset factory at night. In halting English, she said, "I want to go to school and get a good job that pays well."
But the couple, both of whom have temporary work authorization papers from the I.N.S., still could be deported if they fail to win their asylum cases.
"My children would suffer in El Salvador," Mr. Moreira said. "The food is not the same as it is here. You've got health inspectors here that check the food. They don't have that in El Salvador. Every time we have the children visit relatives in El Salvador, they have come back with some kind of illness. And when they come back, they don't want to return."
Mrs. Moreira, whose first job was as a live-in housekeeper in Port Washington, said she believes some people in her neighborhood regard her as a welfare recipient.
"A woman in the laundromat said that," she said. "But I never take welfare."
In a decade of work, Juan Alfero, a 27-year-old Salvadoran immigrant, saved up enough money from his 60-hour-a-week job as a busboy in a Lindenhurst restaurant to make a $23,000 down payment on a $189,000 house in Brentwood.
"It was a big dream to come to this country to work," Mr. Alfero said, adding that he worked in Long Island restaurants as an undocumented immigrant for two years, receiving cash from his employers, before he applied for political asylum and obtained work authorization.
"After I got that card from immigration, it was like starting a new life," he said. "I got a driver's license. It's hard to live in this county without any I.D. And you have to learn a different language."
His wife, Dina, works 40 hours a week at a Deer Park factory, manufacturing guitar cords and bringing work home. "We're planning to take a vacation if we get residency," Mr. Alfero said. "We're going to save our money and send our kids to college."
"Salvadorans have resourcefulness," said Juan Carlos Murillo, 30, a Salvadoran who works as a counselor in the Brentwood office of the Central American Refugee Center while fighting his own deportation case. "They have kids in the schools, they're circulating money, they're part of the community. Some of them live the American dream."
But for people like Mr. Alfero, he said, "it's temporary." If Mr. Alfero is deported, "he could lose everything, his house, his dream."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose and Rosa Ramos with son, Jonathan, at their home in East Patchoque. Mr. Ramos, a cook in middle village, faces deportation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EL SALVADOR (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN STREET BAKERY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EL SALVADOR (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); GUATEMALA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); DEPORTATION (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); CIVIL WAR (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); SMUGGLING (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); HEART DISEASE (52%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSA RAMOS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



578 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 38; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN REVIEW: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Public Space, Private Space And Anti-Space

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:

1. KIASMA -- Steven Holl's new museum of contemporary art in Helsinki takes its name from a neurological configuration that links perception and conception. That's a good point of departure for an art museum, and Holl has turned his into a major urban event. He has carved a set of powerfully sensuous galleries within a curving shell that animates what was formerly a dead zone in the Finnish capital's core. 

2. HOUSE IN BORDEAUX -- A physically disabled client has inspired Rem Koolhaas to create a shelter from shelter: a house of concrete, glass and steel that evades conventional ideas of refuge, comfort and normalcy. The building's central feature, a 12-foot-square moving platform, enables the client to move freely among the house's three levels as it alters the flow of space inside.
 
3. COMPETITION -- Phyllis Lambert, founding director of the Canadian Center for Architecture, in Montreal, has begun a program aimed at urban revitalization. Every three years, she will sponsor a juried competition in a different city. The first, to be held in New York next year, will invite six architects to develop ideas for the west side of midtown Manhattan, a district dominated by tunnels, highways, overpasses and other fragments of urban infrastructure. If ultimately approved, this would be the first wide-ranging urban project New York has seen in 30 years.
 
4. PAPER PLANT -- Think how much fun it would be to read the newspaper if you knew that the paper it was printed on had been made in a plant designed by the brilliant young architect Maya Lin. Ms. Lin's plan, as yet unrealized, would draw on the most advanced recycling technology and could produce about 50 percent of the newsprint consumed in New York City. Also, you would be able to look down on the plant from the Triborough Bridge and see a fountain, using the water required by the recycling process, glinting in the sun.
 
5. ZAHA HADID -- The selection of Zaha Hadid's design for the Cincinnati Museum of Contemporary Art brings further glory to a city already enriched by recent buildings by Peter Eisenman, Frank Gehry, Michael Graves and Harry Cobb. Hadid's design recalls one of Klee's magic-square paintings rendered into three dimensions. A broad ramp-way switch-backing up one side of the building will convey visitors past a honeycomb of galleries, while quirky cuts in the floor will punctuate the 10-story structure with exclamations of light and space.
 
6. GRAND CENTRAL -- The great mother of infrastructure, back in all her Beaux-Arts glory. But with all the fuss being made over the Grand Concourse and its jade-green astrological ceiling, let us not overlook that architectural and gustatory gem, the Oyster Bar. With its beautiful ceiling of vaulted tiles, designed and built by the Guastavinos, this spot is second only to the Four Seasons in architectural distinction. James Bond thought it the best restaurant in New York. Here he first uttered his immortal instruction to the barman: "Shaken, not stirred." Or was it the other way around? Bless the architects of the restoration, Beyer Blinder Belle, for uncovering the ramps that lead the weary traveler down to a warming, briny dish of oyster stew.
 
7. ELLSWORTH KELLY -- The best architecture show of the year was Matthew Marks's presentation of "Sculpture for a Large Wall," a 65-foot piece designed by Ellsworth Kelly in 1957 for the Transportation Building in Penn Center, the massive urban-renewal project in downtown Philadelphia. Mr. Kelly was paid $200 for his services, and when Mr. Marks encountered the piece, some 40 years after its creation, the Transportation Building was boarded up. The work represents a moment when Kelly was committed to an entirely Utopian idea of collaboration between artists and architects. And even wrenched loose from its architectural setting, the sculpture retains Kelly's optimistic view of the power of abstract art.
 
8. JENNIFER RAAB -- The low point of this and many other years was reached when Jennifer Raab, chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission, instructed the developer Donald Trump to build a 1930's skyscraper on the site of the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South. A person who could say such a thing has no business being in landmarks preservation, because she has no sense of history. She is unable to distinguish between a landmark and an ersatz version of one, and she evidently conceives of architecture as a practice tantamount to arranging throw pillows on a sofa.
 
9. COLISEUM -- Skidmore, Owings, Merrill's design for the Coliseum site on Columbus Circle perfectly epitomizes the architecture of denial. Modeled after the Majestic and the Century, Irwin S. Chanin's great apartment towers on Central Park West, this design represents an utter lack of awareness that New York today differs dramatically from the city in the 1930's, and that this difference demands architectural interpretation. In particular, the design denies the extent to which the city is now governed by congestion, density and bulk. Should this building rise in its present form, we will all hate ourselves for tolerating structures so flagrantly out of touch with the imagination we came here to exercise.
 
10. CITY HALL PARK -- At a time when the discourse of architecture revolves around the issue of public space, the mayor of the world's greatest city has seen fit throughout this year to turn New York into a demonstration project of anti-public space. Giuliani Stadium has a nice ring, but the likelihood is that this mayor will be remembered for the barricades, bollards and fences that he and his police commissioners have caused to be placed around the town. The hurricane fences, the dirty concrete barricades that now surround City Hall, do bristle with a certain Gehryesque charm. But this is no Bilbao. Thick walls and thin skins: this is the driving sensibility emanating from a public official who had, and lost, the opportunity to create great public works. In reviewing the record of this administration, one is tempted to paraphrase something Edmund Wilson once wrote: There is something going on, on the higher plane, that halfway compels his respect, but he does not know what it is, and in any case he can never get up there himself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The renovated Grand Central Station, in all its Beaux-Arts glory, above, Steven Holl's new museum of contemporary art in Helsinki, left, and Ellsworth Kelly's "Sculpture for a Large Wall" (installed at the Matthew Marks Gallery, New York, in April), below, were among the year's architectural highlights. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Paul Warchol; Matthew Marks Gallery, New York); If you don't like a space in this Rem Koolhaas house, just wait a minute. (Hans Welemann/Office for Metropolitan Architecture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); PAPER MILLS (69%); NEWSPRINT (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%); 

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



579 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2326 words

HEADLINE: HIGHER EDUCATION;
Challenges Facing New Jersey's 7 New College Presidents

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS

 BODY:
Dr. Stuart Cook became the president of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey last month, while Dr. R. Barbara Gitenstein, currently the executive vice president and provost of Drake University in Iowa, will become president of the College of New Jersey on Saturday. They are just the newest in a group of college and university presidents who have assumed office in the state this year.
"We are losing some committed leaders in higher education," said Jeanne Oswald, deputy executive director of the state Commission on Higher Education. "But new leadership always brings a level of revitalization for the campus community and for the entire system." 
 The new presidents spoke about changes planned for their schools, the effect of the Internet on higher education and how to keep New Jersey high school graduates from leaving the state for college.
 
Stuart Cook
University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey
 
WHO
Dr. Stuart Cook, who became president of the University on Nov. 23, had been acting president since July 1. He was founding chairman of the Department of Neurosciences at U.M.D.N.J.-New Jersey Medical School. He had been acting president since July.
The board of trustees voted unanimously in November to have him succeed Dr. Stanley S. Bergen Jr., the only other president to head the health sciences university since its founding in 1970. It includes three medical schools and four teaching hospitals.
 
WHY HE SOUGHT THE JOB PERMANENTLY
"When I was asked to serve in an interim position, I was not particularly interested in being president. I had my patients and my research. But I got involved and began to feel I had something to contribute," he said.
CHANGES Although he expects no fundamental changes, Dr. Stuart said he might emphasize research a bit more than his predecessor had, particularly since the National Institute of Health is doubling its research budget.
 
KEEPING STUDENTS IN NEW JERSEY
Dr. Cook feels U.M.D.N.J. is already keeping students in-state because it is competitive with other universities in health-science fields. The university also has a commitment to accepting an ethnically diverse population that reflects the state's population. "We have a high school in Camden" he said, referring to the Medical Arts High School, affiliated with U.M.D.N.J.'s osteopathy school, "that has had tremendous success in placing students in college, and we want to start a science high school in Newark." .
 
MANAGED CARE AND THE UNIVERSITY
If less money flows into hospitals because of managed care, that affects the rest of the institution. "But the university hospitals are still financially viable," he said, "and it has not affected the academic side at all. The university has multiple missions, but teaching is the most important."
 
R. Barbara Gitenstein
The College of New Jersey
 
WHO
Dr. R. Barbara Gitenstein will take over as president of the College of New Jersey in Trenton next Saturday. She has been chief academic officer and chief operating officer of Drake University in Iowa. Before that, she was associate provost at the State University of New York at Oswego. A professor of English, she has written extensively on Jewish and American literature.
 
CHANGES
Dr. Gitenstein feels the number of new presidents at New Jersey universities and colleges is simply an outgrowth of the number of long-term presidents in office until recently. The College of New Jersey already is considered a "public Ivy" institution, meaning one with a good academic reputation. "I'd like to continue to move up in that regard," she said. "I also want to extend the diversity of the college, racially, ethnically and geographically."
Dr. Gitenstein succeeds Dr. Harold W. Eickhoff, president since 1980, who had been criticized by some faculty members for his leadership style.
"There is a natural tendency to have disagreements between faculty and the administration," Dr. Gitenstein said; the conflict did not deter her from taking the job.
 
HOW PUBLIC AND PRIVATE DIFFER
Drake University is a private college and T.C.N.J. is public, so Dr. Gitenstein will have to work with the Legislature. She says she is boning up on New Jersey issues. "But before Drake, I was always in public schools and I wanted to come back here," she said. "There is a different energy level on the East Coast that plays out in the student body and staff. You can take more risks in curriculum."
 
KEEPING STUDENTS HERE
This is a question the Legislature will have to continue to address, she said. It is important to keep good students in New Jersey schools because "most students stay in the state where they graduate. They get jobs there and pay taxes there," she said.
 
Susan Cole
Montclair State University
 
WHO
In September, Dr. Susan Cole became the first woman to be president of Montclair State University, which has 13,000 students. This was a return to New Jersey for Dr. Cole, who previously served as vice president of university administration and personnel at Rutgers University. A professor of English, she more recently was president of Metropolitan State University in Minneapolis-St. Paul.
 
CHANGES
Dr. Cole will work with corporations to see that students are being prepared for real jobs. "I want to focus on the university as a citizen of the community to be a partner with government and public schools and with the private sector in addressing social issues," she said, "which is something that has just begun."
 
KEEPING STUDENTS IN NEW JERSEY
The Legislature needs to focus on the quality of the state's public colleges and universities. "Given the density of the state population, it has not invested enough in schools," Dr. Cole said. Schools that are in disrepair will not attract students, she said, and the goal should be to attract students from other states as well.
 
THE INTERNET
"We can only see so far into the future, but technology is not going to replace colleges," Dr. Cole predicted. "It will enhance instruction, but young students need the interaction with their peers and adult students prefer to be in a classroom rather than being isolated. A computer makes it easier for a student who cannot reach the campus or to do independent research, but it is not a substitute for attending classes."
 
Donald J. Farish
Rowan University
 
WHO
Dr. Donald J. Farish took over as president of Rowan University in Glassboro in July. He was previously provost and vice president for academic affairs since 1990 at Sonoma State University in California. With a background in entomology, zoology and biology, Dr. Farish is credited with incorporating new technology into the undergraduate curriculum at Sonoma and increasing student services, which led to an increase in the rate of student retention from 74 percent to 82 percent. He is the author of six books and more than a dozen scientific articles in magazines and journals.
 
CHANGES
Rowan University is one the few institutions of higher education in southern New Jersey, which is the reason it recently expanded the courses and degrees offered and became a university. Dr. Farish would like to continue that expansion. "I wanted to come here because everything seems to be going on on the East Coast and it felt like we were getting the news in California a day late. Rowan has unlimited potential."
 
THE INTERNET
The Internet is changing the way higher education is delivered," said Dr. Farish, who was part of a virtual university (one that offered on-line courses without a physical campus) in California. "Some people see this as a panacea because then there would be no infrastructure costs. It helps working adults, who have tremendous constraints on their time. But it will not replace traditional education; it will extend it. Courses are making major use of material from the Internet and we can import courses from other campuses."
 
HOW CALIFORNIA AND NEW JERSEY DIFFER
"In California the overwhelming number of students are enrolled in public schools and one chancellor oversees 350,000 students with everyone kept on a tight leash," Dr. Farish said. "In New Jersey there is a much more loose affiliation of schools that have more autonomy, so each campus takes on a different coloration."
 
EEPING STUDENTS IN NEW JERSEY
oo many students leave the state, either because they cannot get into schools here or they think the education is better elsewhere, Dr. Farish said. For those who feel they can get a better education elsewhere, "they are wrong and we have to work on our credibility." For those who cannot get into schools here, the Legislature has to address the problem of creating more room, he said.
 
Gail O. Mellow
Gloucester County College
 
WHO
Dr. Gail O. Mellow became the fourth president of Gloucester County College in Sewell last month. She is the first woman to hold the position at the college, which has 5,000 students. She was previously on the faculty of community colleges in Connecticut and New York. With a background in social psychology, she has written extensively on women's issues. While serving on vocational-research and private-industry councils in Connecticut, she introduced a program that helped develop a regional economic planning process.
 
CHANGES
Dr. Mellow has started a strategic planning process at Gloucester County College, with 64 people from the business community to determine where the college needs to go in the next century. One result was the school starting a safety-training program for the petrochemical industry, a large employer in Gloucester County, she said. "We asked the industry what they needed."
 
THE INTERNET
'Technology will be used as a support system. Campuses will still be important. It is difficult to take an orchestra class from your bedroom," Dr. Mellow said, "but the boundaries are going to be more fluid. We have high-performing high school seniors from schools near here going to college classes through technology, which creates a connection between high school and college."
 
KEEPING STUDENTS IN NEW JERSEY
For county colleges, that is not a challenge, Dr. Mellow said, because county colleges provide educational services for those students staying in the area and for those who go away to college but decide that it is not the right atmosphere for them. "We keep people connected to education and we help root people in the community," she said.
 
Kenneth L. Ender
Cumberland County College
 
WHO
Dr. Kenneth L. Ender assumed the presidency of Cumberland County College, in Vineland, which has about 2,500 students, in August. Before that, he was vice president for academic affairs at Richland Community College in Decatur, Ill. He also has held administrative positions at Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland, at Cleveland State University and at Virginia Commonwealth University, and has taught urban studies.
 
CHANGES
Dr. Ender is coordinating the college's curriculum with business and industrial leaders in Cumberland County and is introducing more technical education.
 
HOW HIS OTHER SCHOOLS DIFFERED
With a background in both community colleges and four-year schools, Dr. Ender has been associated with schools in three other states."In the places I come from higher education was more centralized," he said. "There is a strong sense of autonomy here."
 
KEEPING STUDENTS IN NEW JERSEY
"Our students are the ones who left the state and then find themselves back here for some reason, or they are the ones who got a four-year degree but now find they need specific technical skills to get a job," Dr. Ender said. "They come here to get those skills. A lot of the dynamics of our classrooms comes from the mix of focused, mature learners and the young students. Their need to relate to each other brings a whole different conversation to the table."
 
THE INTERNET
"The infrastructure of colleges is not going to go away. A campus brings a set of support services and a sense of community that is part of the human experience," he said.
 
Francis Raftery
College of St. Elizabeth
 
WHO
Sister Francis Raftery was inaugurated as the president of the College of St. Elizabeth in Morristown in April. For 22 years she was chairwoman of the teacher-education program at the college, then left for 10 years to work in an administrative position in health care as part of the Sisters of Charity in Paterson. She is now the spokeswoman for the largest program of building and renovation ever undertaken by the college, which now has 521 women in the Women's College, which is the original school founded by the Sisters of Charity in 1899, and 832 students in other divisions.
 
HOW THE COLLEGE CHANGED IN HER ABSENCE
"It had become a global community with students from Bulgaria, Russia, Ireland, Japan and elsewhere. The college had grown with seven new graduate programs," she said. "The curriculum had changed to include international studies, languages, science and business."
But some things are the same. "At the heart of our mission is that we are a Catholic college. For every decision we make, the question is how does this forward our mission, and that keeps us true to our founding values."
 
KEEPING STUDENTS IN NEW JERSEY
The question of keeping students in the state is not as important as finding the right kind of student who wants to attend a Catholic college, Sister Francis said. "We want students who are serious about becoming leaders and influencing the next century."
 
THE INTERNET
The Internet is becoming invaluable in that it can connect students of a small college with other institutions of higher education. "We offer distance learning and are connected to 40 colleges, but what we do best is the interaction between students and faculty. Technology is adding to our curriculum, not replacing it," Sister Francis said.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (93%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (84%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (84%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); DENTISTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); HOSPITALS (87%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); BUDGETS (62%); INTERNET & WWW (54%); 

PERSON: R BARBARA GITENSTEIN (91%); STUART COOK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



580 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Into the Breach

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE 

 BODY:
BIG corporations dominate the New York skyline with their swaggering processions of office towers. For most New Yorkers, however, it is the smaller companies that define the city's styles and rhythms. This is a town packed tight with people who have the money and the attitude to demand special goods and services, and with entrepreneurs more than happy to indulge them.
For example, where else but in New York, Park Slope to be exact, would there be a shop that sells nothing but water? The Water Store on Fifth Avenue between Third and Fourth Streets was opened in June by two Caribbean immigrants. Patrick Wilson, an owner from Grenada, says the store offers four kinds of water: distilled, spring, deep well and carbon-filtered New York tap. Prices are $4 to $6.25 for five-gallon jugs, which can be delivered. 
 "When you look at the water contamination, you know there will be a yearning for clean water," Mr. Wilson said. "We wanted to be in on the front line of this."
A store devoted to water may seem odd, but at least everyone gets thirsty at times. Then there is a shop on East 149th Street, near the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, limited to clothing and memorabilia related to Hispanic sports stars. The Latino Sports Clubhouse opened its doors about 16 months ago. The owner, Julio Pabon, a former aide to Andrew Stein when Mr. Stein was president of the City Council, said the 1998 baseball season put his shop on the map.
"Wherever Sammy Sosa is, I want to kiss him," Mr. Pabon said of the Dominican slugger who hit 66 home runs for the Chicago Cubs this year, second only to Mark McGwire's record 70. "This was our definitive year."
Another much larger ethnic business, and one that hit critical mass in 1998, is Golden Krust Caribbean Bakery. It has a factory in the Eastchester section of the Bronx and about 35 fast-food restaurants, including 16 franchises, in five states. The owner of the parent company, Lowell Hawthorne, 38, said his goal was to have his meat patties, curried goat and coco bread replace the Big Mac. It may seem like a wild dream, but Golden Krust already sells 3.6 million patties a year to the New York school system.
"We spent a lot of money on advertising in 1998," said Mr. Hawthorne, who is particularly proud of the new Golden Krust restaurants on Chambers Street and 23d Street in Manhattan. "And the two Manhattan locations gave us a lot of visibility."
Tourism was a highly visible business in 1998, and one sign of the boom emerged in Flatbush, Brooklyn, where a former curriculum writer for the school system is offering rooms in local houses to foreigners. Her name is Helayne Soloway Wagner and she founded Homestay New York late last year. Ms. Wagner said she placed clients in some 40 homes this summer, most of them in Brooklyn, for from $95 to $125 per day, double occupancy. Ms. Wagner has put a few clients up in her house, prompting her grown son to ask if he now has to make an appointment when he wants to visit.
Clemson Brown of Flatbush was also hard at work in 1998, trying to help the local traveler. His company, Universal Telecommunications, which he founded in the mid-80's, owns and operates 480 pay phones in every borough except Staten Island. The phone company got about 40 percent of the $1 million he took in last year. Maintaining phones on city streets can be tough, but Mr. Brown said he enjoys doing business in New York. "It's aggressive competition," he said. "But I've carved out a niche."
Kent Diebolt offers a service that is in demand given New York's large supply of older buildings. His company, Vertical Access, performs building inspections for architects and engineers, using rope-climbing techniques to get to otherwise inaccessible places. On one September afternoon, Mr. Diebolt, who opened an office in Greenwich Village last summer, hung from the bell tower of Marble Collegiate Church at Fifth Avenue and 29th Street and inspected the facade inch by inch.
"It's amazing what you can smell up there," he said. "Somebody's perfume, somebody's pipe. The same perfume a girlfriend used to wear in high school."
Such boutique businesses are more common in the city these days, but there is still some heavy industry. This summer, A. L. Eastmond & Sons, a manufacturer of industrial boilers and steel storage tanks in Hunts Point, the Bronx, expanded its operation by 58,000 square feet. The president of the 73-year-old company, Leon Eastmond, said the new space would be used for its boiler cleaning operations, among other things.
"It pains me to see all the industry that's left the city," said Mr. Eastmond, 72, whose father founded the company. "But we're right here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Running a pay phone company in New York is a lesson in the art of "aggressive competition," says Clemson Brown of Flatbush. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); Julio Pabon, right (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times), credits Sammy Sosa with helping to make this "the definitive year" for Mr. Pabon's Bronx store. Kent Diebolt, below (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times), uses rope-climbing techniques to inspect buildings. Lowell Hawthorne, below right, dreams of besting the Big Mac. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Helayne Soloway Wagner, right, finds local lodging for foreign visitors like Corrado and Valeria Martuscelli. (Salimah Ali for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (88%); GRENADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN KRUST CARIBBEAN BAKERY & GRILL INC (53%); NEW YORK (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (88%); GRENADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS; ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BASEBALL (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); CITIES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); FAST FOOD (70%); ATHLETES (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); WATER POLLUTION (68%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); CURRICULA (65%); BAKERIES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LEWINE, EDWARD DAVID DAVIS (74%); ANDREW W STEIN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



581 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: Correction

 BODY:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about the possibility of future financial crises around the world, misstated the amount of business debt in the United States at the end of the third quarter. It was $5.13 trillion, not $522 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; CORRECTION STORIES ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



582 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Playing a New Health Care Tune

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
WALTER A. ZELMAN, a self-described health policy wonk and a sometime composer of political-parody ditties, wrote a song about Jerry Brown, the former California Governor, who was running for President against Bill Clinton in 1992.
"He's Jerry Brown and he's always a-changin'," Mr. Zelman sang, borrowing, presciently as it turned out, from "The Times They Are A-Changin,' " the Bob Dylan anthem. Last month, in his latest metamorphosis, Mr. Brown was elected Mayor of Oakland. 
 Wally Zelman, too, is no slouch at switching careers. He went from consumer activist, battling for adoption of a Canadian-style health insurance system in the 1970's, to market-based managed-care advocate in the early 1990's, as a deputy state insurance commissioner of California and later, an official on the Hillary Rodham Clinton health policy team.
Recently, after a stint as an author and academic lecturer, he was appointed president and chief executive of the California Association of Health Plans, a managed-care lobby, a move that some former colleagues viewed as defecting to the enemy.
While there is nothing new about the revolving door that spins Government regulatory officials into industry and retreads prosecutors as criminal-defense lawyers, Mr. Zelman's switch created a special stir in the intense world of health policy.
"I'm really glad he came over to our side," said Charles N. Kahn 3d, president of the Health Industry Association of America, a national trade group that includes several California health maintenance organizations.
"I think it was a terrific hire," added Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, a group of H.M.O.'s and other managed-care companies. "He's smart, he's hard-working, and he has a very high degree of integrity."
Perhaps not surprisingly, insurance industry critics took a harsher tack. "He's sort of a man without a country," said Harvey Rosenfield, president of the California-based Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights, which favors tighter government regulation of H.M.O.'s. "I would rather be dog catcher than represent the H.M.O.'s. He's got a thankless task trying to protect an industry that is doomed."
Mr. Zelman, who celebrated his 55th birthday last Sunday, was born in Long Island City, N.Y. He was student body president at the Little Red Schoolhouse, a private school in Manhattan's Greenwich Village; graduated from the University of Michigan in 1965; studied for a year at the London School of Economics, and earned a Ph.D. in political science from the University of California at Los Angeles. His doctoral thesis was on the impact of Vietnam War critics on the United States Senate.
He let his red hair grow bushy and taught at several California colleges. In the 1970's, he campaigned for Tom Hayden, the antiwar protester and a defendant in the Chicago Seven trial, in his unsuccessful bid to become a United States Senator.
From the late 70's to the late 80's, Mr. Zelman was executive director of California Common Cause. At its parties, he handed out "Flak Catcher Awards" to consumer activists who stood firm when attacked by business lobbyists. He also played the piano and sang "The F. and I. Blues," his tune that poked fun at bankers on the finance and insurance committee of the legislature.
After helping Mr. Rosenfield win voter approval of Proposition 103, which made Insurance Commissioner an elective office in California, Mr. Zelman ran for the job. He was defeated by John Garamendi, who appointed him deputy in charge of consumer affairs.
After two years with Mr. Garamendi, he went to Washington in 1993 to work on the Clinton health plan. Then he worked briefly at a Federal health policy agency, wrote two books and lectured under the auspices of the Harvard University School of Public Health. He returned to California last summer.
"I decided I wanted something more activist, more directly involved in policy," he said. He declined to discuss his new salary, which is not public information because he is not a registered lobbyist. Mr. Zelman said he learned a lot about health care economics in Washington, but as the Clinton plan went down to defeat, he, too, was rejected. "The political people saw me as a health policy person," he said. "The health policy people saw me as a politico."
Mr. Zelman, who still calls himself a "liberal policy wonk," jokes that his hair has turned "H.M.O. gray." But he says he is working for consumers at the California Association of Health Plans. "Most people might view my new job as a great leap," he said. "But a lot of people don't understand the economics of health care and the value that managed care has brought in terms of lower health care costs, and the potential that it has to improve health care quality."
INDUSTRY critics bridle at this version of his job description. Harry Snyder, director of the West Coast office of the Consumers Union, called Mr. Zelman's portrayal of his role "naive." And Beth Capell, a lobbyist in Sacramento for unions and consumer groups, labeled a legislative proposal backed by Mr. Zelman for giving H.M.O. members a chance to challenge their treatment "completely inadequate and a farce." She contended that the H.M.O.'s would have too much influence over the process.
Others in the field took a more nuanced view. Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, which supports health policy research, said Mr. Zelman was "a strong consumer person" whose appointment "signals an industry that knows it has an image problem." Mr. Altman added, "He will probably try and do a little more than the industry wants and probably not as much as the consumer groups want."
Perhaps the ultimate pat on the back came from Mr. Hayden, the once fiery left-wing radical who has settled into the political system as a liberal Democratic state senator from Los Angeles. "Wally's role will be to try to support reforms that the H.M.O.'s can live with," Mr. Hayden said. "He won't be able to stop reforms. He'll be right in the mix of it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter A. Zelman was an official on Hillary Rodham Clinton's health policy team earlier in this decade. But he now leads the California Association of Health Plans, a managed-care lobby. (Don Preisler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA ASSN OF HEALTH PLANS HEALTH PLANS INC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ASSN OF HEALTH PLANS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); SONG WRITING (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (74%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (74%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MAYORS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); LAWYERS (64%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; ZELMAN, WALTER A; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JERRY BROWN (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



583 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITY;
New Deal To Good Deal As Soccer Takes Hold

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

DATELINE: TEANECK

 BODY:
Unemployed tradesman helped build the Teaneck Armory in the late 1930's as part of Roosevelt's New Deal and Work Progress Administration during the Depression.
But they had no inkling that more than 60 years later the venerable armory on Teaneck Road -- which has played host to events as diverse as a concert by Duke Ellington's band, roller derby, the New Jersey Americans of the old American Basketball Association, professional wrestling, boxing matches, midget car racing, David Bowie rehearsals and assorted movie shoots ("Meet Joe Black" and "You've Got Mail") -- would be the winter home to the Soccer Coliseum. 
 This is no ersatz soccer field grafted onto an ice hockey rink. No sideboards. No thin green carpet rolled out over the ice. No body checking. No carom shots off the boards. The Soccer Coliseum, now in its second year of operation, is different.
The playing surface covering the drill floor is more than a mere carpet thrown down over concrete. Field Turf, developed 10 years ago in Canada, is an artificial surface with a twist -- the patented "grass" fibers are longer, stronger and softer than most artificial surfaces. Once the floor is unraveled, a mixture of silica sand and rubber pellets is spread over and worked into the surface to give it a buoyant feel that's easy on the feet and less likely to cause skin abrasions.
For weekend tournaments, the coliseum can be split in half -- 115 feet wide by 150 feet long -- or into four fields using long, movable nets suspended from the ceiling to accommodate up to four games at a time. Each game starts on the half hour and lasts 28 minutes. Each team is guaranteed a minimum of three games (six a side plus a goalie on the larger fields; five a side plus a goalie on the smaller fields) for a tournament in its age group.
"This is an environment that celebrates soccer. It's soccer heaven for the players," said Ken Heidelberg, an advertising executive in Oradell who organized and now runs the Soccer Coliseum. "We have teams coming in here from as far away as Maryland. And after having been here, they usually want to come back. For many, many years this armory had been a dinosaur."
Historically, there have been two kinds of venues for indoor soccer, Mr. Heidelburg explained. "The first was played in a gym with a fuzzy ball," he said. "It was just too fast for the players and they just banged the ball off the walls. The second kind was the indoor game played on a hockey rink that quickly became a game that looked more like hockey than soccer. Players got injured and it really wasn't soccer."
The armory, which is now headquarters to the Army's 50th Main Support Battalion, a part of the 42d Infantry (the Rainbow-MacArthur Division), went largely unused in the 1970's and 80's because it didn't meet fire-code regulations. But after being brought up to code recently and with prodding from Whitman administration, the Teaneck Armory -- and others around the state -- are now available for rental by the public for such events as trade shows.
But in Bergen County, Mr. Heidelberg said: "Over the past couple of years, there has been this pent-up demand for indoor soccer facilities as the game has grown, particularly in Bergen County. I inquired about some venues and a friend mentioned the Teaneck Armory. The logistics were daunting, but it really works."
It works because the armory's drill floor -- 200 feet long by 150 feet wide -- is nearly as big as a football field. The arching steel girders provide a ceiling nearly 60 feet high at its apex. The original folding chairs, reminiscent of the seats at the old Yankee Stadium, line the north and south sides of the drill floor and there is a balcony at the west end. Ribbons of light stream through dozens of windows that line the walls.
The Soccer Coliseum started its second season early in December with a series of weekend youth tournaments, playing host to clubs ranging from boys and girls under 8 to boys and girls under 19. During the week, beginning at 4 P.M., the World Class Soccer Camps conduct minicamps for boys and girls four days a week. The training sessions are under the direction of Kazbek Tambi, a Ridgewood native who went on to play at Columbia University and for the New York Cosmos. The camps run from December to March and include sessions for players from kingergarten through eighth grade.
After the camp's end, the Soccer Coliseum is host to an assortment of town leagues (9 to 11 P.M.) and it is rented to area club teams for practice sessions (6 to 9 P.M.) that cost $125 per hour per field. The Bergen Blackhawks club, based in Oradell, has about 20 teams that use the Soccer Coliseum for regular practices, and also participate in tournaments throughout the winter. The goal is to provide the club's players with an opportunity to train and hone their skills during the winter months.
"We had been using the Oradell public schools' gyms and even practicing in parking lots, weather permitting, before the Soccer Coliseum," said Warren Heede, who until this year had coached Blackhawks teams. "We would basically play anywhere we could in the winter."
"But we wanted our players to play year-round. It's a necessity because if you take four months off in the winter you tend to get a bit rusty," Mr. Heede said. "When we first walked into the place we were in absolute awe. The playing surface was just incredible. It's state of the art. A fantastic facility."
"Before the coliseum, we had indoor tournaments in gyms, playing off the walls," Heede said. "But as the kids got older it was just getting to dangerous and too rough. It was almost like playing hockey without the equipment. Now with the touchlines and endlines at the coliseum, our players are playing more skillful soccer."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Teaneck Armory, 14-year-old girls have run of the field as Fairlawn takes on Monmouth. The playing surface has a buoyant feel that is easy on the feet. "It's soccer heaven for the players," said Ken Heidelberg, who runs the Soccer Coliseum." (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); Crowds cheer on players at the armory, where teams come from as far as Maryland. "After having been here," Mr. Heidelberg said, "they usually want to come back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCCER (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (88%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); ARMIES (73%); BASKETBALL (71%); WRESTLING (71%); SPORTS INJURIES (71%); BOXING (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



584 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
In Politics and the Markets, Lessons From Chaos

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
LOOKING back at 1998 should instill a little humility in Washington journalists and global investors. They are two breeds with little in common, other than a fondness for confidently predicting how events will unfold -- and then explaining confidently how life interfered with an otherwise perfect scenario.
When President Clinton's indiscretions were revealed, many a talking head predicted that he would be gone in months. When the Paula Jones civil suit was dismissed, journalists said impeachment was inconceivable. Autumn airwaves were full of forecasts that the Democrats would lose 10 to 20 seats in Congress. They gained five, and impeachment was dead again. Until it wasn't. 
 The masters of the world economy didn't do much better in 1998. The International Monetary Fund thought its program to save Indonesia would be carried out because President Suharto understood his own interests and had an iron grip on his country. Wrong twice. Then the I.M.F.'s managing director, Michel Camdessus, told the world to pay no attention to investors fleeing Russia: "Contrary to what markets and commentators are imagining, this is not a crisis. This is not a major development."
But those miscalculations pale beside the ones investors made. America, they figured, had too much invested in Boris N. Yeltsin to permit default and economic chaos in Russia. When those ensued, world markets fell into an abyss that looked bottomless by October. Then the experts said the Asian contagion had finally arrived in America and killed the boom; three interest-rate cuts later, the Dow is back around 9,000.
Historians will no doubt spend decades dissecting the lessons of roller-coaster 1998. Here are a few to get them started.
The markets prefer paralysis in Washington -- until someone needs a bailout.
One explanation for Wall Street's so-what view of impeachment comes from the libertarian song book: A distracted Congress won't have time to raise the minimum wage or otherwise monkey with the economy. "It's the kind of thing you hear when markets are good," said Allen Sinai, chief global strategist for Primark Decision Economics, a consulting firm in Boston. "People on the Street convince themselves that the Government can only mess things up. When things go bad, then it's a different tune."
The tune certainly was different when Long-Term Capital Management was on the verge of collapse and the Federal Reserve instigated a private-sector bailout. White House and Treasury phones were abuzz with the suggestions by everyone from George Soros to the partners at Goldman, Sachs about what the President should say and when he should say it.
"I think the turning point was the President's speech at the Council on Foreign Relations," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said in an interview last week, referring to Mr. Clinton's call in September -- scripted by Mr. Rubin and the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan -- for policies to promote growth rather than contain inflation. Interest rates fell around the world as a result.
The lesson is that at crucial moments, government policy does matter -- and government paralysis matters even more. Just ask the Japanese.
It's bad news when big economies stumble, but it can be worse when little ones do.
Even Mr. Rubin, a staunch defender of the country's response to the Asian crisis, concedes that his staff saw little chance of Thailand's 1997 meltdown leading to global economic trouble. It was a reasonable guess, since larger economies had tanked, as Mexico's did in 1995, without causing tsunamis.
But it was wrong, and it won't be the last bad guess. The world tracks (and professes to understand) every ripple in the American and Japanese economies but has little insight into developing countries. Thailand, Indonesia and Russia are all examples of what happens when, as one Clinton Administration official puts it, "you put countries with 19th-century financial institutions into a 21st-century world economy."
So the surprises may not be over. A month after Brazil received a $41.5 billion bailout, investors are not exactly rushing back in. The I.M.F. predicted last week that Russia's economy would shrink by 8.5 percent next year, topping anyone's list of social explosions waiting to happen. And if China, which has bravely held off the worst effects of the Asian crisis, starts to falter, all bets are off.
Crony capitalism sank the Asians, but in Greenwich, it has its advantages.
Washington and the I.M.F. miss no opportunity to tell Asians why they shouldn't bail out failing institutions to spare the well-connected. So who could blame Japan for gloating when Long-Term Capital Management was rescued? "This looks a lot like our program," observed Kiichi Miyazawa, Japan's Finance Minister, with a twinkle in his eye.
The markets have discounted the possibility of a long impeachment trial in the Senate, because everyone knows what's coming: a censure deal.
Yeah. It's a sure bet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-EIGHT; STOCKS AND BONDS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); BAILOUTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); LITIGATION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



585 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Lo! Here Come the Technology Patents. Lo! Here Come the Lawsuits

BYLINE: By RICHARD KORMAN 

 BODY:
ONE morning in October, Steven M. Golden set upon his competitors like a brawling barnyard dog.
Mr. Golden is chief executive of Coolsavings, one of seven companies vying to dominate a burgeoning field that barely existed two years ago -- the electronic distribution of coupon-style discounts to consumers. On Oct. 19, Coolsavings, which is based in Chicago, announced the first of six lawsuits against all its rivals, accusing them of infringing a patent it was granted in June. 
 "We're taking a position of strength and following the advice of attorneys about how we protect our position as an industry leader," Mr. Golden said in an interview.
Coolsavings' patent-and-sue strategy is aggressive but far from unique. Companies in fiercely competitive technology industries from communications and software to drugs and biotechnology are giving the 12-gauge lawsuit a prominent place in the corporate gun cabinet. The volume of civil lawsuits in Federal courts is rising again after a slump in the late 1980's and early 1990's. And a recent Federal Court of Appeals decision that broadens the already wide definition of a patentable process has opened the door for more contentious patents, and thus more litigation.
Patent lawyers say strategic suing makes sense in lucrative new drug and technology markets. "It can definitely be a good idea if it slows competitors and gets you a one- to two-year head start," said James G. Gilliland, an intellectual-property lawyer in San Francisco who has many technology clients. "That can make all the difference in the world because, my goodness, there is a lot of money to be made" when a new idea first reaches the marketplace, he said.
The combination of more patents and more companies built around patented technology has driven up the number of lawsuits, said Eugene R. Quinn Jr., a lawyer and consultant who teaches at the Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H. In a review of Federal court records, Mr. Quinn found that the number of new patent-related lawsuits grew to more than 2,100 in 1997, from 1,500 in 1992.
Strategic suing is not for the thin of wallet. The richer the prize, the bloodier the warfare and the greater the likelihood that the case will be tried rather than settled. The median cost to each party in a patent trial is $1.2 million, according to the American Intellectual Property Association; complex trials can run to $6 million or more.
Zealous patent litigators are tutoring entrepreneurs in the art of legal combat. Although most lawsuits are settled before trial, suing or threatening to sue is viewed as a mandatory sign of resolve. "Regrettably, the only way to look credible in this game is to play hardball," Mr. Quinn said. "The name of the game is to take no prisoners."
Patent disputes are still sometimes resolved without lawsuits being filed, Mr. Gilliland said, but "far less so than in the past."
AT Coolsavings, the patented process involves the ability to aim discount certificates at the most promising customers, a system the company introduced ahead of competitors in March 1997, Mr. Golden said. The goal of the lawsuits is to fend off the irksome prospect of imitators' copying its methods while undercutting its prices. "It isn't right," he said. "We had a lot of development costs, a lot of hurdles to figure out our business formula."
But Coolsavings is not on a crusade. If his competitors will come to the negotiating table, Mr. Golden said, he would consider "any solution that makes economic sense."
The targets of Coolsavings say the suits are groundless. "Nuisance patent suits are part of the background noise" in technology-based businesses, said Bill Purcell, chief executive of Planet U, one of the defendants. "What happens is, when people get a patent, they often get patent testosterone and think their patent covers a lot of area it doesn't."
He said his company prefers to "win in the marketplace, not the courtroom."
Patent duels can pay off big in the drug industry, where huge brand-name drug makers like Glaxo Wellcome and Eli Lilly are accustomed to throwing their legal weight around. A much smaller, generic drug maker, Barr Laboratories, has profited richly by identifying shaky patents on brand-name drugs and then either suing the patent holder or provoking a suit, hoping to open the way for Barr to market a generic version.
A trial is set to begin in Federal court in Indianapolis next month in Lilly's suit against Barr over the validity of Lilly's Prozac patent. Barr's chief executive, Bruce L. Downey, said Barr would realize $100 million in extra revenue if it wins.
Mr. Downey is a lawyer, and he and Barr's senior vice president for strategic business development, Paul M. Bisaro, once worked together at a law firm. Going to court thus comes naturally for the company, and the hunt for breakable patents is a permanent part of its business model. "A component of our business is to set about looking for them," Mr. Downey said. "We make no apologies for that."
Barr expects to spend $6 million to $8 million each time it goes to trial, so Mr. Downey said he wanted to be sure the chances of winning were at least 50 percent before joining battle.
To date, Barr is two for three in big patent cases. It sued and won a settlement from Zeneca Group in 1987 over tamoxifen, a breast cancer drug; under the settlement, Barr became a distributor of the drug. Barr provoked a suit from Glaxo Wellcome in 1991 by filing for Government approval to sell a generic version of AZT, which is used to combat AIDS; Glaxo won, and Barr must wait until the patent expires in 2005. Barr did better when a similar filing in 1995 over the antibiotic ziprofloxacin drew a suit from Bayer A.G.; Bayer agreed last year to pay Barr up to $30 million a year until the patent expires in 2003; Barr may also become a distributor of the antibiotic for the final six months of the patent's term. The proceeds of its patent battles help pay for Barr research aimed at creating patentable new drugs of its own.
SMALLER companies sometimes contend that bigger competitors who win broad patents leave them no choice but to sue.
Nestor Inc., which makes software to detect credit card fraud, is suing a younger and much larger company, HNC Software, in Federal District Court in Providence, R.I., contending predatory and monopolistic practices in connection with a broad patent recently won by HNC. With 23 of the 25 top issuers of bank credit cards buying HNC's system, Nestor felt so shut out that it had little option but to seek relief in court, said the company's chief executive, David Fox.
Patricia Campbell, HNC's marketing director, denied that HNC had a monopoly and said the patent office had already settled the question of whether HNC's anti-fraud neural network system was patentable.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "More Suits" shows the number of patent related lawsuits in Federal courts, from 1980 through 1997. (Source: Eugene R. Quinn Jr.,Franklin Pierce Law Center)
 
Drawing (Milan Trenc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRL (AMEX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: Q INTERACTIVE INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; GENETIC ENGINEERING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); SUITS AND LITIGATION PATENTS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (67%); APPEALS (52%); 

PERSON: KORMAN, RICHARD JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



586 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK NIMBY;
Whatever It Is, It Won't Go Up Without a Fight

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
With the New York renaissance in full swing, 1998 was a good year to think expansively. Developers, shop owners and restaurateurs all hatched plans for the next big thing, or new ways to promote the big thing they already had. But the cleaner and calmer that New York became, the more people seemed to complain about rubbish, rowdiness and the other byproducts of a buzzing economy.
Big signs inspired some of these backyard brawls. When a 50-foot vinyl advertisement for Pacific Sunwear clothing was rolled down the side of a building in the Greenwich Village historic district, for example, residents objected, and the sign was rolled back up. 
 But the city's Buildings Department said many of these large signs -- a billboard across from the Flatiron Building, for instance -- were permissible, no matter how they clashed with the local esthetic. That is a legal reality some City Council members hope to alter with a bill, now pending, to ban billboards in SoHo, NoHo and TriBeCa.
Restaurants also got flak from their neighbors last year. When the trendy restaurant Cafeteria sought a permit for a sidewalk cafe, neighbors blocked it to punish the place for a supposedly smelly trash bin. Mark Cornell, Cafeteria's manager, said the bin was fine now, although the restaurant still has not received a permit. And in West New Brighton, Staten Island, fears that a Burger King would open pitted mothers waving "No" signs against sons with "Go" signs. Consumer Food Service, the property owner, has now decided to build office or retail space there, not a fast-food operation, said Walter Rumsey, a co-owner.
Plans for new bars raised worries in Long Island City, Stapleton, SoHo and the Lower East Side. Through Community Board 3, residents of Ludlow Street even imposed a moratorium on new liquor licenses. But such a policy can be tricky. The moratorium created a retail vacuum that was filled by trendy clothing stores, which, in turn, raised residents' fears about gentrification.
Elsewhere, it was plans for megastores -- Costco, Staples, Pep Boys -- that caused local vexation. In fact, anything big seemed troublesome. Brooklyn Heights residents complained that a plan for a 33-story apartment building didn't fit into their neighborhood architecturally. SoHo residents griped that a plan for non-artists' apartments didn't fit in professionally. And East Siders moaned that a 72-story Trump building, near the United Nations, didn't fit in vertically.
Demolition has begun or is scheduled for all three sites, although residents are challenging the permits for the East Side and SoHo buildings.
The hand of the man who takes credit for the city's comeback was felt in the two largest backyard brawls of 1998. Mayor Giuliani beat back the sex shops, not only from Times Square but from neighborhoods like Woodside, Queens. But if he played the hero in that fight, he often was the bogeyman in the battle over locating the waste transfer stations that will be needed in light of the scheduled closing of the Fresh Kills landfill in 2002.
In 1998, the city even had a literal "not in my backyard" dispute. In Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, Baruch Mappa, a developer, tried to clear land that he owned in order to construct a new apartment and office building. But residents who had used his land as extensions of their backyards for a decade filed suit and won an injunction. George Katz, Mr. Mappa's grandson, said the family will fight to build -- unless the residents want to purchase the property. JULIAN E. BARNES

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vinyl sign was rolled down, then up. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); NEW YORK (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RESTAURANTS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); CITIES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (77%); TRENDS (75%); MAYORS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (75%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: BARNES, JULIAN E RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



587 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Why Wall Street Is Losing Out To 40 Acres and a Modem

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PARK CITY, Utah

 BODY:
WHILE his investment-banking peers brave crowded airports and pack into jets bound for long-awaited ski vacations, Saeed Abtahi isn't planning to do anything but walk out his front door. He doesn't have to: He lives here in the Wasatch Mountains -- at an elevation of almost 8,000 feet -- with ski slopes all around him.
When, after 10 years at Bankers Trust in New York and London, Mr. Abtahi decided to strike out on his own in 1996, he couldn't think of a good reason for living or working in a big city, or even a suburb. Since then, his 11-person investment firm, Hunter Capital Group, has arranged $1.3 billion in private financings out of a low-rise office building in this ski resort of 12,000 people, a former mining town an hour's drive from Salt Lake City. 
 With modern computer and communications technology, investment bankers like Mr. Abtahi are finding that they can do business successfully from almost anywhere.
"We're a modem country now," Mr. Abtahi said. "This allows for a movement -- maybe 10 to 15 percent of the high-end people -- to operate anywhere they want, including places like Park City."
The trend could have ominous implications for major financial centers. As manufacturers and financial back-office operations have deserted central cities, scholars like Saskia Sassen of Columbia University and many urban planners have maintained that urban core regions can still thrive by dominating so-called producer services like investment banking, money management and financial consulting.
But the digitization of financial services -- Mr. Abtahi's "modem nation" -- threatens even that dynamic. Already, more than two-thirds of the leading on-line brokerage firms are based away from New York City, in places like New Jersey, California or Florida. Over time, according to David Krell, chief executive of the International Securities Exchange, the very idea of the trading floor and centralized financial markets will become as obsolete as vacuum tubes.
"We can provide the information, the order flow of a traditional market, but with the efficiency of an electronic marketplace," said Mr. Krell, whose firm, based in New York, is developing a screen-based options trading system that it hopes to put in service in January 2000. "Our market-makers don't have to be in New York, San Francisco, Chicago or Philadelphia -- they can be in Sun Valley."
WITH anywhere to choose from, many of the new breed of rural financiers are attracted to Jackson Hole, Wyo. The sprawling town, with a year-round population of just 6,400, is home to at least two important financial market players: the Brandywine mutual funds and the Data Broadcasting Corporation, which supplies financial and market information to investors.
The Brandywine funds, with more than $5 billion in assets, are run by Freiss Associates and the fund manager Foster S. Freiss from a two-story log cabin-style office building.
Data Broadcasting, with 760 employees scattered around New York, California and Utah, is managed from the outskirts of Jackson Hole by two other Wall Street players, Allan R. Tessler and Alan J. Hirschfield, who was once a top executive with the Wall Street firm of Allen & Company and is a former president of 20th Century Fox.
"What's driving growth in places like this is not only technology, but the fact that people can now get both quality of life and do their business," Mr. Hirschfield said. "It's creating a new exodus from urban areas, particularly among younger married professionals."
Indeed, places like Jackson Hole; Santa Fe, N.M.; the Colorado Rockies, and the New England coast are prime magnets for affluent baby boomers, according to William H. Frey, a demographer at the Population Studies Center of the University of Michigan. They are migrating in large-enough numbers to make places like Aspen and Snowmass among the most expensive in the nation, with median home prices often higher than in Beverly Hills.
Many of these refugees are like Richard Jaycobs, who postponed having children until his late 30's and now is based on Nantucket.
"There's a big generational thing playing out now," said Mr. Jaycobs, formerly a fund manager with the Computer Trading Corporation, who grew up in Brooklyn but moved to Nantucket three years ago, at the age of 36. "I see people my age -- this is really about raising children -- and they don't want to stay in the city or do the long commutes," he said. "They have the contacts enough that they can make the life style choices."
His new financial risk-management consulting firm, Acknowledge Systems, is based in Nantucket, though it still has a presence in New York. After all, some of the young finance experts and programmers it employs are not quite ready to settle down in a sleepy New England village. But as these people age and contemplate having families, Mr. Jaycobs believes, they will become more amenable to moving to the island.
URBAN cores, of course, still possess important advantages, notably elite business schools, unique agglomerations of specialized service providers and an exciting cultural environment that remains attractive to many young, skilled people. But their hold on the nation's financial elite is no longer unchallenged and may well fade.
Mr. Abtahi, for one, is counting on it. He wants to entice three or four more Wall Street investment bankers up to the mountains.
"Everyone complains about worrying about getting laid off, so it's easy to recruit," he said. "People who come here, they all have this incredible reaction: This is a great way to live."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Life in a big financial center holds few charms for Saeed Abtahi, who uses electronic communications to run his investment banking firm from a far different environment: the ski town of Park City, Utah. (Tim Kelly for The New York Times); To explain why the Data Broadcasting Corporation is based in the mountains near Jackson Hole, Wyo., rather than in the canyons of Wall Street, Alan J. Hirschfield emphasizes one factor: quality of life. (Jim Evans for The New York Times); Richard Jaycobs wanted to live in a good place for raising children, but he did not want to face commuting a long distance to work. So he based his new financial risk-management consulting company, Acknowledge Systems, on Nantucket. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDC (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERACTIVE DATA CORP (60%); INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE HOLDINGS INC (52%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; RURAL AREAS; LIFE STYLES TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); SKIING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); BONDS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); TRENDS (73%); RESORTS (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



588 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
1999: Another High-Risk Year

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
CHRISTMAS has come and gone, and only a handful of days remain in what has been for many a truly unusual -- and often painful -- year.
Hal W. Reynolds, chief investment officer of Wilshire Asset Management, which runs about $10 billion from its headquarters in Santa Monica, Calif., reflected last week about what sort of a year it was, and offered some thoughts about 1999. 

Q. Developments in financial markets in the United States and around the world have generated a lot of surprises this year. But has 1998 really been that atypical?
 
A. I don't know if I would call it unusual. We tend to get equity corrections every three to four years. The situation in emerging markets, which began in the fall of 1997, is not an unusual event, because we have seen boom-and-bust cycles there before.
 
Q. Large-capitalization stocks have outperformed small caps for five years in a row now. And the performance of the average equity fund has badly lagged behind the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which is up well over 20 percent this year. What does that say?
 
A. It does not say investors would do better buying individual stocks than mutual funds.
The return-to-risk ratio of individual stocks is far inferior to a well-diversified portfolio. And the Standard & Poor's index is not the market. Moreover, about half the stocks that are in it have returned less than a money market fund this year.
 
Q. Long-Term Capital, the hedge fund that almost failed this fall, provided a jolt to the financial system. What should we take away from that experience?
 
A. The lessons to be learned from Long-Term Capital are much more relevant to institutional investors than individuals.
Institutions went into hedge funds because they were very concerned about high valuations in the equity market and wanted diversification. But a highly leveraged hedge fund carries similar or higher levels of risk than staying in equities.
The near-collapse of Long Term Capital stands as a reminder to require transparency, and to have a good risk-monitoring system in place. Buying into the best and the brightest, which is how Long-Term was seen, isn't good enough.
 
Q. Markets have been quite volatile this year. Should we expect more of the same?
 
A. The first eight years of this decade were a period when equity risk was the lowest it has been in the post-World War II era, with volatility running at about 12 percent. In 1998, it was closer to 20 percent. We think it will be close to that next year.
 
Q. Why is that?
 
A. The characteristics of the stock market are different than they used to be. We are getting more return in the form of capital appreciation and less in the form of dividends. That makes stocks a riskier asset. The dividend yield in 1990 was as high as 4 percent. Today it is 1.4 percent. That is a pretty dramatic change.
 
Q. Why will stocks be a risky investment in 1999?
 
A. There is a real chance we won't get strong earnings growth next year. If that happens, we will probably get lower earnings multiples on stocks.
So we think it is a good time for investors to look at sectors of the market where the risk is less and returns are higher.
One area we like is real estate investment trusts, which have had a bad year. But the fundamentals are strong, and many REIT stocks are trading with dividend yields of 6 percent to 6.5 percent. So you get a nice current return and an opportunity for capital appreciation.
 
Q. Emerging markets are a risky asset class that many investors seem to have deserted permanently. Is that a wise move?
 
A. No, I don't think it is.
Higher-risk investments like emerging markets require higher returns but over longer time periods, not necessarily 5 to 10 years.
In these markets, strong economies may not generate higher stock prices unless there is higher earnings growth. That requires better corporate governance and a greater alignment of interest between shareholders and managers of the business.
Those qualities are getting better in emerging markets. They continue to be very risky, but stock valuations are much better than three years ago. So the picture is improving.
 
Q. You like bonds as an asset class. Isn't it hard to get investors excited about something that yields only 5 or 6 percent?
 
A. The public isn't that interested in bonds. But we need to look at these yields relative to inflation, which over the last 12 months is running at under 2 percent. With the global economy slowing down, it is unlikely that inflation is going to pick up. As a result, real interest rates are going to remain very attractive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reynolds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WILSHIRE ASSET MANAGEMENT WILSHIRE ASSET MANAGEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILSHIRE ASSET MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-EIGHT; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-NINE MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (87%); CHRISTMAS (79%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BONDS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; REYNOLDS, HAL W

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



589 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Scott M. Black;
Kobren Delphi Value Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
FOR years, Scott M. Black, president of Delphi Management, a Boston money management firm with $915 million in assets, has preached the merits of deep value investing. With his thick Down East accent, Mr. Black, a native of Portland, Me., was always ready to pull out a passel of research showing how small-capitalization value stocks outperform other equities.
Encountering a sizzling record like Mr. Black's, people listened. Since he started Delphi in January 1980, Mr. Black has returned 17.6 percent, annualized, to investors, net of fees, through June 30. That compares to just 14.4 percent for the Russell 2000 index of small-cap stocks, according to Ibbotson Associates, a research firm in Chicago. 
 Mr. Black's minimum investment, $5 million, deterred many. But now, for the first time, retail investors are able to invest with Mr. Black, through the Kobren Delphi Value fund, a new no-load fund with a $2,500 minimum that is being marketed by Kobren Insight Group, a money manager in Wellesley Hills, Mass.
Why the 19-year wait to start a mutual fund? "When we looked at the economics, we didn't want to compete with the likes of Fidelity," he said, adding that pressure from investors finally got the better of him. "We keep getting calls from people who want to invest with us, and I had to turn them away. Here's a way for us to capture that money."
Need anyone fret that his style will be diluted in the mutual fund format? No, he said. "I don't get tempted to stray," Mr. Black said. "What we do isn't glamorous, but it works consistently over time."
Mr. Black, 52, is also known in the art world for buying Impressionist art at what many consider bargain prices. He bought "Deux Femmes Fait le Lit," a Toulouse-Lautrec oil of two prostitutes making a bed, at Christie's in November. A deal? "Oh, yes," he said. "It was well under $1 million. If you like the subject, it's a fantastic Toulouse-Lautrec. It's been exhibited everywhere."
He brings a similar eye for quality to his deep value investing style.
In looking at companies, Mr. Black watches for growing earnings and revenues, for example, along with returns on equity of 15 percent or more. Often, that means passing up restructuring plays. "We don't like cost reductions, which only work short-term," he said, adding that he likes to keep turnover in his portfolio to below 50 percent a year.
He also favors cash-generating companies with solid balance sheets. Cash exceeds debt in 40 percent of the companies he owns.
For banks and insurers and what he calls other "mundane businesses," he pays no more than half the normal market multiple of price to earnings, and he sells a stock as the ratio reaches those of its peers.
For asset-rich companies, like oil concerns, he buys at a discount to, say, proven reserves. For media companies, he uses his estimate of their takeover value. In both cases, he sells as the discount disappears.
With an overall P/E ratio of just 14, based on anticipated 1999 earnings, the stocks in Delphi Management's accounts have some of the lowest valuations in the small-cap universe. "We're absolute value players, not relative value," he said.
Yet, unlike many value managers, he does not shrug off technology companies. "At times we'll own tech, but they have to be down and out, selling at close to book value with a prospect of rebound for their earnings," he said.
Often, that means drawing a bead on a beaten-down target and waiting for an improvement in the earnings outlook. Mr. Black is now watching Silicon Valley Group, a semiconductor equipment maker, which closed at $10.75 a share on Thursday, down from its 52-week high of $27.875 because of the cyclical nature of the business as well as slack demand in Asia. Its book value is $17, but he is not yet ready to buy. "There's more bloodletting to come, because the earnings power hasn't come back on," he said.
MR. BLACK has been adding to his holdings in Grey Advertising, which he started buying in 1982 at less than $5 a share. Grey now sells for $348.50 a share, less than 13 times Mr. Black's 1999 earnings estimate of $27 to $28 a share. That compares with P/E multiples of more than 29 for two rivals, Interpublic and Omnicom. Grey has yet to recover from the August selloff, is illiquid and not closely tracked on Wall Street.
He likes the pricing flexibility of advertising companies. "It's what Warren Buffett used to refer to as a 'royalty rent franchise,' " he said. "There's not another business in the U.S. that can mark up its prices 5 percent every Jan. 1." Mr. Black thinks Grey's return on equity will be 18 percent going forward.
At the end of 1997, Mr. Black began buying shares of Claire's Stores, a retailer of costume jewelry, at $14 a share; it now trades at $18.875. "It's a legitimate 15 percent grower with more than $120 million of cash on its balance sheet and no debt," he said. The company has annual sales of $300 a square foot in its stores, a figure he calls "amazing" compared with the norm of $150 to $225 at rival stores. For 1999, he expects the retailer to have a return on equity of 25 percent and earnings of $1.60 to $1.65 a share, giving Claire Stores a P/E of under 12.
He is also finding wealth in oil-related stocks. "I'm bottom-fishing the energy stocks because they've been blown out -- energy prices are so low," Mr. Black said.
One favorite is Cabot Oil and Gas of Houston, a natural-gas producer whose output is growing 10 to 12 percent annually. "I like to buy growth, not just assets in the ground," Mr. Black said.
He started buying shares last October at $13 to $14. The stock closed at $15 on Thursday, just five times the low-end of his expectations of per-share cash flow next year. Mr. Black puts the company's breakup value at $22 a share, so it sells for a 32 percent discount; many rivals command premiums.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As reflected in his taste for art, the Boston money manager Scott M. Black brings an eye for quality to his style of deep value investing. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Kobren Delphi Value Fund"
Net assets: $4.1 million
Inception: Dec. 17, 1998
Manager: Scott M. Black (since inception)
Minimum purchase: $2,500 ($2,000 I.R.A.)
Turnover: Less than 50%*
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.25%
Expense ratio: 1.48%
 
(Source: Company reports)
 
*Estimate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GREY (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DELPHI MANAGEMENT; KOBREN INSIGHT GROUP IBBOTSON ASSOCIATES INC (56%); INSIGHT GROUP LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELPHI MANAGEMENT; KOBREN INSIGHT GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MAINE, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BONDS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INSURANCE (71%); AUCTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; BLACK, SCOTT M SCOTT M BLACK (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



590 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
What the S.& P. Knew That the Dow Didn't

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
THE Standard & Poor's 500-stock index hit a new high last week. The Dow Jones industrial average of 30 stocks did not. For the year, the S.& P. is up 26 percent, while the Dow is up 17 percent. Measured over the last two years, the divergence is even wider, with the S.& P. up 66 percent and the Dow up 43 percent.
These are unusually wide gaps between the two most popular and closely watched indexes, which usually move at about the same pace, up or down. The divergence leaves investors wondering how strong the market has really been this year. 
 The S.& P.'s bettering of the Dow is likely to fuel its own growth in the new year, said Greg A. Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, as investors throw money at index funds based on the S.& P.
Much of the divergence is explained by what is occurring in the American economy. While computer shares have soared recently, manufacturing stocks, especially those of many exporters, have been crushed by economic turmoil in the rest of the world. The energy industry, meanwhile, has been hit hard by lower oil prices.
And the venerable Dow is more heavily loaded with the companies that are being hurt and short on those that are doing well.
In the last four weeks, announcements of expected disappointments in earnings have been concentrated in the Dow. Nine of the Dow 30 -- Merck, Boeing, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Union Carbide, Coca-Cola, J. P. Morgan, Caterpillar, Sears and Procter & Gamble -- said their fourth-quarter profits would be below expectations.
But other factors are at work, too. One is the fact that the two indexes are calculated differently. Since the Dow is based on price, Dow stocks with higher prices have a bigger impact on the change in the total index. The S.& P. is based on the change in a company's market capitalization -- the product of the change in price and the amount of stock outstanding. The bigger a company's market cap, the bigger its impact.
In the last year and a half, investors have been favoring a very small group of big, well-known stocks. More of them are in the S.& P. than in the Dow. Twelve stocks, according to Merrill Lynch, accounted for half of this year's move, through Wednesday, in the S.& P. But only four of them -- Wal-Mart Stores, I.B.M., Merck, and General Electric -- are in the Dow. Those not in the Dow, but in the S.& P., are Microsoft, Intel, Lucent Technologies, Cisco Systems, Dell Computer, MCI Worldcom, Pfizer and Home Depot. At the end of November, 50 stocks accounted for half the total market capitalization of the S.& P. 500, its greatest bias toward bigness in 16 years.
David Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S.& P., noted that if the S.& P. 500 index were calculated on a basis that weighed each stock price equally -- which would bring it closer to the way the Dow is calculated -- it would be up only 10.8 percent through November. That is because almost half of the stocks in the S.& P. are down for the year. But in an index that favors big market caps, the stocks that have dropped have much less impact because the better performers are so much bigger.
In addition, it is not the best price gainers that account for most of the jump in the S.& P. 500. Instead, it is the companies whose market capitalizations have increased the most.
The 10 S.& P. stocks with the biggest price moves through Wednesday were Dell, Apple Computer, EMC, Lucent Technologies, Ascend Communications, Cisco Systems, Staples, Unisys, MCI Worldcom and Providian Financial. Only three of these are among the top 10 movers of the S.& P. General Electric was one of the top movers of the S.& P., but its price is up just 38 percent, well below Dell's increase of 259 percent. Microsoft, having a big year, is up 122 percent. Providian Financial, the 10th-best performer, is up 133 percent.
For investors, the question remains: Which index reflects best what is going on?
John A. Prestbo, editor of the Dow Jones indexes, said: "Despite the vast difference in the stocks and the difference in the calculation, over time the Dow and the S.& P. correlate 95 percent of the time. They are both telling the same story about the market."
Mr. Blitzer of S.& P. argues that his index is a better reflection of the entire economy because it is bigger than the Dow and because it is changed more regularly with the addition and subtraction of stocks. America Online will be added this week.
But he acknowledges that because the Dow is easier to understand, most individual investors will continue to watch it, despite its performance.
"The Dow," he said, "is an index that the average guy would relate to more."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Between the Benchmarks" shows the performance gap between the S.& P. 500 and the Dow industrials, since Dec. 31, 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (80%); VZ (NYSE) (80%); ALU (PAR) (60%); ALU (NYSE) (60%); ALU (BIT) (60%); KO (NYSE) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); MMM (SWX) (54%); MMM (NYSE) (54%); MMM (FRA) (54%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (80%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); BOEING CO (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); 3M CO (54%); PFIZER INC (50%); INTEL CORP (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (99%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); INDEX FUNDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



591 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Spring Turns To Winter In Beijing

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
THREE months ago, Wang Youcai was feeling optimistic about the prospects of the China Democratic Party, a fledgling group he had helped to found and hoped to register as China's first opposition party. "I think the likelihood I'll be re-arrested is very small," he said in an interview.
But last week, after swift trials, Mr. Wang, 32, and two other organizers, Xu Wenli and Qin Yong, were sentenced to more than a decade each in prison for "subverting state power." And in a speech, President Jiang Zemin proclaimed that challenges to Communist rule would be "annihilated in the early stages." 
 The surprising thing is that all this came at the end of a year when China's rigid political system had seemed to be relaxing its grip. So the verdicts sent ebullient hopes that China was poised for change crashing to the ground -- and not just for the dissidents but for the many Western leaders who have flocked to Beijing in the past year, applauding China for progress on human rights and legal reform.
How had their optimism been so far off base? Where their calculations overly simplistic, or terribly wrong?
In fact, many signs in 1998 suggested that China's leaders were ready for a dose of political reform: President Jiang Zemin discussed Tibet and the Tiananmen massacre with President Clinton during an hour of live television. China said it would sign the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Chinese officials played host to Mary Robinson, the United Nations High Commissioner on Human Rights.
But in their optimism, many people overestimated the significance of such events, overlooking the obvious: That China remains a one-party state, with the rule of the Communist Party written into its Constitution.
"These were all important steps, but I think they were misinterpreted by dissidents and by many in the outside world," said Andrew Nathan, a professor of political science at Columbia University in New York. "They decided that initiations for change could come from outside rather than inside the Communist Party. But that was never true."
Still, the Clinton visit in June seemed remarkably open, and dissidents like Mr. Wang thought that the time was ripe to propose an alternative party. A few months later, initial attempts to register the party in two provinces were not immediately squashed. So the members felt further emboldened.
In fact the China Democratic Party never even came close to registering -- no closer than hearing from a few local officials that if its members could show things like an official meeting place and a list of members, they were free to turn in an application.
But for activists who had previously landed in jail for their democratic leanings, it seemed like progress, even though no one knew for sure just why China's leaders had turned cordial. Was it all a show for the West, and particularly for Ms. Robinson, whose visit was just weeks away? Or was there genuine debate about political reform among the top leadership? The optimists chose to act on the chance that the opening was real.
"Especially around August and September there seemed to be a thaw," said Chen Zhonghe, a Democratic Party member in Wuhan. "And some had the belief that Jiang Zemin might offer a different approach. That turned out to be an illusion."
Foreign governments and visiting dignitaries tuned in to the liberalizing signals as well, and they too found their hopes raised. Journalists proclaimed a Beijing spring. Lawyers from England, Germany and the United States came to assist China's much publicized quest for "rule of law."
But many of these Westerners have little experience in China. And they have not spent much time with the older generation of men who run China. Following their own democratic interests, they have focused instead on the younger, more progressive, often Western-trained officials and academics.
PRESIDENT CLINTON met with homeowners. Hillary Rodham Clinton visited a groundbreaking women's legal aid center. It was easy to leave with optimistic impressions. Now the trials are reminders that, although China is undoubtedly moving toward a bit more openness, the direction is not necessarily toward Western democracy.
Western lawyrers who recently took part in freewheeling law forums here said they were shocked that the dissidents were not even accorded lawyers or open trials, as are guaranteed by Chinese law. "We hear a lot about China moving towards 'rule of law,' which we tend to conflate with democracy or a multi-party system," said Sharon Hom, a law professor and expert on China at the City University of New York. "We assume they go hand in hand, but that's not true in China. Rule of law in China is to promote economic development and modernization. When push comes to shove, it does not include political development."
Many China scholars say they hope, at best, for incremental change. "I think there's enough ferment that will cause boundaries on political discourse to be slowly expanded outward," said Stanley Lubman, a consulting professor at Stanford University Law School. "The Chinese leadership, however, has never indicated how much loss of control it will tolerate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Hong Kong, a protest of Xu Wenli's arrest. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); TIBET (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); TIBET (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



592 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Speaking Frankly;
Parlez-Vous Francais? But Why Bother?

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
HIGH school teachers are abuzz with reports that Latin, long given up for dead, is actually showing a pulse. But the more remarkable news in language circles may really be that millions of American teen-agers continue to study French, despite -- and let's be gentle about this -- the fading significance of France and the French language.
Consider that according to the most recent surveys, nearly 1 out of every 4 American students who learn a foreign language in middle school and high school still chooses French, a language spoken fluently by only about 1 out of every 50 people on the planet. By contrast, 1 percent of American teen-agers study Chinese or Japanese, which combined are spoken by 20 percent of the world's people. 
 This comes as French has effectively ceded to English its longtime standing as the first language of diplomacy, among other crowns. So is French being taught out of proportion to its role in the family of nations and the global economy?
Richard Brecht thinks so. He is the director of a group called the National Council of Organizations of Less Commonly Taught Languages, which represents anyone teaching languages other than English, French, Spanish and German. He comes down particularly hard on French (studied by 22 percent of teen-agers) and German (6 percent), saying he can think of no good reason to push them on so many American students at the expense of Russian or Japanese.
"The only answer that makes sense, besides the fact that those are the languages available, is that they are just so deeply embedded in our cultural traditions," said Mr. Brecht. "It becomes a cultural argument, not a logical argument, and that's not an argument."
Mr. Brecht, a professor of Russian at the University of Maryland, said it makes sense for Americans to know Spanish, which is "our second language" and which two out of three teen-agers learn. So too the languages of Asia and Russia because their actions have social and economic consequences for the United States. Yet only .3 percent study Russian, .17 percent take Cantonese and Mandarin and .77 percent Japanese, according to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
For the nation's middle and high schools, the reasons for offering French are often quite basic. One is tradition: America's love affair with French can be traced to 17th-century Southern colonists, whose classical education included the language. Though the world may have changed since then, a school's attempt to broaden its language palette can be difficult, with the teachers and time needed to offer Russian or Chinese or Arabic -- harder and longer to master than French or Spanish -- in short supply.
For the second year, Lake Forest High School in Felton, Del., a small town near Dover, is offering Japanese to 10 students. But to squeeze it into the curriculum -- to meet their language requirement, roughly half the students take Spanish, the other half French -- the class is given after school, via satellite from the University of Georgia. The program costs $5,000, and the principal, Michael Carr, said that the district could not have afforded it without a Federal grant.
There are, of course, more than a few Francophiles who are appalled at any suggestion that the importance of French is declining. After all, French is necessary for translating the later works of Voltaire, or even the earlier works of Celine Dion, a French Canadian. And how would one know the difference between coq au vin (chicken in wine sauce) and un joli coco (a stinker)?
Defenders of French can be found even in traditionally unfriendly places.
A British official at the United Nations, who insisted on anonymity so he would not be seen as a defender of the French, said that French can occasionally be useful. "If you want to impress your girlfriend," he said, "have a bit of French pillow talk."
Holding out another olive branch, he added, "I don't think you should necessarily be hard nosed, saying you should only learn a language that is going to further your business interests. People need an education to be enlightened, and French is part of that."
But French has limited practicality, he conceded. "I have enough trouble in a cab in New York," he said. "There, Urdu might be helpful."
Not so for those traveling to Quebec, where French is a necessity and the use of English is restricted on signs, or for those interested in the arts. Morgan Arenson, a ninth grader at the Fieldston School in the Bronx, is in her third year of French, which she believes will help her in becoming a ballerina. "The steps that are done, they were named in France, because that is sort of where ballet took hold," said Morgan, 14. "We do little stories in French class. Someone was throwing something and the book used the word jeter. I thought, 'Oh, I know what that is.' "
Amanda Wilder, an 11th grader at the Kent School in Litchfield County, Conn., could have chosen German, Spanish, Japanese or Latin. While most of her classmates selected Spanish, she picked French.
"I had been told that French was the language of the diplomats," she said, "and that all high-powered people, such as Madeline Albright, spoke it."
Yet it is in the area of diplomacy that French has suffered some of its bitterest losses. While some in France continue to swat away Americanized phrases like le stress and disque-jockey that have slipped through their borders, delegates of former French colonies from Africa and Southeast Asia are increasingly choosing to communicate in English rather than French at official conclaves.
And at the United Nations in 1996 the French lost a very public battle to keep Kofi Annan of Ghana from succeeding Boutros Boutros-Ghali as Secretary General. The French had objected because Mr. Annan speaks French with, well, an English accent.
It is perhaps telling that Mr. Boutros-Ghali, an Egyptian who speaks excellent French, is now secretary general of La Francophonie in Paris, which, he says, is seeking to "promote solidarity" among 52 nations that share French as a first, second or, in the case of Egypt, third language.
"My mother tongue is Arabic," Mr. Boutros-Ghali said, "I write in Arabic, dream in Arabic and have disputes with my wife in Arabic."
"But among the different languages," he added, "I believe French has a certain weight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Holliston, Mass., a third grader tackles some unfamiliar French words. (Associated Press)
 
Chart shows the percentage of people throughout the world, and which language they speak. Also shows the popular to the least popular languages throughout schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (75%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (75%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (79%); CLASSICS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BRECHT (68%); MORGAN ARENSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



593 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Stalemate Lives On After the Bombing

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON'S predicament with Iraq is painfully familiar to anyone who was ever a kid and tried the line, "If you don't stop that, I'm gonna hit you." Ideally, the adversary backed down. But sometimes he didn't, leaving you no choice but to smack him. And then, if he was still at it, you had a problem. Either you went at him again, this time for keeps, or you backed down. These are games Middle Eastern leaders know exceedingly well, and play with devilish effect.
To be sure, that is not how the Administration is painting its predicament in the wake of the 70-hour bombing of Saddam Hussein's Iraq. In a speech to the National Press Club Wednesday, Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, declared outright victory: "For Saddam, 1998 was the year to break out of the box he has been in, the year to end containment. He has failed." 
 Mr. Berger's logic was that the policy of containment rested on four pillars: economic sanctions, United Nations inspections, the credible use of force and "diplomacy to sustain an international consensus in pursuit of this goal." When Mr. Hussein tried to shake one pillar, the inspection system, he effectively challenged them all. So if the United States failed to respond with force, "there would be no deterrence against future aggression, because the threat of force would no longer be credible." Now, Mr. Berger declared, Mr. Hussein had been shown he could not shake off containment. Therefore, the United States had achieved its goal.
Mr. Berger marshaled considerable arguments in support of this contention, from a list of damage done by the bombing, to the interesting claim that international sanctions have benefited the Iraqi people, because under the policy of allowing Iraq to trade oil directly for food, the people were getting food, and not tanks, for their oil.
The problem with these arguments is that the threat of force -- like threatening to smack a pesky kid, or building a nuclear deterrent -- works best so long as it remains a threat. If used, it had best be used decisively, or the pest may prove far harder to dislodge the next time around.
The full extent of damage to Mr. Hussein's military and civil structures is not clear yet, and it is possible that the dictator is reeling from a lucky punch, or that his opponents now see more clearly the advantages of an Iraq without Saddam Hussein.
But the information from Washington and Baghdad suggests that Mr. Hussein is still firmly in place. As a result, two other pillars of the American containment policy -- United Nations inspections and international consensus -- are wobbling. Mr. Hussein has left no doubt that he will not let United Nations arms inspectors back in easily, while the growing resistance from Russia, China and, to a lesser degree, France will make it harder for America to sustain the full range of economic sanctions.
"Yes, we showed that we were prepared to use force, but we didn't show that we figured out how to use force as part of a larger strategy," said Richard N. Haass, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution. "We haven't lost sanctions, but the 70 hours of strikes clearly will lead to a further erosion of support for sanctions. I think we can keep the bulk of sanctions -- the ban on military imports, international control on revenues -- but increasingly Iraq can export whatever it wants, and import much of what it wants.
"So if we add it up, by using force without apparent purpose, it's hard to argue that the U.S. has gained over the last two weeks. We've lost ground."
THE mistake, Mr. Haass argued, was not in the use of force, in which the United States had no choice, but in trying to play it safe in choosing a strike limited in time and scope. The short-term advantage was that by defining a limited goal, in this case punishment, the Administration was certain of success. The very fact of launching a strike achieved the stated goal.
The disadvantage is that the United States is now left with a new range of problems, all of them unsavory.
If Mr. Hussein keeps the door closed to inspectors from the United Nations Special Commission, or Unscom, the United States will either have to agree to a different and less intrusive form of inspections, or it will have to bash Mr. Hussein again. Weakening Unscom would almost certainly prompt Mr. Hussein to test his new limits. If the United States does opt for force, the attack is certain to be even less popular than the last one, and Washington will be under heavy pressure to set more ambitious goals -- a palpable blow to Iraq's arms program, or a firm agreement from Mr. Hussein to allow unconditional inspections, or his fall.
Next, Russia, China and France, supported by much of the third world, would be likely to generate pressure at the United Nations Security Council for a loosening of sanctions, which Washington is not likely to withstand. That, in turn, would tempt Mr. Hussein to seek ways of creating more friction in the crumbling coalition.
Conversely, Mr. Hussein also narrows his options every time he challenges the United States. The fact that he did not immediately take reporters to sites of American bomb attacks suggest they must have been effective. And if Unscom is not allowed to inspect suspicious sites, the United States will have more incentive, and justification, to bomb them. As Mr. Berger put it, Mr. Hussein "has learned that what cannot be inspected can, in many cases, be destroyed."
A second consequence of the raids is that the United States has finally begun talking openly of ousting Mr. Hussein. In the past, the common wisdom was that toppling him in the absence of a viable opposition would create a dangerous power vacuum in a pivotal part of the Middle East, in which ethnic and religious factions and neighboring states would inevitably fall at each others' throats. But as Mr. Hussein resists every attempt to curb his ambitions, overthrowing him may come to be seen as the lesser evil.
IN his address, Mr. Berger conceded that air attacks weren't enough to dislodge Mr. Hussein, and that the United States was not now prepared to pay the high cost of the required military operation d, nor of the occupation that would follow.
Yet the fact that Mr. Hussein can foment discord in the Security Council and anti-American sentiments in the Arab world has not meant that he is making new friends or allies. Quite the contrary: All the disputes over Mr. Hussein have been about how to make him behave, not about the fact of his misbehavior, and the consensus among experts on the Middle East is that leaders the world over, from Europe to the Middle East, would now breathe a deep sigh of relief if he were toppled.
So the standoff continues, with the latest clash generating only more unknowns. As a dictator, Mr. Hussein probably measures success in terms of the confrontations he has withstood and the democratic leaders he has outlasted. No doubt he finds it heartening at times to tick off the names and fates of Western leaders who have challenged him: George Bush, defeated. Margaret Thatcher, ditto. Francois Mitterrand, dead. And now Bill Clinton, impeached.
But the United States can also find solace in precedent. "We know from experience that when people struggling for freedom gain the moral and material support of the American people, they usually prevail in the end," Mr. Berger declared. "Change will come to Iraq, at a time and in a manner that we can influence but not predict."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under Saddam Hussein's visage, Iraqis did business in a Baghdad market Wednesday, four days after the latest air strikes stopped. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PRESS (56%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INSPECTIONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



594 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: An Ugly America, Iraqis Say; No Reflection on Americans

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 26

 BODY:
An American in Baghdad is an odd and even provocative sight, so it was perhaps not surprising when a group of young Iraqis congregated around one who was wandering through a poor neighborhood on a recent afternoon.
"When I see an American or a Zionist, I want to hit him," one man called out. But his comrades quickly shouted him down. 
 "I am more civilized than to be angry at you," one of them, Ahmed Jasim, a 21-year-old student, said in fluent English. "This war is not your fault. It is the fault of your Government. But I want to ask you: when will you take us off your agenda? When will you start letting us live like human beings again?"
Officials in Washington have a simple answer to that question. They say that they have no quarrel with the Iraqi people and that the recent bombing of Iraqi targets -- like the economic sanctions against this country that have been in place for eight years -- are aimed solely at President Saddam Hussein and his regime.
That argument rings hollow to many Iraqis. Their lives have deteriorated steadily, and they have no way to affect the Government under which they live. Nonetheless, they are remarkably friendly to Americans who venture here.
Journalists and others are allowed to wander freely as long as they do not take photographs. A foreigner taking notes on a busy street, even in the sight of police officers, does not arouse any evident suspicion.
Several journalists have been expelled, however, for asking Iraqis probing questions about what they think of Mr. Hussein. Others have been denied return visas after showing what was judged to be excessive curiosity about military installations or presidential palaces.
"People here have an astonishing capacity for friendship and forgiveness," said Anne Montgomery, who is part of a Chicago-based group campaigning for an end to sanctions. "I'm not sure Americans would respond the same way if we were the ones being bombed. I personally have encountered no rancor or hostility."
Americans who have made repeated visits here say they have noticed one clear change in attitudes recently. They say that while many Iraqis have been angry with the United States Government for some time, they now show special animosity toward President Clinton. They have come to view him as the personification of forces that are bombing and blockading them, just as they saw President Bush during the Persian Gulf war.
"It is not your fault, it's Clinton who is killing us," Barnoon al-Kadisia, an unemployed laborer, said as he sipped tea with a visiting American on a recent afternoon. "We love welcoming you in our country."
Mel Lehman, a writer from New York who is working on a book about the effect of sanctions on the Iraqi people, said he arrived here at the beginning of December and "got a lot more than I bargained for."
"Three weeks after I arrived," he said, "bombs started falling near my hotel. My phone rang, and it was the reception desk inviting me down into the basement shelter. They look at you a little strangely because there are very few Americans here, but they're unfailingly friendly and kind. I find their attitude a little surprising, frankly, but pleasantly surprising."
Although many of the poorest people in Iraq seem astonishingly open to Americans, a prominent university professor, Latif al-Jumali, chairman of the English department at Baghdad University, did not feel cordial on a recent morning.
"I am not interested in speaking to any American journalist," Mr. al-Jumali said as he stepped from his car at the university gate. "When I had the opportunity, I was a regular reader of The New York Times. But the Americans and British have severed all possibility of dialogue here. I'm sorry, but I am emotional."
A physician who grew up in Britain, Mohammed al-Kaisi, recalled that when he was a teen-ager, his British friends would ask him whether he would ever fight against them if their countries went to war.
"It was a joke back then, but now it's almost serious," Dr. al-Kaisi said. "This wouldn't be happening if more people could come here and see what the sanctions are doing to us. That's why we're happy to see Americans or any other foreigners. We need them to understand our situation. They are individuals, and wars are not waged by individuals."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); BAGHDAD UNIVERSITY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAGHDAD UNIVERSITY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); WRITERS (86%); DESERT STORM (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



595 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: No Illusions About Iraq

 BODY:
If Saddam Hussein were not such a recidivist, it might be possible to fashion a less confrontational approach to restrain Iraq and prevent it from producing and using weapons of mass destruction. Pressure to ease up is building on the Security Council in the wake of the American and British air strikes this month. But the dangers of relaxing the international grip on Iraq are too great to consider the kinds of changes proposed by France and Russia, including a lifting of economic sanctions.
Unhappily, there is no ideal Iraq policy at this point. The air attacks were a crude though necessary instrument for controlling Baghdad's weapons once it became clear on-site inspections were no longer effective. But without further outside intervention, Iraq should be able to rebuild weapons and missile plants within a year. If inspectors are unable to resume work, future military attacks may be required to diminish the arsenal again. 
 A purely diplomatic solution would be preferable, but no one has devised a workable plan for dealing with a dictatorial regime in Baghdad bent on terrorizing its neighbors as well as its own citizens. It is hard to negotiate with a tyrant who has no intention of honoring his commitments and who sees nuclear, chemical and biological weapons as his country's salvation.
The French Foreign Minister, Hubert Vedrine, proposes to deal with Saddam Hussein by rewarding his belligerence. Mr. Vedrine would dismantle the present United Nations inspection program and replace it with one more acceptable to Iraq's friends on the Security Council, then lift the embargo on Iraqi oil sales. Firing Richard Butler, the chief weapons inspector, and allowing Iraq to replenish its treasury with billions of dollars in oil revenue, sounds more like a strategy for winning France new business opportunities in Iraq than for restraining Mr. Hussein. Russia would also like to see the Security Council lighten sanctions.
Any approach to Iraq that depends on Security Council unity is destined to be weak. While France seeks trade, Russia hopes to collect money it is owed from arms sales to Baghdad a decade ago. China is indifferent to Iraqi threats. The United States and Britain may soon be left with no choice but to veto a move to reduce or lift sanctions, with the prospect of enforcing an unpopular oil embargo.
The Clinton Administration should not paper over the difficulties ahead by talking casually about finding new leaders for Iraq. The problem of Saddam Hussein is not likely to be fixed by giving millions of dollars to disorganized and divided Iraqi opposition groups or beaming uncensored radio broadcasts into Iraq. There is no painless way to deal with Iraq. If there were, Mr. Hussein would not have managed to remain in power for 19 years of brutal rule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



596 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY;
Can TooMany Options Slow Down a Company?

BYLINE: By RICHARD TEITELBAUM

 BODY:
When it comes to employee stock options, it seems, there can be too much of a good thing. A new study by Watson Wyatt Worldwide, a management consulting firm in Bethesda, Md., found that those companies that grant the largest number of stock options substantially underperformed their stingier peers.
The study tracked the 1997 performance of 940 companies in various industries. Watson Wyatt divided the companies into three groups, based on potential dilution to their shares if the options already granted, as well as those available for future grants, were exercised. 
 That dilution, expressed as a percentage of shares outstanding and commonly referred to as "overhang," was a hefty 18.7 percent for the top third of the companies surveyed. This group returned a median of just 13.5 percent to shareholders in 1997. By contrast, the middle third of the companies surveyed, whose shares would be diluted by just 10.6 percent if all the options were exercised, returned a median of 16.9 percent.
And, it seems, the chief financial officer can be too parsimonious with options as well. The bottom third of companies surveyed, with potential share dilution of just 5.7 percent, returned 16.2 percent, more than the spendthrifts, to be sure, but still less than the middle group.
"Very high overhang lowers returns; very low overhang hurts returns," said Ira T. Kay, global practice director of executive compensation consulting at Watson Wyatt.
The options glut has raised the hackles of institutional investors, especially those with holdings in the high-technology industry, which tends to grant relatively more options to employees. RICHARD TEITELBAUM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (74%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TOWERS WATSON & CO (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK OPTIONS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



597 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Rules On Spending Leave Little Room For New Programs

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 26

 BODY:
As the Clinton Administration finishes drawing up its tax and spending proposals for the next fiscal year, it is confronting the perplexing but painful reality that despite mounting Federal budget surpluses there is little money for new programs, and some areas could face cuts.
Given the strict spending caps enacted at a time when the deficit seemed to be a permanent fixture, Administration officials are reaching deep into their bag of budget tricks to find ways to pay for the programs that President Clinton wants to propose when he sets out his priorities to Congress next month. 
 Administration officials said they would have enough money available in their budget plan to show that Mr. Clinton can still push an activist agenda despite his impeachment and pending Senate trial. Mr. Clinton is expected to propose some domestic programs that went nowhere in Congress this year, like tax breaks for child care expenses, school construction and anti-pollution efforts, as well as to come up with some new initiatives like assistance for disabled people returning to work.
But he is also committed to providing more money for the Pentagon, and has already announced his support for an increase in pay and pensions for the military.
Mr. Clinton has told members of Congress that it will be all but impossible to deal with all the issues facing the country, from providing more military spending to dealing with Medicare's looming troubles to meeting Democratic priorities for domestic programs, unless there is agreement to use some of the surplus, a step that Mr. Clinton continues to vow that he will not even consider until the nation settles on a plan to shore up Social Security.
"Staying with the policy of reserving the surplus until we've fixed Social Security has left us with a tight budget, but balancing fiscal discipline with efforts to pass new investments in education and other priorities has in one form or another been the balancing act the President has succeeded in pulling off throughout his tenure," said Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser.
In the meantime, the Administration is assembling a budget for the year starting next Oct. 1 that does not rely on the surplus, but stays in balance by offsetting the cost of new programs with cuts in others and by creating new pots of money, at least on paper. Administration officials declined to divulge any details, but people with whom they have consulted said the ideas under consideration included finding ways to squeeze more money out of tobacco companies and cigarette sales, and closing a variety of corporate tax loopholes.
Republicans, too, are chafing under the budget rules. Stymied by the Administration in their efforts to get a big tax cut this year, Republicans are regrouping so they can try again.
One plan being considered by Senate Republicans calls for a tax cut to be financed out of budget surpluses over the next decade, but in a way intended to deflect criticism from Democrats that it would endanger Social Security. Under the plan, the Government would continue to set aside the portion of the surplus generated by the payroll taxes that finance Social Security. Excess Social Security taxes accounted for all of last year's $70 billion surplus, and are expected to account for nearly all of the surplus for the next several years.
But with new, albeit tentative, analyses showing that the non-Social Security portion of the surplus could grow more rapidly than anticipated, Republicans are optimistic that they can pay for a big tax cut and help pay for needed spending increases without being accused of endangering the future of the retirement system.
The immediate problem for the coming year centers on the spending caps set out in the budget law. The caps, which have grown increasingly tight in the last few years, effectively require a freeze in spending on discretionary programs for the budget year that will start next Oct. 1 -- meaning a cut in many cases once inflation is taken into account.
The tightness of the caps was a jolt even to members of Mr. Clinton's Cabinet, who in recent months proposed programs costing tens of billions of dollars more than the Administration has to work with.
"Coming into this year's budget there were two forces at work that make it a difficult year, and not just for us," said Jacob J. Lew, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget. "The caps are essentially frozen, and the tightness is increasing from year to year.
"The second is that expectations are high, because of the surplus and because of the very success we had in the negotiations in September and October," Mr. Lew said, referring to the last-minute agreement by Republicans during this year's budget negotiations to finance some of Mr. Clinton's priorities, especially in education.
As a result, many of Mr. Clinton's plans this year will be limited or scaled back. On Wednesday, he unveiled his plan to provide more money next year for assistance to the homeless. Under the plan, he will ask for Federal spending of $1.125 billion for the year starting next Oct. 1, up from $975 million this year. But a year ago he was pushing for a bigger increase, to $1.15 billion.
The outlook for domestic programs is particularly clouded by a change in the budget rules that takes effect in the coming year. The change removes a "fire wall" between the money available for domestic programs and the money available for military programs, essentially allowing one area to be raided to finance the other.
Republicans are pressing hard for a substantial increase in Pentagon spending next year, adjusted for inflation, to begin offsetting years of declines. The White House has already scaled back a request from the Pentagon but seems likely to approve a multibillion-dollar increase for next year, and will no doubt have to negotiate a larger figure with Congress before the budget process ends.
"The long and short of it is that the discretionary caps, even if we kept defense at levels we had been projecting, would be incredibly tight," said Thomas S. Kahn, the staff director and chief counsel for Democrats on the House Budget Committee. By increasing military spending, he said, "it's going to take a huge whack out of nondefense discretionary, and shows even more clearly how difficult it's going to be to live within the caps."
Members of both parties say the spending caps remain a valuable source of fiscal discipline for Washington and a source of considerable reassurance to Wall Street, which remains wary of the Federal Government's penchant for living beyond its means.
But while the caps are almost certain to remain in place, both parties are likely to search for ways around them, as they did in the negotiations that concluded the current year's budget, when Congress was racing to leave town for the midterm elections.
Congress and the Administration agreed to spend $20 billion outside the caps by designating a wide range of programs as "emergencies," including aid to farmers and efforts to deal with the computer software problems associated with the year 2000. To the degree that those programs continue to be financed next year, they would come at least partly under the spending caps, reducing money available elsewhere.
Similarly, Congress and the Administration agreed to finance $4.6 billion in this year's education spending out of next year's budget, reducing available money for next year by that amount.
"An unusually large share of the money has already been spoken for by the get-out-of-town antics indulged in during September," said Martha Phillips, the executive director of the Concord Coalition, a fiscal watchdog group. "I don't know whether I'm more concerned that they will face up to the problem and say we can't live within these limits anymore so let's increase them, or that they won't face up to it and let the spending ooze out through a lot of budget games."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (63%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); CHILD CARE (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



598 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Choosing Money Over the Military

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BEDFORD, Mass., Dec. 23

 BODY:
Maj. Rick Coveno of the Air Force saw his comrades fall, one by one.
Not to enemy fire. To civilian hire. 
 During a recent assignment developing a military satellite program, all five of the other midlevel officers working with him chose to take jobs in private industry rather than their next Air Force posting, Major Coveno said.
Father to three young children, with a fourth on the way, he has resisted such lures so far, despite overtures from job recruiters, or headhunters, and a sharp awareness of the additional money he could be earning.
But lately, he said, "For me and my family, we've been weighing both sides very heavily. I've even put out some resumes, even though I love my work right now in the Air Force and we're not poor by any means."
It is just such swayable young officers that Defense Secretary William S. Cohen seemed to have in his sights when he announced this week that he was requesting the biggest raise in basic military pay in a generation, with particular salary carrots for midlevel officers like Major Coveno.
For the old rule -- that a strong economy enables a strong military -- has twisted in the current gale of prosperity. An economy this strong, with unemployment this low, becomes an impediment to the military's efforts to recruit and retain soldiers. In Secretary Cohen's words, "It's very hard to compete against a robust economy such as we have."
And it seems particularly hard to compete in places like Massachusetts, where unemployment hovers above 3 percent. That is especially true at places like Hanscom Air Force Base here, the headquarters for the Air Force's electronics development programs, whose highly trained staff works a short ride from Boston's thriving high-technology companies.
Capt. Chris Ruefer, a contracting specialist here, has seen friends "leaving with dollar signs in their eyes." Capt. David L. Peeler Jr. has watched colleagues, fellow experts in cost analysis, calculate to the last digit their current compensation and the comparative advantages of civilian salaries and quality of life, and decide to go.
And Capt. Joe Allegretti, a public affairs officer, recalled the rumblings among top-trained pilots in the overseas air squadron to which he was recently assigned: "People were really considering getting out," in part simply because Vietnam War-era pilots still in the military were getting on in years, he said, but also because "the economy's good, so there's more flying getting done.
Among a handful interviewed here, most said they had received letters from job recruiters. Missile launch officers may not get many nibbles, but a financial specialist like Captain Peeler, whose skills are especially transferable to an accounting or consulting firm, gets them constantly, he said. "And the job offers are out there," he said.
The headhunters seem, they said, to be looking for midlevel officers like them -- old enough to have gained valuable skills and often master's degrees during their service, young enough to have long working lives ahead of them and not so close to retirement that they would be fools to leave now.
The departure of many young officers, several pointed out, is part of the usual planned-for attrition of military personnel in a pyramid structure. Not everyone is supposed to rise to general. But in part, they said, the sizzling heat of the economy is also at work.
The military must seek a tricky balance, noted Maj. John Driessnack, another financial specialist. "We need to stay close enough to the economy that it doesn't really inhibit those who want to serve their country," he said. "You don't want someone in the military because that's the best offer they got. That's not the person I want flying the fighter or in charge of nuclear missiles. They need to have a higher calling. On the other hand, they should enjoy some of the benefits of the society they're protecting. Where that balance is, who knows?"
One thing is certain, however, several officers said: the balance has definitely been off lately, and the promised pay raise will help redress that.
"Quite honestly, I don't believe the military should get the same amount you could get on the outside because it is service," said Major Coveno, a program manager whose salary along with benefits like a housing allowance, is in the $60,000 range. "But you can't have such a big spread that you're losing all your best people, and I do see that, mostly in younger captains. A lot of the sharpest folks that can get the money on the outside take it."
The raises proposed this week would be as large as 9.9 percent for midcareer officers like Major Coveno; President Clinton has already said he intends to raise salaries by 4.4 percent for all 1.4 million military personnel beginning in January 2000.
The proposed raises will not, however, change a basic aspect of the pay system that several officers mentioned as a glaring difference from civilian life: Officers receive 40 or 50 percent of their base pay if they retire after 20 years, but they do not have 401k plans, they have no hold on accumulating equity, they see none of the joy of compound interest.
Whereas, Major Driessnack said, "If you go work for Andersen Consulting or Arthur Andersen or Coopers & Lybrand, at the 20-year point you'd be a partner and a millionaire."
Another remaining source of discontent, one that commanders say they are working on, is the heavy demands of military life, demands that seem to have gotten only heavier in this putatively mellower post-cold-war world. The armed forces have shrunk, but the missions and temporary-duty stints in places like Iraq and Saudi Arabia have multiplied for the soldiers remaining. And with growing children and working spouses, it becomes harder and harder to accept the perpetual transfers to new bases.
Captain Ruefer says he sees many colleagues leaving not for the money but to have more of a life.
"You see guys working in a business environment," he said. "And they have all these degrees, and they're going away all the time, and when they're not deployed they're working millions of hours and they go, 'Gee, my buddies from college are earning from 35 to 50 percent more than me, depending on the job, and they don't go away from their families for 120 days a year.' "
When officers are facing their third or fourth or fifth rotation in the desert, Captain Peeler said, they are likely to say, "It's Christmas; I just really don't want to spend Christmas away again. I've got three job offers. And they walk in and they sign their name and go, 'No, thank you,' and they give their six-month notice."
Another particular attraction of the civilian work world, some officers said, was the ability of top achievers -- a category that Air Force officers tend to be convinced includes them -- to rise meteorically, in job title and salary, in a way that the carefully staggered military system of promotion does not allow.
One of Captain Peeler's friends who recently left for private industry took something of a pay cut, he said, but if the friend did as well as in the military, "he will move up faster and by the time I'm a major, he'll make twice what I make."
Despite all this griping, a visitor to Hanscom is not left with any kind of impression that there will soon be a sign posted asking the last one to leave to turn out the lights. Virtually all the officers interviewed said they enjoyed their colleagues and their work, in particular the ability to manage important projects worth hundreds of millions of dollars, and intended to stay in the service through retirement.
They had also, however, clearly been thinking and jawing quite a bit about boom-time inequity. "It's nice to see the leadership recognizing what's been talked about for a couple of years at our level," Captain Peeler said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Air Force Maj. Rick Coveno, Capt. Chris Ruefer, Capt. Joe Allegretti and Capt. David L. Peeler Jr. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WAGES AND SALARIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HANSCOM AIR FORCE BASE (MASS) ARMED FORCES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); BUDGETS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (71%); CHILDREN (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



599 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Novelty Gone, Theme Restaurants Are Tumbling

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Next month, Television City and the Fashion Cafe, two theme restaurants at Rockefeller Center whose owners once dreamed of branches in major cities around the world, will close.
On Broadway at 49th Street, work stopped nearly a year ago on David Copperfield's Magic Underground, a theme restaurant that was supposed to combine magic, merchandise and good food. The owners have spent nearly $30 million, but it may never open. 
 The Official All Star Cafe in Times Square has quietly been offered for sale, along with the nine other cafes in the chain. And several troubled restaurants in its parent chain, Planet Hollywood, are on the block.
Theme restaurants, which exploded across the urban skyline three or four years ago with promises of untold profits from a slickly packaged blend of eating, shopping and entertainment, are collapsing. Even former Wall Street favorites like Hard Rock Cafe, Planet Hollywood and Rainforest Cafe have seen sales tumble as diners go elsewhere.
Industry analysts and restaurant consultants cite various reasons. Though the restaurants' themes ranged from movie or TV memories to sports stars, supermodels and tropical rain forests, the food was often dismissed as terrible. The elaborate decor -- rock-and-roll collectibles, racing cars, animatronic jungle habitats -- was impressive but distracting, and the novelty soon wore thin. Rapid expansion into smaller cities like Indianapolis undercut the cachet of flagship restaurants in London and New York. Landlords, who once welcomed theme restaurants, have turned their backs, much like the Wall Street financiers who helped ignite the short-lived boom.
"The life cycle of theme restaurants has been a lot shorter than anyone expected," said Ron Paul, president of Technomic Inc., a restaurant consulting firm based in Chicago. "Even in New York, where there's a huge tourist population, the novelty's gone. It turns out that the consumer had a lot more entertainment alternatives."
The trend is not confined to New York.
The Fashion Cafe in London went into receivership in October. Planet Hollywood closed its movie-theme restaurants in Aspen, Colo., and Jakarta, Indonesia, and scratched plans to open an All Star Cafe in Chicago. Copperfield's Magic Underground scrapped plans to open restaurants in Chicago and Las Vegas, Nev., though it still hopes to open one in Orlando, Fla. Many other themes never got beyond the first press release.
Restaurant analysts and real estate executives say the concept is not necessarily dead. They expect Hard Rock, the largest and oldest theme chain, to survive and even prosper, because it has done the best job of focusing on food and decor. Planet Hollywood is working on a plan to reorganize as a leaner company, jettison All Star Cafe and pull out of its tailspin. Newcomers like ESPN Zone and Wrestlemania Cafe, with their tie-ins to television, may catch on.
But the carnage has been enormous in an industry where the number of theme restaurant chains jumped from 6 to more than 30 in six years, and revenues rose to more than $2 billion today from an estimated $300 million in 1992.
Dive!, a theme chain backed by Steven Spielberg and based on claustrophobic submarine spaces and submarine sandwiches, has not gone beyond Los Angeles and Las Vegas. Billboard Live, featuring live music from Billboard magazine charts, died in Los Angeles. Vegas, which blended food and high-kicking chorus girls, announced its debut at a news conference in Times Square in September 1996 and promptly disappeared. Three never got beyond the hype stage: RKO Pictures, which was to combine food and old movies; Marvel Mania, which was based on Marvel comic book heroes, and Chefs of the World, a theme chain that would celebrate famous chefs.
"The industry's going to constrict dramatically and somewhat violently, either through bankruptcy or restaurant closings," said James Berk, president and chief executive of Hard Rock Cafe International, which operates 98 restaurants as well as hotels, concert venues and a record company. "There will be no additional worldwide theme restaurant chains." Instead, he said, "what will be left will be either good restaurants" or some single-site themes called "one-off" operations -- restaurants located just outside major tourist attractions that depend on the tourist stream for survival.
The present economic situation is a far cry from the mid-1990's.
Robert Earl, the impresario who had helped Hard Rock expand well beyond its London roots, started Planet Hollywood in 1992 with the actors Bruce Willis, Demi Moore and Arnold Schwarzenegger, adding 10 to 20 restaurants a year before going public in 1996.
At about that time, restaurateurs saw theme restaurants as a bonanza. Food and beverage operations generated the 10 percent profit typical of any successful restaurant, but the high-priced merchandise -- T-shirts, sweatshirts, leather jackets -- accounted for as much as 45 percent of the total revenues and as much as 70 percent of profit margins.
In Manhattan, eager developers created what was practically a theme-restaurant district. The Jekyll & Hyde Club, the Motown Cafe and the Harley-Davidson Cafe followed Hard Rock and Planet Hollywood onto 57th Street and Avenue of the Americas. Comedy Nation, the Fashion Cafe and Television City also opened outlets in the area.
"There was a time when investors and operators thought that theme restaurants were a sure-fire formula for making lots of money," said Michael G. Mueller, a restaurant analyst with Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "That's since been disproven by the drop in same-store sales at chains like Planet Hollywood."
In the first nine months of 1998, Planet Hollywood lost $15.7 million, compared with a profit of $52.1 million during the same period last year. Sales dropped 20 percent in the third quarter of this year at restaurants open for more than 18 months, continuing a two-year trend. Finally, shares of Planet Hollywood have plunged to less than $3 today from a high of $32.13 in 1996.
Rainforest Cafe expects sales to drop by as much as 18 percent this year at the six restaurants that have been open for more than 18 months.
At Hard Rock, sales were down about 10.1 percent in the first nine months of this year, while overall revenue and operating profits rose more than 2 percent. Much of the decline came from a drop in sales of Hard Rock T-shirts and caps, Mr. Berk said, not because tourists and local residents were ignoring the restaurants. Two years ago, Mr. Berk said, the company realized that it had to cut prices and improve the food, while periodically changing the decor, to keep customers interested.
"People came to see the stars; there weren't any," said Robert K. Futterman, a retail real estate broker based in New York who has been to most theme restaurants. "They came to eat the food, and it was terrible. What do you need more than one T-shirt for? The thrill is gone."
At Planet Hollywood, Mr. Earl is betting that the public has not lost its taste for theme restaurants. In January, the company is scheduled to unveil a revitalization program called Planet 2000, which is linked to the opening of the Planet Hollywood Hotel in Times Square. The company has laid off more than 70 people worldwide and has struggled with its lenders. Mr. Earl said the company would introduce new menus, prices, logos and designs for the restaurants and additional movie stars.
"I think it's fixable," he said. "After the narrower concepts close, people will come back to Hard Rock and Planet Hollywood. There is some carnage, and I think there's more coming. You'll end up with the survival of the stronger ones."
Some Planet Hollywood investors and real estate executives said Planet Hollywood was planning to dismantle the All Star chain. They said Planet Hollywood was quietly trying to sell the restaurants, or to find a partner, like Wrestlemania Cafe, that would create a new chain.
"They've offered a package of All Star locations, and New York is one of them," Mr. Futterman said. "If they find someone to buy the chain, they'd throw in the towel."
Mr. Earl declined to discuss the company's talks with Wrestlemania, as did James Bell, senior vice president of merchandising at the World Wrestling Federation, who has been searching for a restaurant location in Times Square. Wrestlemania Cafe would feature live wrestling and broadcasts with stars like the Undertaker and Stone Cold Steve Austin.
"If we need to be leaner and meaner for an improved financial performance, we'll do it," Mr. Earl said. "We do have some underperforming assets."
Disney's ESPN Zone, with its electronic games, constantly changing array of sports stars and broadcasts for cable television, is doing well in Baltimore and is set to open in Times Square next year. Many analysts and real estate brokers expect it to knock what life remains out of All Star Cafe.
Glen Tullman, vice chairman of the company running Copperfield's Magic Underground, said he expected to complete a new round of fund-raising for the project in Times Square, but analysts and restaurateurs say it will be almost impossible for the owners to make money after having spent nearly $30 million on a single site.
David Liederman, the founder of Television City, a theme restaurant he opened in 1996 at Rockefeller Center and hoped to bring to other cities, holds out little hope for most theme restaurant chains. He said the time and money it took to develop an elaborate theme forced him to charge prices that many people were unwilling to pay. Next month, Mr. Liederman said, he will convert Television City into Chez Louis, a restaurant specializing in roast chicken cooked over wood fires, and focus on doing a few things well.
"I'm leading the de-theming pack," Mr. Liederman said. "I think there's going to be a massive exodus out of this business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Planet Hollywood, once a Wall Street favorite, is working on a plan to reorganize as a leaner company by jettisoning its All Star Cafe chain. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 38); (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (75%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (75%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (67%); 

COMPANY: TELEVISION CITY (RESTAURANT CHAIN); FASHION CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN); HARD ROCK CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN) PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEVISION CITY (RESTAURANT CHAIN); FASHION CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN); HARD ROCK CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (75%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (67%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) RESTAURANTS (95%); THEME RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); TRENDS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); RAIN FORESTS (68%); POP & ROCK (68%); WRESTLING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ATHLETES (52%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RON PAUL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998



600 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Losing Teams Are Nothing New

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
With each astonishing signing by a high-revenue club this off season, the lament has grown louder: the day the 1999 season begins, half the teams, if not more than half, will not have a chance to win a spot in next October's playoffs. Gene Orza wonders when that fact of major league life has not existed.
"When was it not true?" asked Orza, the players association's No. 2 official. 
 Even a cursory check supports his point. Baseball history has been filled with teams that didn't have a chance from the opening pitch.
In a 35-year period from 1934 through 1968, the franchise now known as the Oakland Athletics finished in the second division, the lower half of the league standing, 33 times. The Washington Senators (later the Minnesota Twins) finished in the second division 24 times in a 28-year period from 1934 through 1961.
In the first 59 years of the franchise now known as the Baltimore Orioles, the team finished in the second division 47 times. It finished first once, as the St. Louis Browns in 1944.
The Chicago Cubs played for 20 successive seasons, 1947 through 1966, without emerging from the second division. The Philadelphia Phillies wound up in the lower half of the standings 45 times in the 56 seasons from 1918 through 1973.
At the other end of the spectrum, the Yankees won 22 pennants in 29 years, from 1936 through 1964, and 29 pennants in 44 seasons, from 1921 through 1964.
In a shorter period, a 10-year stretch from 1947 through 1956, the Brooklyn Dodgers finished first six times.
The St. Louis Cardinals won nine pennants and finished in the first division nine other times in the 21-season stretch from 1926 through 1946. In each of the next three years they finished second.
The Yankees' dominance prompted their opponents to vote for the implementation of the draft of amateur players, beginning in 1966, but these days nonplaying baseball people view the predraft times as the good old days. Salaries in those times were not an issue.
The players association, not unexpectedly, views recent developments differently from Major League Baseball officials, owners and general managers.
As long ago as 1976, Bowie Kuhn, then the commissioner, decried the advent of free agency, warning that it would wreck competitive balance. The fact that no team repeated as World Series champion from 1978 until 1993 presumably did not alter Kuhn's thinking.
Four commissioners later, the people on the management side of the competitive fence say growing payroll disparity is wrecking competitive balance. Bud Selig, the current commissioner, has made the issue his No. 1 priority.
But the players' representatives become uncomfortable when owners start mentioning competitive balance.
"Competitive balance does not deserve to be uttered with a view toward what it really means," Orza said. "Competitive balance is a code for restraining payroll levels. That's what it means historically. They've been using that term for the last 20 years. They don't mean competitive balance."
Officials and owners point to the 1998 experience to support what they say they mean. None of the 17 teams with payrolls under $48 million reached the playoffs. Only two of those teams, St. Louis and Toronto, had winning records. Of the 13 teams above that payroll plateau, only Baltimore had a losing record.
And they see the trend becoming more severe.
"Not only are payrolls going up, but they're also going down," Sandy Alderson, Major League Baseball's vice president for baseball operations, warned last month. "We lose sight of the fact that there are some clubs that are giving up."
The Minnesota Twins last week became a case for Alderson's point. Proclaiming they could not compete in the current economy, the Twins said they would slash their payroll from a season-ending $24.5 million to a figure between $10 million and $15 million. The Montreal Expos had last season's lowest payroll, $8,317,500.
Orza said no one should be surprised that payroll disparity exists.
"Who bought into a system that says New York and Los Angeles shouldn't spend more than Montreal?" he asked. "This notion that the goal of baseball should be to create a balance by which all the teams, no matter what their population base, what fan support they have, however well marketed and run they are, should have an equal chance to win the World Series isn't realistic. It's just the way it is. There always will be disparities."
When owners buy teams, he added, they understand the rules.
"They don't say at owners meetings, 'Because I have only 400,000 people available for local TV and you have seven million, I'm going to want your money,' " Orza said. "They say, 'Let me in and I'll compete with you and beat your brains out.' Then when they don't win, they say: 'It's not because I run a bad franchise or made mistakes. It's the other guy has an unfair edge over me because I'm in Montreal and they're in New York.' "
The owners will continue to lament payroll disparity, but they obviously should not expect a sympathetic ear from the players association.
 
A Pox on Several Houses
 The toughness that players show in games and that agents display in contract negotiations evidently does not carry over to verbal assaults.
Executives of the Houston Astros recently had the audacity to make some unflattering comments about the bargaining position of Roger Clemens and his agent, Randy Hendricks, and Clemens and Hendricks reacted as if they were going to take their bat and ball and go home. Maybe age has thinned their skin.
The entire Clemens business has become a fiasco, for the Astros, for the Toronto Blue Jays, for the five-time Cy Young award winner, for baseball.
First, the Blue Jays gave Clemens a double-edged sword by agreeing to let him have the right to not only request a trade but also veto a trade. He could dictate where the Blue Jays could trade him while they were under the pressure of having to trade him if he so wanted.
Second, once Clemens asked to be traded, the Astros, his hometown team, became the most likely team to get him. The only trouble was that the Astros, in this instance, started to resemble the Yankees: one hand, in this case Gerry Hunsicker, the general manager, apparently didn't know what the other hand, Drayton McLane Jr., the owner, was doing.
Hunsicker publicly expressed outrage over the terms Clemens sought for a revised contract before he would approve a trade, only to have McLane, who had been negotiating with Hendricks, apologize to Clemens and Hendricks for Hunsicker's remarks. It's always good for organizational unity when the owner panders to a player instead of supporting his general manager.
Third, Clemens looks bad because of his effort to get an additional $27.4 million for one year -- a $15 million salary for an added third year, the rest as a signing bonus divided evenly over the three years of the contract. It has prompted people to believe, correctly or not, that his trade request had more to do with money than with his desire to play with a contender or closer to home.
Fourth, Major League Baseball looks bad because its president and chief operating officer, Paul Beeston, was the Blue Jays' president at the time who held out Toronto's deal-clinching carrot to Clemens.
Beeston now faces a hefty fine for not submitting the agreement with Clemens's contract. Beeston, an upstanding and outstanding official, has been forthright internally about his role and will accept his punishment. But it is embarrassing for him and for baseball.
Fifth, the Blue Jays have compounded the matter by ignoring established guidelines and allowing Clemens and his agent to speak with other clubs before a trade was completed. Gord Ash, the Blue Jays' general manager, has acknowledged that he did not "follow the letter of the law."
 
Brown's Big Coup
 Did the Los Angeles Dodgers really give Kevin Brown a seven-year contract for $105 million? Information circulating in the upper echelon of baseball has it that the next best offer Brown had was $65 million for five years from the Colorado Rockies, even though Scott Boras, the pitcher's agent, may say otherwise.
In setting out to secure the richest contract in baseball history, Boras made much of Brown's effort in helping two different teams reach the World Series in successive seasons. But he omitted Brown's contribution in the World Series itself. In four starts for Florida and San Diego, Brown had a 0-3 record -- his teams lost all four games -- and a 6.04 earned run average, allowing 40 base runners in 25 1/3 innings.
 
Using the Yankees
 When Albert Belle was a free agent last month, he was talking seriously with the Yankees, whose presence in a bidding war is always beneficial to a player. How does Belle really feel about playing for the Yankees?
In the contract he signed with Baltimore, he was given a complete no-trade provision for the first three years, and for the last two years he was able to list eight teams he can be traded to: Anaheim, Arizona, Atlanta, Colorado, San Diego, Seattle, St. Louis and Texas. Somehow he left out the Yankees.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Washington Manager Bucky Harris opening spring training in 1936. The Senators finished a glorious fourth that season, but soon sank back to their comfortable position near the bottom of the American League. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); OAKLAND A'S (56%); MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); OAKLAND A'S (56%); MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; FINANCES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY GENE ORZA (84%); JOHN MAJOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998

 
