

1001 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Lure of Green Cards Brings Big Investments for Remote Resort in Vermont

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
JAY PEAK, Vt. -- At this remote outpost by the Canadian border, Bill Stenger is overseeing what he says is the biggest economic development project that Vermont has ever seen.
He is expanding the Jay Peak ski resort, which he co-owns, but he is also building a biomedical research firm and a window manufacturing plant, extending the runway at the local airport and rehabilitating much of the nearby town of Newport, where he lives. There, he is developing the waterfront, adding the town's first hotel and a conference center and rebuilding an entire downtown block. He is also creating what he says is the largest indoor mountain bike park in the world and a state-of-the art tennis center.
The price tag for the entire project, which Mr. Stenger says will create 10,000 direct and indirect jobs over several years, is $865 million.
But even more unusual than the size of the undertaking is the method by which Mr. Stenger and his business partner, Ariel Quiros, are financing it. They have tapped into a federal program that gives green cards, or permanent residency, to foreigners who invest at least $500,000 in an American business -- the reward for the investment is a chance at United States citizenship. 
Mr. Stenger has already attracted 550 foreign investors from 60 countries to put up $275 million for the first phase: a hotel here at the Jay Peak ski complex, an indoor water park the size of a football field, an ice hockey arena, condominiums, restaurants and stores.
The second and third phases, now under way, require 1,000 additional foreign investors to put up $500 million to overhaul Newport and to develop the nearby Burke Mountain ski area.
Mr. Stenger and Mr. Quiros are putting up $90 million themselves. But even at $785 million, this is one of the single biggest projects in the country financed under the investor program.
Congress created the visa program in 1990 to help stimulate the economy. Because of a cumbersome process and complaints of fraud and corruption, it was long underused.
But a confluence of events in recent years has led to its rather sudden revival: the program was improved; the financial crisis of 2008 made it hard for developers to get loans from commercial banks; and foreign nationals, especially in China, were accumulating vast wealth and were eager for their children to study and live in the United States.
In 2006, the government issued just 802 of these EB-5 visas to investors and their families; this year, it granted 7,818.
The program is now growing so rapidly that in the next year or two the number issued will probably reach the annual limit of 10,000. For the first time in the program's history, applicants may be turned away.
Mr. Stenger, 64, who began his career as a ski instructor, and Mr. Quiros, 56, who spent years in the import-export business and already owned thousands of acres here, began leveraging the visa program five years ago, in the early stages of its revival. Along with state officials, who monitor and audit their projects, and Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Democrat who has championed the program in Washington, the two men have sought to make Jay Peak a national showcase for the investor program.
Mr. Quiros said these projects would have been impossible without it.
''It's too hard to get money of this magnitude,'' he said, ''especially with the economic situation that exists today.''
The immigrant investors do not have to get involved in the business, though it must create or save at least 10 jobs, and they can live anywhere they want.
One potential investor in Jay Peak is Steve Green, 49, an Englishman who has had a successful career in banking and reinsurance and has lived in Bermuda for 25 years.
''The reason to explore this and potentially to do it -- and I'm more than 50-50 inclined to do it -- is that it would give me an opportunity to relocate in the United States, keep a small home in Bermuda, spend the majority of my retirement in the United States and confer those rights on my children,'' he said in a telephone interview from Bermuda.
Mr. Green said his hesitation about investing here stemmed from uncertainty over what kind of financial return he would get. ''There is a substantial risk that you don't get anything back,'' he said.
Investors must put up $1 million for a visa, but if they invest in a rural area or one with high unemployment, that is reduced to $500,000.
This corner of Vermont, called the Northeast Kingdom, is certainly rural. The construction going on here would make a splash anywhere, but in this stretch of mountains and dairy farms, the scope of Mr. Stenger's vision is so vast that many residents say they are still trying to comprehend it.
The 10,000 anticipated jobs are twice the population of Newport; the $500,000 from one investor is equal to the town's annual budget.
''It's hard for us to wrap our head around what $200 million is going to mean,'' said Patricia Sears, the executive director of the Newport City Renaissance Corporation, a nonprofit group that promotes development. ''Even $5 million is a lot of millions to us.''
The town is trying to prepare for the coming transformation. State and local officials are planning ways to train and educate residents for the anticipated jobs -- Mr. Stenger said 75 percent of the work force would be Vermonters. And the town has adopted a zoning code that it hopes will keep Newport's small-town character.
But the sweeping overhaul has created concerns. Some worry that Newport will become gentrified and too expensive, especially for older residents. They expect traffic jams. And some say that however beneficial the project may be in creating short-term jobs, it will never attract enough business to sustain itself because the region is so remote.
''There's a level of nervousness -- watching Bill spend money is like watching my grandson spend Monopoly money,'' said Chris Braithwaite, the publisher of the local newspaper, The Barton Chronicle. ''But Bill has been here a long time and has a real commitment to this community.''
Some residents are already being confronted with new realities. At the Family Recipe, a small restaurant on Main Street, Carol Bonnean, 50, the owner, said she felt as if the rug was pulled out from under her when she learned that her business -- and the entire block on which it sits -- would be razed. She said she was losing her investment and had no idea where she would go.
Mr. Stenger said he planned to talk with everyone who would be dislocated and help them find new opportunities. As for how to make his projects sustainable, he said they would draw visitors, including thousands of Canadians from just over the border, by their quality.
''We need striking and unique facilities to move people,'' he said at a recent gathering of government officials and educators who are planning for the new growth. The water park at Jay Peak, with its retractable roof, is an example of his approach; it provides ''weatherproof'' recreation at a ski resort that cannot always guarantee enough snow, and it has helped turn Jay Peak into a year-round destination.
Mr. Stenger dismissed criticism that the visa program simply allowed rich people to jump ahead of others in line for citizenship.
''Yes, it's true that the investment is getting them their green card,'' Mr. Stenger said. ''But to say they're buying their way into the country -- well, they're investing in products and programs that are having a tremendously positive impact on the community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Work has begun in Jay Peak, Vt., on projects being planned by Bill Stenger, left, a co-owner of a resort there that has become a year-round destination, in part because of an indoor water park, below. Mr. Stenger has secured financing through a visa program that gives investors permanent residence. A video of him at the resort: nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) MAP: Some fear Jay Peak's remote location will deter tourists. (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); SKIING (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); FAMILY (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (77%); SKIING FACILITIES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); WATER PARKS (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (69%); CORRUPTION (61%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (57%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (56%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); ICE HOCKEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1002 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Among Top News Stories, A War Is Missing

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Look closely at the end-of-the-year lists of 2012's top news stories. What's missing? The 11-year-old war in Afghanistan and American-led counterterrorism efforts around the world. 
The Pew Research Center's weekly polling on the public's interest in news stories showed such a low level of interest that the overseas conflicts didn't make the organization's list of the year's top 15 stories.
Nor did the Afghan war come up often when The Associated Press conducted its annual poll of editors and news directors in the United States. The only overseas stories voted to be the year's top news stories involved Libya and Syria.
Yahoo's list of the top news stories of the year also omitted the war, and so did a separate list of the top international news stories. Those lists were created by analyzing millions of searches by Yahoo users.
The absence of words like "Afghanistan" from year-end lists reflects both the national news media's scant coverage of the war and the public's disengagement with it.
"We are in a period where the American public is intensely focused on domestic economic concerns," said Michael Dimock, the associate director for research at the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. "On top of this, the public is having a hard time staying focused on foreign engagements that have been ongoing for over a decade."
The exceptions to what he called this "war fatigue" are mass killings of Americans in the war zone, "which continue to draw public focus for short periods of time," he said.
No such occurrence registered on the radar this year. Thus, Pew found that spikes in public interest were higher around events like the Summer Olympics and President Obama's embrace of gay marriage than around anything to do with the war. There were no significant spikes in interest around the secret American campaign of drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia.
About 68,000 American troops remain in Afghanistan now that the troop surge ordered by the Obama administration in 2010 has ended. Combat troops are scheduled to leave the country by the end of 2014. For the time being the American presence is covered by a small band of reporters, predominantly in the country's capital, Kabul.
Erin Burnett of CNN was one of the few American television anchors to take her nightly show to Afghanistan in 2012. She anchored from Kabul on Dec. 13 and told viewers that "America's longest war is still not won." Her reporting was cut short; the next day, the elementary school massacre in Newtown, Conn., pre-empted all other programming on CNN.
The Associated Press poll of editors had already taken place; it was redone a few days later, and the massacre was ranked the top story of the year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Erin Burnett of CNN interviewed Army Sgt. First Class Josh Berndt in Afghanistan early this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (63%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (63%); COUNTERTERRORISM (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); OLYMPICS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1003 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Again, Supermarket Mogul Weighs Running for Mayor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
John A. Catsimatidis, the Greek-born billionaire owner of the Gristedes supermarket chain, settled into a shabby conference room at his 11th Avenue office the other day and happily explained, in his wheezy, genial way, why he could be the next mayor of New York City.
''Am I a Republican? Yes. Am I a Democrat? Yes. Am I a conservative? Yes. Am I a liberal? Yes,'' he said, his ringed fingers rapping the table. ''We're right in the middle. What are we? We're pro-people. But, we're also pro-business.'' 
Some ideological flexibility may be necessary when a wealthy businessman with zero political experience seeks the Republican nomination for mayor, particularly in a city that is overwhelmingly Democratic. The last one to pull it off, Michael R. Bloomberg, started out a Democrat, ran as a Republican, and ended up an independent.
But Mr. Catsimatidis, who pondered a run on the Republican Republican line in 2009 and has formed an exploratory committee for the 2013 race, might need to do more than play both sides of the aisle if he wants to end up in City Hall.
An ample-bodied, idiosyncratic man who styles himself as a ''common billionaire'' -- his company's headquarters sit above a Lexus dealership -- Mr. Catsimatidis is viewed with some skepticism by the city's civic leaders, some of whom consider his political aspirations a vanity project.
He is best known as the proprietor of a less-than-universally-loved grocery store. He can be candid to the point of carelessness, recently finding himself in hot water after comparing policies to tax the rich to Hitler's persecution of the Jews. And he lacks the C.E.O. demeanor and social radar that has guided other wealthy entrepreneurs, like Mr. Bloomberg, into elected office.
Still, Mr. Catsimatidis, despite dropping his bid the last time around, insists that he is now fully serious about a run. His vast fortune, estimated at $3 billion, would instantly make him the best-financed candidate in the race, and he has secured support from two of the city's five Republican county chairmen.
Even his size, he said, could be a plus.
''People tell me, you better lose weight if you want to run for mayor,'' Mr. Catsimatidis joked, with a nod toward his protruding belly. ''I said, I got the Chris Christie look.''
In an hourlong interview, Mr. Catsimatidis's humor and frankness were on full display. Asked about the city's economic doldrums, he argued that New York ''never really felt the recession.''
''I mean, we had a couple of hiccups here and there,'' he said, ''but we came out of it pretty well.''
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and thought to be a front-runner for the Democratic nomination, was deemed a ''nice lady.'' Joseph J. Lhota, a rival for the Republican nomination who has excited business leaders, is ''a nice guy,'' Mr. Catsimatidis said, but he added, ''I'm not sure he could win.''
His economic stimulus plan includes a revival of the 1964 World's Fair, whose iconic globe logo he once included on a custom-made necktie, an annual gift to family and friends. ''The construction business will do well, the hotel business will do well, the taxi business would do well,'' he said of the fair. ''Everybody's going to do well.''
And Mr. Catsimatidis struck an odd note when discussing education policy, expressing unease about the makeup of his daughter's graduating class from New York University's Stern School of Business.
''I think close to 480 of the 580 were Asian -- Asian including India,'' Mr. Catsimatidis said, of the graduates. ''And, it was scary. And then when you think about it, we're going to deport most of these kids.'' (He clarified that he was concerned about immigration policies that can result in the deportation of ''smart kids that we have just trained.'')
Polished or not, Mr. Catsimatidis has some experience in political circles. The hallways of his office building are covered, pizzeria-style, with glossy photographs of the owner shaking hands with dozens of noteworthy lawmakers, including Clintons, Cuomos and Bushes. His daughter, Andrea, recently married Christopher Cox, a grandson of Richard Nixon and the son of the state Republican party chairman.
A longtime donor to Bill Clinton, Mr. Catsimatidis this year threw his support behind Mitt Romney, flying friends to a primary night party in Michigan on his private plane, and attending events in Boston, Las Vegas, and Tampa, Fla.
''Mitt Romney said to me, 'When you and your wife show up, we win the primary,' '' he explained.
Whether he can make the move from donor to politician remains an open question. Bruce Gyory, a political analyst who follows city races, said that Mr. Catsimatidis's decision to wait until December to explore a mayoral run, and his equivocating on whether he will commit to a full-fledged campaign, were the hallmarks of a dilettante. The vast registration advantage enjoyed by Democrats over Republicans, Mr. Gyory added, also did not bode well for Mr. Catsimatidis.
''Victory is not mathematically impossible,'' Mr. Gyory said, ''but it is highly unlikely.''
In 2009, Mr. Catsimatidis spent nearly $300,000, mostly on polls and consultants, while exploring a candidacy. He said he only agreed to drop out after Mr. Bloomberg informed him of his plans to seek a third term.
In the interview, Mr. Catsimatidis said he would hold off on a final decision about the 2013 race until February.
''I don't play to go in there for glory, or just ego,'' he said. ''That's not me. If I could win, and make a difference, in this city, I'll do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John A. Catsimatidis, the billionaire owner of Gristedes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC STAMAS/WIREIMAGE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); MAYORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1004 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Seesawing Talks Yield No Accord On Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Robert Pear and John M. Broder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate leaders on Sunday failed to produce a fiscal deal with just hours to go before large tax increases and spending cuts were to begin taking effect on New Year's Day, despite a round of volatile negotiations over the weekend and an attempt by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to intervene.
In seesaw negotiations, the two sides got closer on the central issue of how to define the wealthy taxpayers who would be required to pay more once the Bush-era tax cuts expire.
But that progress was overshadowed by gamesmanship. After Republicans demanded that any deal must include a new way of calculating inflation that would mean smaller increases in payments to beneficiaries of programs like Social Security, Democrats halted the negotiations for much of the day. 
The Republican leader in the Senate, Mitch McConnell, made an emergency call to Mr. Biden in hopes of restarting negotiations, and the White House sent the president's chief legislative negotiator to the Capitol to meet with Senate Democrats. Soon after, Republicans withdrew their demand and discussions resumed, but little progress was made.
Lawmakers will be back on Monday. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said the Senate would return at 11 a.m. Monday and then left the Capitol just after 6 p.m.
''Talk to Joe Biden and McConnell,'' Mr. Reid told reporters when asked if negotiations were continuing.
In the balance are more than a half-trillion dollars in tax increases on virtually every working American and across-the-board spending cuts that are scheduled to begin Tuesday. Taken together, they threaten to push the economy back into recession.
''It looks awful,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat. ''I'm sure the American people are saying, with so much at stake why are they waiting so late to get this done?''
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who had said early Sunday that he thought a deal was within reach, said later on his Twitter feed, ''I think we're going over the cliff.''
Weeks of negotiations between President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner inched toward a deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, while locking in trillions of dollars in deficit reduction over 10 years and starting an effort to overhaul the tax code and entitlement programs like Medicare. But earlier this month, Mr. Boehner walked away from those talks.
Instead he tried to reach a much more modest deal to avoid a fiscal crisis by extending the expiring tax cuts for incomes under $1 million. When Mr. Boehner's own Republican members revolted, he ceded negotiations to the Senate. But compromise has proved equally elusive in that chamber.
Absent a last-minute deal, Mr. Reid is expected to move on Monday to bring to a vote a stopgap measure pushed by Mr. Obama, which would retain lower tax rates for incomes below $250,000 and extend unemployment benefits. But it was not clear that would even get a vote. The objection of a single senator on Monday would run out the clock on the 112th Congress before a final tally could be taken.
Mr. Obama appeared on the NBC program ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday and implored Congress to act. ''We have been talking to the Republicans ever since the election was over,'' Mr. Obama said in the interview. ''They have had trouble saying yes to a number of repeated offers.''
He added, ''Now the pressure's on Congress to produce.''
After the talks broke down over the inflation demand, Senate Republicans emerged from a closed-door meeting on Sunday afternoon to declare the issue off the table for now. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said that holding the line against raising taxes on high-income households while fighting for cuts to Social Security was ''not a winning hand.''
Then they mustered a new talking point, saying Democrats want to raise taxes only to spend more money. Their new objection: Democrats are seeking a one- to two-year ''pause'' for across-the-board spending cuts and an extension of expired unemployment benefits for two million people.
''We raise taxes, and we spend more?'' asked Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas. ''It's business as usual.''
For their part, Democrats beat back the inflation proposal, and then promptly proclaimed themselves incensed that Republicans would not soften their position on a generous level of taxation on inherited estates and an insistence that a final deal permanently prevent the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system meant to ensure that wealthy people pay more, from expanding to affect more of the middle class.
Democrats were also demanding that across-the-board cuts to military and domestic programs -- known as the ''sequester'' -- at least be delayed.
''We're not here to defend government, we're here to make sure of the defense of our country,'' said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, whose state would be hit particularly hard. ''Sequester has consequences.''
Senate Democratic aides were openly making legislative plans for later this week, to press Democratic proposals after the fiscal deadline is breached -- and after the next Congress is sworn in on Thursday with more Democrats in both the House and the Senate.
But officials close to the negotiations said the talks were continuing, centered for now on a new axis, Mr. McConnell and Mr. Biden.
Much of the umbrage was oddly discordant. Mr. Obama has long advocated for a permanent fix to the alternative minimum tax, which must be ''patched'' each year to keep it from applying to middle-income families. Until this weekend, both Democrats and Republicans appeared willing to let the across-the-board cuts take effect, at least temporarily, while a larger deficit deal is negotiated early next year.
Indeed, many Republicans were the loudest in protesting the cuts. Now that Democrats want them canceled, Republicans equate that position to raising taxes in order to spend more.
On some of the biggest sticking points, the two sides are now inches apart. Barely a week after House Republicans refused to vote to allow taxes to rise on incomes over $1 million, Senate Republicans proposed allowing tax rates to rise on incomes over $450,000 for individuals and $550,000 for couples. Democrats countered with a proposal to extend expiring Bush-era tax cuts up to $360,000 for individuals and $450,000 for couples. For both sides, that meant major movement. Mr. Obama has been holding firm at a $250,000 threshold.
Of course, a big question hung over the negotiations in the Senate: even if the Senate can find an accord, would it pass the House?
Even on the estate tax, the two sides are not far apart, although their language is. Republicans want to tax estates valued above $5 million at 35 percent. Democrats want to tax inheritances above $3.5 million at 45 percent.
If that sounds like a bridgeable divide, Democrats are not conceding an inch. ''The net result is that 6,000 Americans would get a $1-million-a-year tax break on their estate tax,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''The Republicans once again are ready to shut us down over not 2 percent of the population, but 0.1 percent of the population.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell, left, the Republican leader, with aides on Sunday. He called the vice president to ask for his help. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, may seek a vote on a stopgap measure on tax cuts backed by President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX REFORM (71%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); JOE BIDEN (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1005 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead to Civil and Criminal Cases to Come

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: If recent cases serve as a guide, too many loopholes in the system allow white-collar fraud to go undetected. 

 BODY:
It is not really of question of whether there will be a major white-collar crime that captures the public's attention in 2013; it's a question of when and how costly it will be. 
If the cases of 2012 can serve as a guide, too many loopholes in the system allow fraud to go undetected.
Take for instance the onetime futures trading firm PFGBest, whose founder confessed to having committed fraud for years at the company, which has about $200 million missing from its accounts. Though futures regulators have spent months wringing their hands on how such a fraud could have gone on for so long, the fact remains that some financiers may keep one step ahead of law enforcement when it comes to white-collar crimes.
Federal prosecutors, however, are likely to remain strongly focused on the insider trading cases. The United States attorney's office in Manhattan has already racked up an impressive record of winning convictions in every insider trading case that went to trial. They are even winning cases the old-fashioned way by relying primarily on the testimony of cooperating witnesses. 
The one black eye that remains for the government is the lack of signature prosecutions emerging from the near collapse of the financial system in 2008. Although the Justice Department and the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, have filed civil cases seeking billions in recovery for the sale of questionable securities tied to toxic subprime mortgages, the cases are likely to take years to play out.
Looking ahead to 2013, several major investigations remain open and are likely to bring significant criminal or civil penalties:

Still More to Come on Libor 
The investigation of manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, had been moving quietly along until the British bank Barclays announced a $450 million settlement in June 2012. The subsequent firestorm in Parliament over the bank's conduct led to the resignation of its chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., and a push to shift control of the interest rate mechanism into more trustworthy hands.
In hindsight, Barclays got off easily as the first bank to reach a settlement, although it probably did not feel like it in the days after the announcement. UBS has become the new focus of attention for Libor manipulation; it recently paid a $1.5 billion settlement, and its Japanese subsidiary pleaded guilty to fraud.
Other banks caught up in the investigation have to be dreading whether the UBS settlement is the new benchmark. If so, then a billion dollars may be the starting point for any negotiations with the Justice Department and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which have been leading the investigation in this country. Add to that any penalties assessed by foreign regulators, and the cost of resolving the investigation will be a significant hit to the bottom line of some global banks.
More ominous is the possibility that the Justice Department will demand guilty pleas from banks. That requires an acknowledgement of wrongdoing, which could prove to be useful in the numerous civil lawsuits that have been filed against the banks, meaning more money could be paid out to resolve those cases.
 Tackling Bribery and Corruption 
As The New York Times has detailed, Wal-Mart is dealing with significant corruption issues in its Mexican subsidiary. The company also acknowledged that it was reviewing its global operations, and had already spent nearly $100 million on its internal investigation.
Though the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was enacted in 1977, only in the past few years have the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission started to extract significant penalties, often in sectors that had not previously been involved in overseas bribery cases.
For example, among the settlements in 2012 included four companies in the medical field, which all paid significant penalties: Smith & Nephew, $22 million; Biomet, $22.8 million; Pfizer, $60 million; and Eli Lilly, $29 million. 
As more companies get caught up in these investigations, it will be interesting to see whether the courts punish repeat offenders more harshly. For instance, I.B.M. reached settlements with the S.E.C. in 2000 and again in 2011 over violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A federal district judge in Washington is demanding greater accountability from the company before he will approve the proposed resolution of the case.
 Insider Trading in the Cross Hairs
Although insider trading cases have become a staple of federal action in the last three years, the new attention has been on Steven A. Cohen and his hedge fund firm, SAC Capital. 
Prosecutors have charged a number of defendants with ties to SAC, and came close to Mr. Cohen in the insider trading indictment of the portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Although Mr. Cohen is not named in the charges, prosecutors went out of their way to describe the "Hedge Fund Owner" as someone involved in the trading at issue, a sure sign the government is focusing on him.
Mr. Martoma's lawyer said his client was innocent, which probably means that he will not cooperate with the government if it pursues a case against Mr. Cohen. Without that path to build a case, an interesting question is whether the S.E.C. will use its authority to hold SAC responsible as a "controlling person" for insider trading by its employees, which could result in a triple penalty being imposed. The firm received a so-called Wells notice stating that the agency is considering civil charges. 
If the S.E.C. files such a case, this would be a new front in the fight over insider trading that shifts attention to the hedge funds and investment firms that employ the people who capitalized on confidential information. That could potentially expose firms to enormous liability even if their managers were not specifically aware of any legal violations.
 Rogue Traders 
Every year seems to bring news of a major trading loss as a result of a breakdown in the internal controls at a major financial institution. In 2011, UBS revealed that actions by Kweku Adoboli, a trader in London, cost the bank about $2.3 billion. In 2012, JPMorgan Chase said that a hedging strategy by traders in London had cost the bank at least $6 billion in losses.
On a smaller scale, the boutique brokerage firm Rochdale Securities suffered a $5 million loss whena trader bought about $1 billion in Apple shares, far beyond what he was permitted to do.
Although many of the outsize losses hurt banks' shareholders rather than the general public, such actions have drawn public calls for accountability.
Prosecutors in London successfully obtained a conviction against Mr. Adoboli this year, and UBS was fined $47.5 million over failing to prevent the actions.
More cases like these are likely to play out. As DealBook reported in October, investigators are looking into the actions of four people who previously worked for JPMorgan in London.
The nature of the markets may allow for more such blowups. Lightning-fast electronic trading allows huge positions to be built up in minutes, heightening the risk of sizable losses if anything goes awry.
And even when there is no sign of intentional wrongdoing, a small error can easily affect global markets. A software glitch at Knight Capital ended up costing the firm about $460 million, while memories of the 2010 "flash crash" are still fresh.
As the new year comes, white-collar cases will continue to serve up new object lessons of the perils and the pitfalls of the financial system. Some will come as a result of creative maneuverings by financiers, and some may call into question whether regulators are effectively overseeing the markets.

        
Come Blow Your Horn for the S.E.C.
        
Former SAC Trader Is Indicted

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); WITNESSES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); TESTIMONY (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); TOXIC ASSETS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%) Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (1977); Insider Trading; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Justice Department; SAC Capital Advisors; Securities and Exchange Commission; UBS AG; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: PEREGRINE FINANCIAL GROUP INC (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; Justice Department; SAC Capital Advisors; Securities and Exchange Commission; UBS AG

TICKER: JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (57%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013



1006 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Ford Fusion Energi MPGe Hits Triple Digits, E.P.A. Says

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: The E.P.A. says the Fusion Energi can get the equivalent of 108 miles per gallon in city driving. 

 BODY:
The 2013 Ford Fusion Energi plug-in hybrid has received an E.P.A. certification of being able to achieve the equivalent of 108 miles per gallon in city driving, the automaker has announced. 
The Fusion Energi was also certified at up to 92 "MPGe" - under the Environmental Protection Agency's electricity vs. gas equivalency formula - in highway driving, for a combined 100 MPGe, Ford said.
The Fusion Energi's triple-digit fuel economy certification comes at a welcome moment for the automaker, whose ratings on two of its hybrids introduced this year were called into question recently by Consumer Reports magazine. In tests conducted by the magazine's editors, the C-Max and Fusion hybrids returned up to 20 percent worse fuel economy than the 47 m.p.g. Ford had claimed for both vehicles in its E.P.A. certification tests. 
The E.P.A. announced it would review the discrepancy.
At least one lawsuit, a class action on behalf of a disgruntled C-Max owner in California, has been filed.
"In its advertising and marketing campaign for the vehicles, Ford claimed that the C-Max Hybrid and Fusion Hybrid achieved a class leading 47 miles per gallon," a lawsuit filed by the California-based law firm McCuneWright reads in part. "These materials helped Ford achieve record sales for the first two months of C-Max Hybrid sales, outselling its rival, hybrid sales leader Toyota, but there was a problem. These ads were false."
Ford also calculated that in five years of normal driving, compared with a gasoline-powered car, the Fusion Energi "could potentially help save customers an estimated $6,850 in fuel costs."
The company said its hybrids sales were on a "record pace," with more than 19,000 units expected to be sold during the year.
"In fact, C-MAX became the fastest-selling hybrid ever at launch after 8,030 units were sold in October and November, the first two months C-MAX was on the market," the company said in a press release.

        
Consumer Reports Questions Ford's Fuel Economy Ratings
        
Consumer Reports Poll Shows Support for Stronger Fuel-Economy Standards
        
The Fisker Karma's 20 M.P.G. Sticker: A Scarlet Letter?
        
Hybrids and Electric Vehicles Do Well in Reliability Survey
        
Wheelies: The Empowered Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); SALES FIGURES (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%) C-Max; Consumer Reports; E.P.A.; Environmental Protection Agency; Ford Fusion Energi; plug-in hybrid; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Ford Motor Co; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1007 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Sharers, Takers, Carers, Makers

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: By emphasizing only the role of taking and making in an economic systems, politicians and commentators gloss over the essential roles of sharing and caring, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
Some of the most vivid political rhetoric of 2012 reflects a debate that has lasted centuries. Who are the makers and who are the takers? Much economic theory revolves around efforts to distinguish the two. The conceptual effort is motivated by noble intent: presumably, a good economic system encourages making (creating more to go around) and discourages taking (redistributing what others have made).
Yet it is surprisingly hard to create a consensus about these labels, and past disagreements, still unresolved, lurk in the background. History is shaped by contending claims over who is more productive than whom. Powerful groups like to describe themselves as makers rather than takers, partly to glorify themselves and partly to discourage take-backs. 
Some ambiguity derives from our basic relationship to nature. Humans started out as takers, not makers, hunting and foraging for food. Even in the harvesting of crops, back-breaking labor counts for little compared with the gifts of soil, sunshine and rain. Modern economic systems still largely rely on fossil fuels, gifts from the past. 
Because we don't have to bargain or trade directly with nature, we don't consider it a participant in our economic system. Rather, we compete with other humans for access to nature's bounty. In the competition for territory, resources and political power, taking has proved as indispensable to economic success - if not more so - than making.

Think of feudal lords, who believed they earned the right to demand obeisance from their serfs because they offered protection from the depredations of other lords. A protection racket, in many respects, but as Jared Diamond persuasively asserts in "Guns, Germs and Steel," Europe's military prowess, honed by internecine wars, enabled an imperial expansion that worked to its economic advantage. 
When John Locke laid the conceptual foundations of liberal democracy in the 17th century, he contended that a system that guaranteed men rights over the product of their own labor (including wild apples picked from a tree) would always prevail over a system based on arbitrary authority, like feudal dues or taxation without representation. 
He excluded women from his theory, assuming that childbearing and family care were not forms of labor, but like apples, gifts of nature (until picked by men). Classical political economy, from Adam Smith to Karl Marx, presumed that women's domestic labor was "unproductive" even if it was performed by paid servants. 
Over the course of the 19th century, wives and mothers who worked long hours in the home rather than earning wages came to be described as "dependents" who were "supported" by their husbands, a description that early feminists fiercely challenged. 
In debates over welfare reform in the 1990s, most Republicans and Democrats alike dismissed the idea that a "work requirement" could be met by anything but paid employment. Last April, however, conservatives rallied to the point of view that stay-at-home mothers are makers, rather than takers, challenging a Democratic strategist's accusation that Ann Romney "never worked a day in her life." 
That particular argument was superseded by Mitt Romney's assertion that members of families who paid no federal income taxes were all takers rather than makers. In the wake of the presidential election, he went on to suggest that President Obama was a winner only because he was a "giver," redistributing income away from the makers to the takers. 
Conservatives tend to describe government employees as unproductive, a legacy of the late 19th century Austrian school of economics, popularized by the writer Ayn Rand. Even those who emphasize the blurry line between making and taking, like the economist Tyler Cowen, seem convinced that "taking" is to the public sector as "making" is to the private sector. 
But as the term "taking profits" implies, some private-sector income is based on speculation, rather than actual production. In the long run, standard economic theory predicts that profits, above and beyond returns to skill, entrepreneurship and the costs of capital, should attract new entrants into an industry, pushing profits toward zero in competitive markets. 
Instead, the share of profits relative to wages has been increasing in both the United States and other affluent countries, not because workers are becoming less productive, but because technological change, deregulation and globalization have made it easier for owners to keep wages low. Increases in monopoly power may also help explain the rising profit share. 
In sum, being a taker is not a sign of economic failure, and being a maker is no guarantee of economic success. Taking is not confined to the public sector, and making is not confined to the market economy. 
Our own life cycles show us that taking and making often alternate in rhythm. We all start out dependent on the care of others, and many of us end that way as well. In between we hope to make a living not just for ourselves, but for others: those who made our past and those who will make our future.
A good economic system rests on sharing and caring as much as, if not more than, taking and making. Ever wonder why the first part usually gets left out of the story? 

        
The End of Men, Revisited
        
Valuing Family Work
        
Homemaker Dad, Breadwinner Mom
        
Paycheck Fairness and Market Failure
        
Incentive Perversity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); WOMEN (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WORKING MOTHERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); APPLE ORCHARDS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); EXTORTION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Ann Romney; Ayn Rand; Daily Economist; distribution of wealth; Income Inequality; income redistribution; Karl Marx; Mitt Romney; Nancy Folbre; women in the workforce; working class; Capitalism (Theory and Philosophy); Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Labor and Jobs; Women and Girls; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); ADAM SMITH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1008 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With: DataWind's Suneet Singh Tuli

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Aakash is a "politically-charged project people take glee in demeaning." 

 BODY:
 Suneet Singh Tuli, the chief executive of DataWind, the company behind the $40 Aakash tablet, spoke to The New York Times in New York on Nov. 29, a day after the world's cheapest computer was unveiled by Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, at the United Nations headquarters. 
 The project, spearheaded by the Indian government, has encountered some setbacks. Mr. Tuli's company will miss its first deadline of Dec. 31 to deliver an order of 100,000 tablets, meant for college and graduate school students, to the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, the engineering institution in charge of the Aakash project. Datawind has delivered only about 14,000 tablets so far, and it recently received an extension until March 31 to supply the remaining tablets. 
 The 44-year-old Mr. Tuli, who pledged to make the tablet in India, talked about the difficulties in keeping up with the scale of the project and how his company can beat the prices of Chinese manufacturers in the tablet market. He also addressed recent news that Datawind shipped a batch of 10,000 tablets from China. 
 Here is an edited transcript of the conversation: 
 Q. 
You had to ship 100,000 tablets to the government of India by Dec. 31. Are you on track to meet that deadline?
 A. 
No. Look, the project is not going to die if all 100,000 will not be there by the end of December. If we miss it by some quantity, they [the government] will decide how much they want. Their next stage in this project is five million units. Their target is to do 220 million units over five or six years to make sure every student in that country has a computing Internet device.
They are going to put out tenders, similar to what they did here. They put out a 100,000-unit tender, we won that tender and we are supplying that product.
There is version one and version two, and lots of muck in between. But they have held steadfast to the belief that they want a low-cost device and that they will bring their financial muscle to the table to procure and get pricing down to the level they want.
 Q. 
You got a warning note from the I.I.T. Bombay about the Dec. 31 delivery deadline. What are you doing about it?
 A. 
We are doing the best we can.
 Q. 
What do you think realistically is the number you can deliver to them?
 A. 
I will have to see. This is not a sort of cliff that the project stops. Yes, they want it done as fast as possible. The ramifications of it should not be blown out of proportion. It is an artificial number, not relevant to the contract or terms of agreement or anything else. They wanted the 20,000 by the time they did the launch. Unfortunately, we were able to deliver only 12 or 13 [thousand].
One can jump up and down and get upset and say, "Oh, my God, they had to do 20 and they did only 13. These got kitted in China, oh, my God."
It doesn't impact the reality on the ground. We are proud that these concepts started in India and they are going to use it to educate their kids. And we are adding as much Indian value-add as we reasonably can.
Except we are the only one in that whole realm who is pushing for a made-in-India product. It is not a government requirement that it be a made-in-India product. Instead, it's something we have requested the government to specify in future tenders. They should specify an Indian value-add--at least 25 percent is made in India, or at least 30 percent. That wasn't part of the specs and still is not.
The government's response to the recent three days' worth of brouhaha is: We placed an order on a vendor to supply a product -- beyond that we don't care.
 Q. 
How are you able to make the product so cheaply?
 A. 
When you look at our bill of materials, we work at very low margins. No one else is in the industry is doing that. We have openly said what our business model is, focus on the recurring revenue stream: content, apps and so on. We are after a price-sensitive consumer, and to get to that we forgo most of our hardware margins.
It takes the Chinese supplier $42.85 to make it. I am telling you that I have a 5 percent margin and I make it for under $38, including the transportation, a 12-month warranty and the rest of it.
 Q. 
How is this possible?
 A. 
The only money left in this for us is the LCD and touchscreen. We make the touchscreen in Canada, and the LCD is packaged for us in South Korea. That's the margins we squeeze.
We tweak the reference design that is used in the industry for power management that's better for us-- we can use this chip that's cheaper and that chip that's cheaper and it meets our requirement, and we save a $1 or $1.50 in that area.
We make the touchscreen for $2. The Chinese also make it for $2 and sell it for $10.
Instead of us bringing 800 parts from 60 vendors, and doing the boards [motherboards] in India -- which is what we did for the Aakash-1 and the Aakash-1.5 -- for the sake of expediency for Aakash-2, getting those through logistics in India takes a lot of efforts. In China, they do the boards for 30-cent margins. I reduced the whole thing down to 12 parts and I kit it.
I told them, "I don't want you to assemble these." I told them, "Some of these are going to the Indian government. For those, I want you to put them in a kit form in a box and I am going to bring it in that manner and process it. Later on, I will do more of it." Contractually, legally, morally, it has no implication.
I am setting up a fab [fabrication unit] for making touch panels in Amritsar, India's first fab. Except for the fact that I am the one who has been wrapping myself around the Indian flag and saying this should be done, no one is asking for it. The government is not asking for it; the consumer is not saying, "I will only buy a made-in-India product."
 Q. 
You talked up about setting up a fabrication unit -- that's a large investment. What is the cost?
 A. 
Huge! Under 10 million [dollars]. It will make touchscreens. What we do with LCDs -- we have guys in South Korea to package it for us. They come in and do what they need to do and it goes in. We save $3 here. We maintain ourselves a 5 percent margin.
 Q. 
How are you able to finance this? There must be a lot of upfront cost.
 A. 
There are two aspects to it, the consumer side of it and the government side of it. When we did this originally, the government was trying to get a sub-$50 product. They put out two sets of tenders, then canceled those, but couldn't get a sub-$50 product. After setting standards for eligibility criteria that would only get the multinationals in, they said the multinationals are not willing to bid. So, they said, "Why don't we go out and put a tender where we reduce the criteria and say the company only had to be $5 million in revenue."
All these little companies like us said this is an opportunity for us. We bid; we were significantly lower than the next guy.
On the government side, they give a letter of credit that gets transferred to factories and so on -- that's how it gets funded.
When the publicity started, we put out a form for selling the commercial product online. In April-end, when we launched commercially, we had three million pre-bookings. Now we are at little over four million units. We said we'll deliver against whenever the product is ready. We are getting 600 to 1,000 pre-bookings every day. We deliver 2,500 to 3,000 a day, and we are still trying to catch up.
In the middle of that, we thought, if there are consumers that want to pay and are willing to pay, let's do that. Some started paying. Unfortunately, the scale of everything here has been beyond our imagination. In India, setting up an e-commerce facility takes time, so we thought we would have people sending us checks. Big mistake!
The post office calls us up three, four days later. They said, "You have four boxes of checks." Then we stopped it. We prioritize orders as they come in. We deal with our pre-bookings. We deliver them.
Some get extra upset that they weren't delivering on time. We offer refunds for those who don't want to wait. They will get a world-class product, I think, at a fraction of the price they would get otherwise.
 Q. 
What is your manufacturing experience like? Most of your team hasn't had experience making tablets. Does that make it kind of challenging?
 A. 
What's given you the impression that our team doesn't have experience? Let me explain our team: my brother alone has 78 patents. In the last 22 years, we have launched over 20 new electronic products. We were making the equivalent of a tablet with a 5-inch screen in 2002. For 10 years, we've been making devices in and around the tablet. We have made a series of netbooks and so on. Look up the product called PocketSurfer and see how far that goes.
Android tablets we may have been doing for only 18 months. We have experience making it. I challenge you to find somebody outside Samsung and LG, the large companies, in the same ballpark with the same depth of expertise that we do. Find me a guy who has a touchscreen facility and is making tablets on their own. The only one who is doing it is Samsung. None of my competitors in India do, Amazon doesn't, Apple doesn't.
 Q. 
What do you think India needs to do to improve its manufacturing of electronics?
 A. 
Reduce bureaucracy. Get some pride in what they do. India is a country where garment stores have a sign that says "export quality"--in every other country in the world that would be insulting. If foreigners need to buy it, it has to be good quality. Export quality is a sales pitch in India. For them to make it in India, there should be an incentive for them to make it in India. If nothing else, local pride that it's made in India.
 Q. 
What have been the biggest hurdles with shipping the tablets to the government? What would you have done differently in retrospect?
 A. 
It is a politically charged project that people take glee in demeaning. I don't know in the last 18 months what I could have done differently. The first contract stalled when I delivered 7,000 units and they said it couldn't sustain four inches of rain. Until today I haven't gotten paid.
I am creating a product at a lower price than anyone else in the world with the hope that it impacts people's lives and I make money out of it. I am not a charity. Nobody else in world is able to do it. I am getting crucified because they got kitted there [in China]. You know what--the brouhaha will be over in 48 hours and we will keep delivering the product.
 Q. 
At such low costs and low margins, are you running into any quality issues?
 A. 
Forty-dollar devices are not going to have Apple quality in there. The Apple customer insists on a certain level of quality. To us, cost matters most than the balance.

        
From Montreal, DataWind Says Aakash Not Main Focus
        
India's 'Aakash,' Now Made in China
        
A Conversation With: India's Chief Climate Change Negotiator
        
India and China Deepen Economic Ties
        
China and India Top List of International Students Attending U.S. Colleges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); TRANSCRIPTS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%) China; DataWind Ltd; Factories and Manufacturing; India; Tablet Computers; Tuli, Suneet Singh

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) DataWind Ltd

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (57%) Tuli, Suneet Singh

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) China; India

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1009 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: In Images: A History of Premier Automobiles

BYLINE: DAVID SHAFTEL


HIGHLIGHT: As the Padmini taxi rolls into the sunset, a look back at its Mumbai manufacturer. 

 BODY:
The black and yellow Padmini taxi is as identifiable with Mumbai as the Volkswagen Beetle taxi in Mexico City or the once ubiquitous Checker cab in New York. Alternately loathed and romanticized, the Padmini - or some version of it - was produced in Mumbai from 1964 to 2000 by Premier Automobiles. It became a favorite of taxi drivers in the 1970s because it was cheaper, easier to drive and more maneuverable than the tank-like Hindustan Ambassador, its main competition in Bombay, as the city was known then. For the individual motorist, it was attainable and passed for sporty in a tightly controlled automotive industry.
In 2008, the Maharashtra state government announced that taxis older than 25 years old were to be phased out, signaling the start of the Padmini's demise. At its peak in the 1990s, there were some 58,000 Padmini taxis plying the streets of Mumbai; today there are only around 9,000. The cabbies who drive them say they are cheap and easy to maintain and that they could stay on the roads forever. Most customers, however, prefer to ride in the newer, more modern cabs. But while the rickety and cramped Padmini will not likely be mourned by commuters, private collectors are becoming increasingly interested in them. 
In the 1940s, Bombay-based Premier Automobiles Ltd (PAL) made Dodge cars and trucks as part of a deal with the American automaker Chrysler. After Independence, large American cars were seen by the socialist-leaning government as decadent, according to Maitreya Doshi, Premier's current managing director. So in 1952, PAL entered a joint venture to produce the more modest Fiat cars, like the 500 model, pictured in this image from a PAL annual report.
The Fiat 1100D produced by Premier was essentially the same car as the Italian version that launched in 1962. Few changes were made to the design of the Indian version that still patrols the streets of Mumbai.
In 1972 the car was indigenized and the joint venture with Fiat was not renewed. For the 1973 model year it became the Premier President. In the 1970s Premier exported cars to Mauritius, as pictured here in this photo from a PAL annual report. Premier also exported cars to Dubai in the 1980s. ''There were also stray exports to Latin America, Indonesia, Africa and Nepal in the 60s and 70s,'' said Maitreya Doshi, Premier's managing director.
In 1974, when an officious bureaucrat objected to the name ''President,'' the car became the ''Padmini,'' named after a 14th century Rajput princess. Many Mumbai residents still call it a ''Fiat.'' The one pictured here is a Deluxe B-E model from the late 1980s, which featured chrome bumpers and hubcaps.
The Padmini's main competition was the Hindustan Ambassador, a large, bulbous car that still signifies power and officialdom. The Padmini was marketed as more aspirational, reflected in the slogans used to advertise it.
Before economic liberalization in 1991, the automotive industry was tightly regulated, so Premier wasn't allowed to implement too many improvements to the Padmini. Instead, it trumpeted the ones that it could make, such as the "stylish polyurethane steering wheel" and "ignition-cum-steering lock."
As the automotive industry evolved slowly in the 1980s and then quickly in the 1990s, the Padmini remained a constant until production ceased in 2000.
In 1985, Premier launched the 118NE, as part of a joint venture with Peugeot. It was modeled on a Fiat 124. Production was stopped in 1999 after Peugeot abandoned the joint venture, says Premier Managing Director Maitreya Doshi. The Fiat 124 was also the model for the Russian Lada.
Premier re-entered the car market with the launch of the Rio, a compact SUV, in 2012.
 David Shaftel is a freelance journalist based in Mumbai. 

        
Ratan Tata, the Man Who Brought Tata to the World
        
Image of the Day: Dec. 21
        
What Man Santa: Holiday Cheer From Mumbai's Bandra
        
Indians Outraged Over Rape on Moving Bus in New Delhi
        
Are Delhi's Buses Safe For Women?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%) Advertising and Marketing; automobiles; Dodge Division of Chrysler Corp; Fiat SpA; Mumbai (India); Peugeot SA; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Automobiles; Fiat SpA|FIATY|other-OTC; Peugeot SA|PEUGY|other-OTC

COMPANY: PREMIER AUTOMOBILES LTD (85%); FIAT SPA (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Dodge Division of Chrysler Corp; Fiat SpA; Peugeot SA

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (84%); F (BIT) (84%) Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC; Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC; Peugeot SA; PEUGY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (79%); WEST INDIA (79%) INDIA (94%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (52%) Mumbai (India)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1010 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Sunlight to Africa, and Western Investors

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: 1.4 billion people live without access to electricity.. Another 1.3 billion make do without access to reliable electricity. A solar start-up, the brainchild of two Stanford students, aims to use Western investors' money to change that. 

 BODY:
Solar power use in the United States is booming, as we reported a few weeks ago.
In parts of the world where access to any kind of electricity - let alone the green kind - is scarce, however, the news is not as bright, at least not yet.
Many people in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia still rely on kerosene lamps, torches or candles to see at night, solutions that are polluting, expensive, noxious and, crucially, rarely emit good quality light. 
That's where two business students at Stanford University taking a course on extreme affordability saw a sustainable business opportunity.
"It is actually possible to make an economically viable alternative to kerosene," said Ned Tozun, a co-founder of d.light, a company that is bringing rechargeable solar lamps to market in developing countries.
The company has been operational for five years, and in recent months has been producing 200,000 to 300,000 lamps each month, with roughly 98 percent of those going to developing countries, according to Mr. Tozun, who is also the company's president.
Like the CleanStar Mozambique, the project that is bringing clean-burning biofuel stoves to the kitchens of Maputo, the story of d.light highlights growing investor interest in the junction between development work, renewable energy and profit-driven business.
"What we sold those guys is that fundamentally it is a huge market," said Mr. Tozun about winning over the first investors for his venture - most, but not all of whom, were social impact funds. (Earlier this month, our colleague Stephanie Strom at DealBook mentioned d.light as a for-profit company that nonprofit funds invest in.)
The company designs, produces and sells rugged lanterns that can be charged under the sun during the day, then produce a steady, bright light when the sun is down.
Based on the newest battery technology and energy efficient LED bulbs, the lamps are designed and built to withstand years of everyday use (a claim that the company plans to back in 2013 with a two-year guarantee on their products). These lanterns can be sold inexpensively enough - in the long-term - to be cheaper than the coal, kerosene or candles that they replace, Mr. Tozun said in a telephone interview from California.
"If you can put it into the market, it's very scalable and much more sustainable," Mr. Tozun said.
The market was ready for the rechargeable solar lantern, said Mr. Tozun, who estimates that renewable energy lighting technology makes up only about 2 percent of the market today.
The company did not make production costs available. However, since the pilot stages of the program, the lamps have always been priced to reflect the eventual large-scale production, Mr. Tozun said.
Depending on the location, the cheapest lantern sells for as little as $7, while more advanced models, like those that also have a cellphone charging port, can cost up to $30.
"Our customers are very risk-averse," said Mr. Tozun, who said the price of the lamp often represented the cost of several months of kerosene or coal.
The company works with local distributors to convince customers that the investment in the solar lantern is worth it in the long run.
Today, 1.4 billion people live without any access to electricity, according to the World Bank. An additional 1.3 billion make do without access to reliable electricity, meaning that a third of the world's population cannot rely on artificial light.
According to the World Bank studies, it would take $35-$40 billion of new money each year until 2030 to get universal access to electricity.
Unlike some other forms of renewable energy, solar power can easily be harvested off-grid, making it much more readily adaptable for areas with no distribution infrastructure. Since the chargers, the lanterns and the batteries are all one unit, end users invest just once, with no need for upkeep or supplies for several years, according to the company.
The bright, steady lights have many benefits, from more active family households to improved safety. 
Last month the company celebrated "10 million lives improved" by its solar lamps, a milestone based on its calculation of several members of a household benefiting from one lamp.The company says that the lanterns have had an impact on more than 2.5 million school-age children who can now study at home at night.
"It's not just marketing-speak; they really transform peoples' lives," Mr. Tozun said.
 What do you think? Do for-profit companies have a role in development work? Are they the most efficient way to get renewable energy to those who need it? 

        
Will Europe Ever Get Its Supergrid?
        
Amid Global Trade Fight, a Bright Year for Solar Use in the U.S.
        
Sustainable Innovation: The Ethanol Stove
        
Championing Solar Power, on Land and Sea
        
Underway in Barcelona: the Global Clean Energy Forum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (70%); BIOFUELS (66%) d.light; Development Aid; for-profit development; green energy; kerosene; light; primary education; solar power; Lamps and Lampshades; Solar Energy; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) MOZAMBIQUE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (91%); AFRICA (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013



1011 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: America in 2012, as Told in Charts

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: Nine charts tell the story of the United States in 2012. 

 BODY:
 The weak economy, widening income inequality, gridlock in Congress and a presidential election: Those were perhaps the dominant economic and political themes of 2012. To supplement the torrent of rhetoric, I offer charts to help provide facts and context for the debate around these important issues. Below are nine of my favorites from the past year. 
In 2012, the slow recovery dominated both the economic news and the worries of most Americans, but the underlying components of the weak job market were not always fully dissected. In fact, job growth was so paltry in large part because it was so unbalanced. Since the recession ended in June 2009, three key sectors - government, construction and information - that together account for 22 percent of all employment lost more than 1 million jobs. Equally significantly, two of them, government and construction, generally add a disproportionately large share of jobs during a recovery. With government contracting and construction stalled, that did not occur.
 
The economic boom that peaked in 2007 represented the first time that median real (that is, inflation-adjusted) incomes did not recover to their previous peak before declining into the next recession. More ominously, family incomes have yet to recover, even though the recession ended three and a half years ago. That has brought the total decline in real incomes to nearly 9 percent since 2000. So where has the economic growth from the recovery gone? Much of it has gone to corporate profits, as companies took advantage of the high unemployment rate and the ability to shift production globally to hold down wages in the United States.
The rise in income inequality has exacerbated the decline in median incomes. In 2010, a stunning 93 percent of all income gains went to the top 1 percent of Americans. Also astonishing: just 15,000 households received 37 percent of all of those income gains. In no other period in recent American history have economic gains been concentrated so disproportionately in an elite sliver. (The red bars indicate recessions.)
The explosion of the federal budget deficit since the turn of the century stems from multiple causes, including huge tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 and rapid spending growth in many areas like defense, and later, the stimulus to combat the recession. But no budget-busting factor looms larger than the soaring cost of government-financed health care, particularly Medicare and Medicaid. In addition to driving current and projected deficits, the rise in spending has squeezed the resources available for other domestic programs. Often dismissed as wasteful government spending, these "discretionary" programs include important areas of investment, such as infrastructure, research and development and education. In reducing such investments, we are eating our seed corn.
Large deficits have driven a key ratio - government debt to gross domestic product - to 72.8 percent, from 36.2 percent in 2007. But without new policies, that's just the beginning. Under realistic assumptions, the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio will rise to more than 80 percent over the next decade. The recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles Commission, if adopted by President Obama and Congress, would have brought this ratio down to 65 percent by 2022. But that plan never was adopted. Even if one of the proposals being debated by the White House and Congressional Republicans, very similar in the impact on the deficit, were put in place, it would only manage to drive down this ratio to 72 percent and stabilize it there - a minimally acceptable goal.
The debate over budget-cutting has touched off fierce emotions on all sides, sometimes at the expense of facts. Take, for example, the proposal to change the cost-of-living adjustment used to calculate Social Security benefits. Rarely discussed in that context is the fact that the current adjustment formula has delivered benefit increases to Social Security recipients that are larger than the wage increases of average Americans - a difference of more than $2,500 over the past 12 years.
That Congress has ceased to function effectively has become an article of faith for most Americans. But the extent of the gridlock on Capitol Hill may not be fully appreciated. Over its two-year life span, the 112th Congress that just adjourned passed just 200 laws, 31 percent of the average of the 32 Congresses preceding it. Even the bills that were passed were mostly housekeeping measures, like laws to name post offices or extend existing laws. Now, some may say, "That's great. I don't want Congress to do anything anyway." I have a different view. I believe that our country has many problems and that our federal lawmakers are paid to help address them.
Another article of faith is that Congress has become far more polarized. That general perception is well supported by a number of academic studies. For example, one researcher, Keith T. Poole, assigned a score to each member of Congress based on his or her voting record. He then calculated an average for Democrats' and Republicans' scores and used the difference to create an index. His conclusion was that the House has become more polarized than at any time since at least 1879, and the Senate nearly so.
Nate Silver was not the only statistically based political prognosticator to cover himself with glory during the recent presidential election. The online betting service Intrade did nearly as well. Throughout the ups and downs of a hard-fought campaign season, it remained solidly confident that President Obama would be re-elected. (The October surge in the probability of an Obama victory probably resulted from Mitt Romney's notorious "47 percent" remark; the subsequent decline for Mr. Obama followed his poor performance in the first debate.) Intrade also predicted correctly the winner of 49 states and 31 of 33 Senate races. Mr. Silver, who writes for The New York Times, relies on statistical analysis of polling data; Intrade is a prediction market, and its electoral forecast is grounded in the widely accepted belief that the views of thousands as to who they think will win (as opposed to whom they support) provides more accurate forecasts than polls do.

        
Outsourcing Is Not (Always) Evil
        
What We Give Up for Health Care
        
A Bankrupt Bargain on Taxes
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents
        
From All Sides, Fiscal Plans Fall Far Short of What's Needed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX LAW (78%); HISTORY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); MEDICARE (74%); TRENDS (70%); MEDICAID (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); TAX RELIEF (65%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; federal budget; federal taxes; national debt; Federal Budget (US); Federal Taxes (US); Income Inequality; Labor and Jobs; National Debt (US); Recession and Depression; United States Economy; United States; Steven Rattner

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013



1012 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Hold Your Applause, Please, Until After the Toasts

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The year in deals brought highs like the turnaround at A.I.G., the noble mea culpa at JPMorgan Chase and the potentially promising future of Yahoo. 

 BODY:
Gentlemen, ladies, please take your seats.
It is time for DealBook's annual "Closing Dinner," where we toast - and more important, roast - the deal makers of 2012 (and some of the still-hammering-out-the-fiscal-cliff-deal makers).
This year's dinner is in Washington so that some of esteemed attendees can run back for negotiations.
We have a number of Wall Street deal makers at the front table: Jamie Dimon, Lloyd C. Blankfein and Warren E. Buffett. They may have an easier time negotiating than some of our elected officials because, as Mr. Buffett likes to say, "My idea of a group decision is to look in the mirror." 
 Across the way is Steven A. Cohen of SAC Capital. We sat him next to Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, so they could get to know each other a little better. Steve, a little advice: don't let Preet borrow your cellphone.
Greg Smith, the former Goldman Sachs banker who wrote a tell-all called "Why I Left Goldman Sachs," is here. Mr. Smith managed to wangle a reported $1.5 million payday from his publisher, but his book sold poorly and his publisher was left with a huge loss. Nice to see you learned something from your years in banking, Greg.
Timothy F. Geithner and Ben S. Bernanke are sitting at the dais this year, as is Mario Draghi. Strangely, they are playing Monopoly under the table with real dollar bills. (I heard Mr. Bernanke tell Mr. Draghi, "We can always print more.")
The board of Hewlett-Packard is at the table at the back. Senator Harry Reid and Senator Mitch McConnell, whatever you do, don't ask Meg Whitman for pointers on how to make the numbers work.
We're pleased that Speaker John Boehner also decided to join us this year. We had asked him to invite some other senior members of his caucus, but as you can see from the empty seats at his table, none of them were willing to join him. So we've stuck him next to Vikram Pandit.
Mitt Romney just arrived and is sitting at the table sponsored by the Private Equity Growth Capital Council. He is with some of his supporters, among them Leon Cooperman of Omega Advisors and the Koch Brothers. And yes, Mitt, there is a hidden video camera in the floral arrangement in front of you.
Finally, a quick thank you to the folks from Barclays and UBS. Their teams who got caught up in the Libor scandal agreed to pay for tonight's dinner. Apparently, there is some dispute with the caterer, however, because the bankers are trying to set the rate. (Rimshot.)
And now, before the humor runs out (if it hasn't already), onto the official toasts and roasts of 2012:
 TURNAROUND OF THE YEAR Robert H. Benmosche, A.I.G.'s chief executive, take a bow. The bailout of your company at the height of the financial crisis will probably never be popular, but it will be profitable. (And it should be a bit more popular, too.)
The Treasury Department sold its last shares in the company in 2012, racking up a profit of $22.7 billion for taxpayers. Mr. Benmosche, a tough-talking executive who at one point early in his tenure at A.I.G. threatened to quit because of efforts by the government to meddle in the business, revived a company that had been left for dead. Most of the media, the pundits and the speculators got it wrong. You got it right. We do all owe you a thank you.
 LEADERSHIP LESSON: JAMIE DIMON Mr. Dimon, the biggest failure of your career happened in 2012 with the loss of more than $5 billion by a group of your traders, including one known as the "London Whale." Many C.E.O.'s would have lost their jobs and certainly would not be given a toast.
But you did something most executives would not have done: you admitted to the mistake. In an age when it's almost de rigueur on Wall Street to hide problems, obfuscate and shade the truth, you told it how it was: "We have egg on our face, and we deserve any criticism we get."
That's not to say the situation was handled perfectly; the lack of details about the loss and your continued pushback against regulations raised more questions than answers. But your insistence that "We made a terrible, egregious mistake" is a lesson in leadership for your peers.
 CREDIT WHERE CREDIT IS DUE: MARIO DRAGHI Mr. Draghi, the economist and former Goldman Sachs banker turned president of the European Central Bank, nearly single-handedly saved the euro zone in 2012. In a master stroke, he said: "Within our mandate, the E.C.B. is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro."
That sentence will go down in history for the confidence it inspired in the markets and in countries like Greece, Spain and Italy that were thought to be on the precipice. Through behind-the-scenes shuttle diplomacy with leaders like Angela Merkel of Germany and Mario Monti of Italy, Mr. Draghi was able to convince reluctant politicians that it was in his purview to start buying up bonds if a country needed help - and requested it. So far, his comments alone have served as a remarkable backstop; no country has sought his help.
 A BOARD IN NEED OF HELP, AGAIN Bashing the board of Hewlett-Packard is becoming boring. Its members, who have routinely turned over, had another tough year.
The company's stock fell about 45 percent. H.P. disclosed that its $11.7 billion acquisition of Autonomy, in which it paid an 80 percent premium, had turned out to be a mess (which wasn't exactly a secret) - or worse, a fraud. But in a strange twist, perhaps trying to remove some of the blame for the disaster of a deal, the board attributed at least $5 billion of the write-down of the deal simply to accounting chicanery.
Some have questioned H.P.'s math. Perhaps some of the write-down is the result of accounting problems, but $5 billion? C'mon. Hewlett's board, however, still has some friends: It has paid an estimated $81 million to Wall Street to help orchestrate some its failed deals in recent years.
 SEEKING FACEBOOK 'FRIENDS' Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's C.E.O., has been attending our "Closing Dinner" for years. (He wore Adidas flip-flops to his first.) Back then, he was the "It" boy - the one everyone in the room wanted to "friend." This year, after Facebook pursued its I.P.O., some investors want to "unfriend" him.
As everyone knows, the market has not been kind to Facebook shares, which were sold at $38 a share and at one point this year dropped by half. The good news is that Facebook's shares have rebounded and are now at about $26 a share; the bad news is that long-term shareholders are still down about 30 percent.
With questions about Facebook's privacy policies and mobile strategy still at the fore, Mr. Zuckerberg has some work to do. Hopefully, when we reconvene next year, more investors will want to sit at your table. (My apologies for sticking you next to Andrew Mason of Groupon.)
YAHOO FINALLY GETS IT RIGHT For nearly the last five years, if not decade, Yahoo had clearly lost its luster. It went through a series of C.E.O.'s, its best engineers left to work at Google and Facebook, and its stock had tanked.
Enter Daniel S. Loeb, the activist investor. He saw value where others didn't. He also used some clever powers of persuasion to get on the company's board: He ousted Scott Thompson, Yahoo's new chief (remember him?) for lying on his rsum by saying he had a computer science degree when, in truth, he had an accounting degree. That sleuthing, and the ensuing embarrassment for the board, gave Mr. Loeb an opening to get his slate of directors on the board.
But most important, once he got on the board, he did something nobody expected: He hired Marissa Mayer, a true Silicon Valley star from Google, to run the company. The jury is still out on the company's future, but for the first time in ages, people are talking about the company as if it actually has a future. Kudos.

        
Mortgage Lending Helps JPMorgan Profit Rise 34%
        
JPMorgan Finance Chief Is Expected to Step Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CAUCUSES (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) American International Group Inc; Banking and Financial Institutions; Benmosche, Robert H; Dimon, James; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Mayer, Marissa; Yahoo! Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Yahoo! Inc|YHOO|NASDAQ; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Private Equity; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Yahoo! Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Yahoo! Inc; YHOO; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (87%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); MARISSA MAYER (74%); ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (70%); STEVEN A COHEN (70%); WARREN BUFFETT (69%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (55%); BEN BERNANKE (55%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); JOHN BOEHNER (54%); HARRY REID (54%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%); STEVEN COHEN (53%); LEON G COOPERMAN (50%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (50%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%) Benmosche, Robert H; Dimon, James; Mayer, Marissa

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013

 
