

801 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: DATA UPDATE

 BODY:

MEDIAN RESALE HOUSES PRICES	Oct. 89	 Sept. 89	 Oct. 88	 	Nation	$92,100	$94,300	$88,900	Northeast	143,300	145,700	144,400	Midwest	70,900	72,200	68,000	South	83,400	84,400	80,500	West	142,200	147,600	130,000	Source: National Association of Realtors	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	MORTAGE INTEREST RATES (Average)		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.98	9.99	11.02	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.57	8.57	8.51	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.81	9.81	10.79	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.36	8.37	8.39	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.90	9.93	10.92	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.53	8.52	8.78	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.27	10.25	11.35	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.75	8.76	8.63	 	 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	 	 	 	 	1-yr. Treasury Security	7.73	7.73	9.00	National Mortgage	 	 	 	 Contract Rate	9.80	9.80	9.16	
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortagages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; RATES; SALES REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); STATISTICS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); 



802 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2604 words

HEADLINE: What Needs To Be Done?

BYLINE: By Kenneth Lipper; Kenneth Lipper, an investment banker and author of the novel ''Wall Street,'' was Deputy Mayor of New York City from 1983 to 1985.

 BODY:
MIDDLE-CLASS NEW YORK IS SLIDING slowly into decline. A novelist friend who spent his whole life on the West Side is thinking Suffolk because his young son is hounded by drug dealers twice a day as he goes back and forth to school. An elderly woman is knocked to the sidewalk on Park Avenue and brutally beaten with a pipe until she surrenders her pocketbook. Women and children in Harlem and Bed-Stuy are shut-ins behind barred windows and locked doors, afraid of the streets and hallways that neighborhood junkies, dealers, prostitutes and pimps have captured as their own territory.
So long as this violence was confined to the ghettos, only a few of us seemed to get excited. But now the drug disease is everywhere; we're fighting for the soul of New York City. Once middle-class bastions such as Washington Heights and South Jamaica have fallen into the war zone, where drugs are openly sold and consumed by whole families. Police are executed as a warning not to meddle with the lucrative drug trade. The hospital system is collapsing under the twin assault of overdoses and AIDS. In short, New York City is at risk of becoming another Colombia. 
Yet the city still possesses magic. Central Park joggers circling the reservoir gaze at a wall of new skyscrapers silhouetted against the sky. High above grimy 14th Street Zeckendorf's towers rise over a spruced-up Union Square. Citicorp initiates the Queens skyline with a 50-story office building. The New York Stock Exchange prepares to break ground for a state-of-the-art computer facility in Brooklyn, and RJR Nabisco moves its worldwide headquarters from Atlanta to Manhattan. For all its woes, New York harbors tremendous wealth. Its $30 billion annual budget is the fourth largest in the land, after the Federal, California and New York State budgets. It is a nation unto itself: Only 22 countries in the world have larger budgets than ours.
Despite all this affluence, New York still faces the broader American dilemma: how to deal with the new reality of a permanent underclass living amidst general prosperity. The city's vast resources pale in light of the tasks at hand. It's already apparent that our new Mayor will be forced to wrestle with multi-million dollar deficits during his four-year term. New York's big crunch will come from irresistible social costs meeting immutable fiscal realities, especially if we find ourselves in the midst of a national recession. This crunch is likely to cause a(Continued on Page 45) more permanent wound than the city's near-bankruptcy did in the 1970's. Urban political clout in Congress is diminished, the yawning national deficit is a tighter noose around the Federal neck, and George Bush is no Jimmy Carter when it comes to helping cities.
Albany is in bad fiscal shape itself and could not provide the kind of relief it did in the last crisis. And New York City's financial services engine will be idling in the 90's, rather than revving up as it did in the early 80's. If the bond markets are at all correct in their expectations of a softer national economy, New York's projected deficit could become a fiscal black hole.
Who's going to bail us out? The one constituency that could is in danger of defecting. New York City's tax structure is a pyramid precariously balanced on its narrowing point. The hundreds of thousands of unemployed and working poor people in New York present City Hall with bottomless needs that are heavily borne by an extremely small taxpayer base numbering in the thousands. These taxpayers receive very few direct benefits from municipal government. Their children go to private schools, they rarely travel by subway, and they use a municipal hospital only if they're unlucky enough to get hit by a car while crossing Park Avenue. Yet the city needs them - desperately. If New York loses its upper-middle and wealthy classes, the city will flounder, without the human and financial resources to right itself.
Look at the statistics: There are 7 million legal and many more illegal residents, but only approximately 10,000 households pay 20 percent of the $2.6 billion personal income tax; 180,000 households pay 50 percent. Four hundred buildings clustered in Manhattan pay the bulk of the $5 billion in commercial property tax, and a mere 1,000 out of the city's 350,000 companies account for 50 percent of our $1.7 billion business income tax.
Who are the precious 10,000? The vital 200,000? The 10,000 earn at least a quarter-million dollars a year, include many small and some mega-millionaires, and generally live in Manhattan zip code 10021. The 200,000 huddle in enclaves on the Upper West Side; Riverdale, the Bronx; Forest Hills, Queens; Brooklyn Heights, and Todt Hill, Staten Island. They are primarily middle-aged and older, with a complement of yuppies - bankers, brokers, corporate executives, television or theatrical people, lawyers, doctors, publishers and journalists. Their talents and computers allow them to live anywhere; they are New Yorkers by choice. If the city's drug and crime problems are not contained soon, many of these people are out of here. And even a modest exodus would cloud New York's future. WHAT CAN MAYor Dinkins do about this threat to New York's viability? To begin with, he needs money. A $395 million deficit in New York City's financial plan is projected for fiscal 91, which begins on July 1, 1990. This gap exists even after an extremely ambitious 8 1/2 percent assumed revenue increase over the prior year's tax collections (5 percent inflation plus 3 1/2 percent real economic growth); inclusion of $300 million of questionable revenues from the Coliseum deal at Columbus Circle, which is under indefinite legal siege by anti-development forces, and a labor settlement projected at a fanciful 1 1/2 percent. In contrast to the politicians' wishful thinking, the city is already experiencing shortfalls in its current collection of economically sensitive taxes, including real estate, corporate and sales taxes.
The recently settled hospital strike adds to the Mayor's financial woes, because it sets a pattern for his negotiations with 250,000 municipal workers close upon the heels of his arrival at City Hall. Each percentage point of wage increase costs the city $110 million per year. Matching the hospital settlement would cost the city about $1.6 billion over the two-year life of the contract; even a settlement that just mirrors the inflation rate would generate an $800 million additional deficit over two years, on top of the projected $395 million annual budget gap - and there are no apparent revenues to pay these anticipated shortfalls. Mayor Dinkins might have to implement new taxes or real cutbacks in city services just to keep running in place.
How can Dinkins reduce expenditures? Where will the cuts come from? As Deputy Mayor, I learned how difficult it was to manage for scarcity. I fought with fire chiefs to close fire houses; cajoled the school chancellor to consolidate under-utilized schools; urged borough presidents to accept reduced street cleaning, park maintenance and museum hours; urged sanitation workers to reduce union manning rules from three-man to two-man trucks. You win some, you lose some.
As Mayor Dinkins made clear two weeks ago at a breakfast for New York civic leaders, a behemoth budget does not mean there is much discretion in allocating it. Roughly two-thirds of the budget is legally mandated for expenses such as Medicaid, welfare, pensions and debt service. A significant amount is practically and politically mandated for essential services such as fire, police, sanitation and teachers. In effect, close to 95 percent of the operating budget is spoken for, which leaves about 5 percent of the budget for new or improved programs. The severity of the inevitable budget crunch will wipe away even this marginal amount.
Can the Mayor raise taxes? New Yorkers are already heavily taxed, and the narrow taxpayer base is already showing decreased commitment to the city; a majority of our businesses said in a recent survey that they were contemplating moving out, because of drugs and crime. The real-estate tax is the only vehicle with enough potential yield to even begin to compensate for a huge deficit. Since tax increases on New York's 600,000 homeowners are severely circumscribed by state legislation and political realities, Mayor Dinkins will be forced to look at a tax hike on commercial property.
During the Koch tenure, 57 million square feet of new commercial space was added to the skyline, mostly in a few square blocks bounded by 42d and 59th Streets, Wall Street and Battery Park City - more than the total square footage of office space found in cities such as Atlanta or Denver. New buildings are a boon, since they add revenues to the tax rolls. Several skyscrapers are being completed, but new construction permits have dried up in the face of a vacancy rate that stands at an estimated 15 percent and growing. Slow space absorption, low inflation and soft rental prices will also be reflected in static or perhaps lower assessed values on existing commercial buildings.
Matters are made worse by a ''no investment'' mentality that has set in among New York developers. One of our Forbes 400 real-estate moguls recently told me at a cocktail party that he and his fellow developers were deeply concerned over what they perceived as an antibusiness/anti-development attitude in the new administration, and uneasy about how the new City Charter would work out. He confided that the major developers had decided not to build in New York City until the political situation clarifies itself.
I once asked a furniture repossessor for a finance company how he protected himself from angry debtors. He replied, so long as they keep talking or even screaming you're O.K., but if they go silent you better do something quick or they'll hurt you. It reminds me of Mobil Oil and New York. For years Mobil complained about crime, filth and vendors around their Grand Central headquarters. For a time, the city managed to improve things, but then the explosion of drugs and homelessness overwhelmed the area. Mobil fell silent in despair - and moved to Virginia. J.C. Penney, Celanese and now Exxon have deserted us. Merrill Lynch, Salomon Brothers, Bankers Trust and Paine Webber, the core of our financial services industry, moved thousands of clerical jobs to New Jersey. The corporate emigre's refrain is always the same - drugs, crime and a poorly educated work force.
Such visible defections usually mean the end of big American cities, but so far rumors of the death of New York have turned out to be greatly exaggerated. During the 1980's, 350 foreign and many out-of-state financial institutions opened regional operations here. This historic good fortune is unlikely to repeat itself. At least no responsible leader can count on it, so we're down to the bedrock of having to do something drastic to cure the underlying causes of New York's deteriorating quality of life, or we may lose it all.
One of the Mayor's top priorities must be to focus on the twin quality-of-life problems that immediately threaten the city: drug-related crime and homelessness. One thing he might do is create a fund to combat these two problems. Here Albany could lend a financial hand; after all, it helped bring about this crisis in the 70's and 80's, when it deinstitutionalized many of its mental patients without providing promised halfway houses to treat and shelter them. Many of these victims ended up homeless in New York's bus and train stations.
Inflation, economic growth and real-estate taxes from previously increased assessments will produce at least $1 billion this year. Why not use some of this money for a quality-of-life fund? Mayor Dinkins might also impose a $500 million across-the-board budget cut of city services - from the parks department, street cleaning, transportation, and whatever else makes the city run - and match it with an across-the-board surtax, both spread out over two years. My guess is that this surtax would be supported by the public, if it is used for credible programs that could have a decisive impact on drug abuse and homelessness. Add to the operating fund another $4 billion, redirected from the city's capital budget for structures and equipment, and we will have the physical facilities necessary to support the Mayor's drug abuse and homeless programs. WE NEED NOT wave the white flag in the face of these tough problems, only make tough decisions to deal with them. Failure to act decisively now is to doom city life as we have known it in the 20th century. Things have been tough before and New York has righted itself. In 1975 a famous Daily News headline proclaimed ''Ford To City: Drop Dead,'' but New York miraculously resurrected itself from bankruptcy.
In the 1980's our subways were a symbol of urban chaos as they lumbered through smoke-filled tunnels, festooned with primitive art. Today the subways are graffiti-free. New York's infrastructure was crumbling, but Mayor Koch's $50 billion capital improvement program, which drew nothing but complaints from inconvenienced motorists, will bring New York into the 21st century in pretty good shape. In a belated but aggressive response to the predicament of homeless families, the government moved them into abandoned housing that had been converted into permanent dwellings.
One cannot venture a prognosis for the city without taking into account the intangible ''New York Idea,'' which gives the city its unique energy. For those of us who were born here, the cold asphalt pavement seems to lift beneath our feet in warm familiar greeting, no matter how long and how happily we've lived elsewhere. Ambitious newcomers are still attracted here from everywhere in the world, to be tested among the toughest and finest minds. Then there is the persistence of the dream that has drawn poor immigrants to New York for two centuries - the opportunity to open a small business and raise a family in an atmosphere free of war, persecution and other threats to physical and mental security. Now it's the Asians and Russians. They have brought fresh energy to neighborhoods such as Flushing and Brighton Beach, which were all but abandoned by their middle-class residents. The sons and daughters of these immigrants will be tomorrow's doctors, scientists, lawyers and statesmen.
It is hard to measure the worth of living in a city where ideas count, a place where people still get excited about politics, race, religion, books, plays and other people. New York is the antonym of provincial; its melting-pot mix, charged atmosphere, omnipresent media and insatiable curiosity make the happenings and travails of the rest of the world seem like local events.
The ability to walk everywhere, unbounded by a smog-filled freeway, is an incalculable freedom. Shops, fashion salons, street fairs, bookstores, galleries, ethnic neighborhoods, libraries, Wall Street, thousands of restaurants, theater on demand (Broadway, Off Broadway, Off Off Broadway), concerts from Bach to Rock: It is Moscow's circus, Vienna's opera, Paris's Champs-Elysees, Tokyo's stock exchange, Rome's Via Veneto, all pulsating within one vibrant city. Such quality of life is worth a stiff price. New York will not be easily throttled, but New Yorkers are beginning to ask, ''How much is too much?'' It would be a blow to civilization if we let this magnificent thing, this world-class city, this fragile organic creation, succumb to the ravages of urban barbarism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (53%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); KRAFT NABISCO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BUDGETS (89%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); MAYORS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); POLITICS (60%); PROSTITUTION (55%); HOSPITALS (52%); 

PERSON: LIPPER, KENNETH; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (52%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); 



803 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Cleveland;
A Downtown Mall Adjusts to Setback

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STOFFEL

DATELINE: CLEVELAND

 BODY:
WHEN the BP America headquarters building was completed here in early 1985 on Public Square, the city's center, there was brave talk that a new era in downtown prosperity was beginning.
The 45-story tower, the first new construction on the square in 50 years, includes 40,000 retail square feet on the first two levels of an eight-story atrium; the idea was to attract retailers and turn downtown employees into shoppers before and after work.
That has been a hard sell. Despite the 3,000 people who work in the building and the total downtown work force of 150,000, 10 percent of the retail space is vacant. 
As in much of the Middle West, retailers here were hurt by the downturn in the region's economy. In Cleveland, the recession of the 70's brought with it empty stores. In early 1982, a premiere department store, Halle Brothers, was sold and stood empty until it reopened as an office building in October 1985.
The current vacancy rate is 6 percent, with rentals ranging from $20 to $40 a square foot. Some new retail tenants, as part of their initial one- or two-year lease, are paying a percentage of net sales instead of by the square foot.
Last year, the original strategy for the retail atrium in the BP building was abandoned. Instead of trying to create a specialty center with high-priced boutiques, the space is being marketed primarily to service stores. With the addition of a restaurant, a card-and-gift shop and an expanded travel agency, it is 90 percent leased.
''We have determined that the two types of retailers that we need here and that can survive are destination retailers and retailers who service the tenants in the building,'' said Glenn Torch, manager of commercial properties for BP America.
To change the shopping habits would also require changing Clevelanders' perceptions about downtown, as well as competing with suburban retail development, according to a report prepared for the city in 1987 by Cambridge Systematics, a consulting group in Cambridge, Mass.
''Cleveland is kind of an archetype,'' Karl Radov, senior economist and co-author of the study, said. ''There are more shopping malls around it than other cities of its size and many individual towns.''
Although municipal planners and policy makers here and elsewhere in the region are increasingly turning to retail development to revitalize cities, the suburbs have been besting downtown for residential and retail development for more than a decade.
Columbus City Center, a 1.2-million-square-foot shopping mall that opened this year, took more than a decade of planning. In downtown Indianapolis, plans for a one-million-square-foot mixed-use development for two blocks have been in the works since 1978.
A few projects have been failures. Portside in Toledo, a 60,000-square-foot shopping center that is 18 percent vacant, may be offered free to the city. The development and its problems were a major factor in the sale of the prime backer, Trustcorp Inc. of Toledo, to another bank, Society Corp of Cleveland.
Principals of Forest City Enterprises Inc., a developer here, have been more optimistic. In 1980, they began envisioning the addition of a major downtown retail center to complement the renovation of the 600,000-square-foot, 60-year-old, 52-story Terminal Tower.
The president and chief executive officer of Forest City, Albert B. Ratner, a native of Cleveland, said he believed Forest City could overcome negative perceptions of the city and its downtown. ''There is the philosophy, which I subscribe to,'' he said, ''that if it was a great downtown, it will be a great downtown again.''
After pursuing a ''wish list'' of retailers over several months with virtually no results, Forest City executives started an aggressive marketing campaign. ''The single biggest challenge was to get people to come to Cleveland,'' Mr. Ratner said.
FOREST CITY returned to its wish-list retailers and asked them how they pick their locations. The merchants said they sought viable downtown areas, studies of consumers' habits and safety. Forest City then conducted a mailing campaign with stores to explain the city's strong points, including arts activities and density.
Forest City then surveyed upper-income households in the metropolitan region and found that 67 percent of the women were already traveling downtown twice a week. Studies of focus groups yielded a list of preferred designer labels and a list of cities where they did most of their shopping. New York and Chicago were at the top of the list.
''Essentially, we showed them that here was a city with the wealth and literally no competition,'' said Emerick Corsi, a vice president of Forest City in charge of retail leasing for the Tower City Center.
Another help has been the $60 million renovation of a rapid-transit station, the sole downtown commuter stop. The work is scheduled to be completed in July. Meanwhile, about 30,000 people a day use the station - picking their way through the construction.
''By and large, the greatest criticism of multilevel malls is the basic problem of vertical traffic,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''With the new station, people will be going in all directions..''
With its plans for the $400 million renovation and expansion of Terminal Tower under way, Forest City announced last month that 80 percent of the 380,000 square feet of new retail space had been leased and would open in March. For several stores, including Liz Claiborne World and Bally of Switzerland, the Tower City Center sites will be their first in Ohio.
''It took them a long time to convince me to visit Cleveland, but when I saw the magnitude of their project, I knew it would work,'' said Viken Momdjian, owner of Politix, a mens wear boutique. Mr. Momdjian will be opening his first store outside of California at Tower City Center.
Hoyts Cinemas of Boston announced an 11-screen complex, the first theaters to open downtown in more than 20 years. A 207-room Ritz-Carlton Hotel is to open in July, along with 130,000 square feet of office space on three floors of a 14-story complex.
Two office buildings, a 440,000-square-foot renovated former post office and a new 330,000-square-foot 12-story tower, are expected to be ready late next year. Fifty percent of the 900,000 square feet of office space in the three buildings has been leased.
Neiman-Marcus plans to enter the Ohio market with a 120,000-square-foot store in 1992, which was announced as part of the long-term plans for the project. The later phase, to begin in 1991, is to include three department stores, an additional 350,000 square feet of retail space, three million square feet of office space and two hotels.
The construction will extend the project three blocks, from Public Square to the eastern bank of the Cuyahoga River, and will link Tower City with the planned Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame and Museum.
The final cost is expected to reach $1 billion.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCE (AMEX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BP AMERICA INC (84%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); WRITERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); SUBURBS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 



804 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 6, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Decline in Car Sales Cuts Towns' Revenues

BYLINE: By Associated Press

 BODY:
A SHARP decline in car sales coupled with an apparent increase in ''buying down'' is cutting into municipal tax revenues across Connecticut and could result in larger tax increases than expected next year in some towns, municipal officials say.
In general, towns that have not recently done property revaluations will feel the effects of the car slump the most because for them taxes on automobiles represent a more significant share of their total revenues. Revaluations are required every 10 years. 
In the town of Derby, for example, the value of cars purchased between Oct. 2, 1988, and Aug. 1, 1989, was $4.86 million, down $750,000 from last year's supplemental list.
''Any kind of drop, especially in a small town like Derby, hurts,'' said Paul Dinice, the tax assessor.
 
'Buying Down
The problem is not simply that car sales are off, said James Clynes, the town assessor in Hamden.
An analysis of car purchases in Hamden showed ''an awful lot of people trading in more expensive cars and buying down,'' Mr. Clynes said.
''We're finding this year that they're trading in that $20,000 Volvo and buying that $14,000 Chevrolet,'' he said.
 
Falloff in Assessments
This is the second year that Hamden has experienced a drop in the number of cars on its tax list but only the first time assessments have actually declined, Mr. Clynes said.
In Hamden, this year's motor vehicle list had a taxable value of $23.6 million, about $1 million less than last year's. That will translate into a loss of about $56,000 in tax revenues.
In the town of Clinton, this year's supplemental list is worth $6.19 million, $890,000 less than last year.
''I saw the figures and I gnashed my teeth,'' said First Selectman Virginia D. Zawoy of Clinton. ''They don't indicate something positive.
''On the one hand, you've got a situation where the costs of general government and education are going up and up,'' she said. ''On the other hand, you've got the unhappy scenario of decreased Grand List growth coupled with decreased funding from the state, which is in financial trouble.''
Supplemental lists record motor vehicle purchases made after each municipality creates its Grand List of property by Oct. 1 of each year.
 
A Warning Sign
Declines in the value of the lists are an economic warning sign, said Charles G. Agli, the president of the Connecticut Association of Assessing Officers and the assessor for New Britain.
He noted that the last time the supplemental list declined in Derby was in the last recesssion, at the beginning of the 1980's.
Car purchases in Connecticut this year are off by 25 percent to 35 percent from last year's levels, said Steven Gabriel, executive vice president of the Connecticut Automobile Association.
While the supplemental list figures reflect purchases made up to Aug. 1, Mr. Gabriel said car sales have declined even further since then. Since the summer buying season the market ''has really hit the skids,'' he said.
Hartford this year experienced its first decline in the number of cars on its tax list, but the assistant chief assessor, William Schmidt, said the drop would not really affect the city. Hartford performed a revaluation of its taxable property this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES G LAWSON TRUCKING (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (65%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (65%); 



805 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: Coping With the Economic Prospects of 1990

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
SURVIVING the decline in the economy will be the overriding issue for 1990, say leaders of the county's business community. Although the consensus is that Westchester will fare better than many other areas, there is concern that layoffs and a lack of affordable housing will hamper the county's economic recovery.
Here are excerpts from conversations with eight business leaders, as they assess the prospects in such fields as real estate, small businesses, hotels and the construction industries.
S. J. Schulman, president, Westchester County Association:
All prognosticators are suitably humbled nowadays: Where were they last year with their predictions about Eastern Europe? Closer to home there is greater confidence, because we're dealing with mostly rational factors and generally predictable persons. In Westchester that means three groups whose actions we have to assess: government officials, business leaders, consumers. 
In 1990, government leaders will gradually accept the lessons of the newly downturned economy and will thus understand that spend-and-tax programs are going to be resisted strenuously. Westchester will start emulating the taxpayer revolts that have increasingly become common on Long Island.
Business leaders are going to continue their corporate perestroika efforts, meaning restructuring that leads to lower employment. The likes of International Business Machines and A.T.&T. and General Foods will be joined by others seeking to become more cost-conscious, to be more competitive in the new downturning economy.
Consumers in Westchester will be more careful with their disposable incomes and more restrained in how they spend money for housing. The new restraint and consumer cautions will be fed by more bad news from Albany and New York City. The state will go through a debate on whether we can afford to continue with the personal income tax plan. New York City's new administration will have less money to meet perceived needs, so will be a major supplicant looking to Albany.
Westchester's economic strains will be exacerbated by those in New York City, with a fallout effect on many of our commuters who have been accustomed to secure and well-paid positions. In 1990, everyone's position will be at risk.
Paul J. Schosberg, president, New York League of Savings Institutions, in Scarsdale:
Westchester's housing market, like that throughout the entire Northeast, softened in 1989 and that is obviously a concern. But because of the strength of the regional economy and the steady housing demand, local lenders are optimistic that the situation will improve in 1990.
Westchester's savings institutions, like their colleagues throughout the state, found the decade of the 1980's to be a period of tremendous change. The creation of innovative new mortgage instruments, the development of an effective national secondary mortgage market and the introduction of strong new competitors have all had an impact on the local mortgage market. Westchester savings institutions made more home mortgage loans in the 1980's than in any other decade in their history.
It is widely felt that interest rates will move lower in the months ahead. That, coupled with the leveling - even some downward movement - in the prices of homes, should spur additional activity in the housing market.
In the 1990's, the issue of affordable housing will become more and more important in Westchester. Parents are concerned about how their children will be able to purchase that first home, and children will be concerned about how their parents can live in comfort in their golden years. And we all, as a community, are concerned that decent, affordable housing is available to every citizen.
 Donald R. Angelilli, chairman of the 400-member Building Trades Employers Association, in White Plains:
Westchester construction industry employers, and their trade-union counterparts, will be in for a slow year in 1990 - the slowest since 1982.
The outlook for basic industry sectors - residential, commercial and public - looks weak as market forces remain sluggish. We estimate that building trades will see unemployment reach 20 percent as a result of a faltering residential and commercial market.
With a current workforce of about 32,000 men and women, unemployment averaged around 10 percent in 1989, an average year by most standards. Virtually full employment was achieved in 1987, when construction labor was imported from other states to meet the booming demand.
Public construction, reflecting major infrastructure improvement, will remain firm but not enough to offset the slide in other sectors.
The general construction outlook for the early 90's remains uncertain.
Cy Leighton, president of the 1,300-member Builders Institute of Westchester, in White Plains:
The latter part of next year will see a strengthening of home-buyer interest, but the weak market may be with us for another nine months. Despite falling interest rates, housing starts in Westchester County in 1990 will continue their downward trend, from their peak in 1987 when about 5,000 dwelling units were started. About 2,900 starts are expected in 1990.
Even with encouraging signals from other sectors of the Westchester economy, home buyers have been slow to regain confidence lost after the October 1987 stock market crash. Adding to flat demand, changes in the 1986 tax-reform law have virtually stopped buying by investors.
The unsold inventory of cooperative apartments - estimated at about 2,500 units - remains the largest source of moderate-income housing in the county.
As a result of buyer apathy, home prices are coming down and good housing buys are available. This, coupled with moderating interest rates, should make for a healthier and firmer market in late 1990 and early 1991. Throughout it all, both builders and buyers must remember that housing is cyclical; we look forward to the beginning of an upturn in the cycle in 1990.
P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president, Westchester County Board of Realtors, in White Plains:
Nineteen-ninety can be a good year for Westchester's residential real estate market if we all realize that 1984 was six years ago. It is no longer reasonable to expect to receive one purchase offer per hour, hand-delivered, each 15 percent higher than the last - which does not overly exaggerate conditions in the mid-1980's.
Houses that are priced at or below the median for their neighborhoods (around $300,000 countywide) should move fairly well. Such properties have withstood the downward pressures in the market and the price range remains affordable to many purchasers. Higher-end properties will sell well, too, if sellers resist the temptation to inflate the initial asking price on the ''maybe we'll be lucky'' theory of marketing.
The best buys next year will be resale cooperatives. That market could really take off if first-time buyers and small households become familiar with large inventory at very favorable prices.
Overall, there's no real threat of a serious real estate recession looming over Westchester in 1990. We're just moving from a lopsided sellers' market to a much more reasonable balance between supply and demand. Sellers will actually have to ''sell,'' and buyers should expect to pay high but fair prices.
Martin S. Berger, president, Robert Martin Company, in Elmsford:
Real estate throughout the nation is rather soft, with generally overbuilt conditions prevailing in both office and residential markets.
Westchester County, with its geographic and environmental attributes, will fare better than most areas. But construction starts will be sharply reduced during 1990, causing commensurate reductions in employment and related economic activity.
Major lending institutions have adopted a cautious attitude and prudent real estate developers are concentrating heavily on improved marketing and property-management techniques. With priorities being re-examined by political and community leaders, sorely needed affordable housing, highway and airport improvements, as well as other cultural and infrastructure upgrades, will be the order of the day in the 90's - despite obstructions placed by the not-in-my-backyard elements. They traditionally place selfish prejudices above the pressing needs of a society, which must either progress or stagnate.
Ernst Rechtermann, president, Westchester County Hotel Association:
In 1989, overall occupancy in hotels through July was 70 percent, up from 68.8 percent for the same period in 1988, and well ahead of the national average of 62.6 percent. Westchester's occupancy rates are higher than the national average because of a greater dependence on corporate business.
We are expecting a small increase in occupancy in the county for 1990. The hotel business in Westchester has now become extremely segmented. We have Marriott's Courtyards, dear to the economy traveler, and several conference centers, in addition to full-service luxury hotels. The expansion in Stamford has hurt the hotel business in Westchester, but the impact has already been absorbed.
In terms of change in the business climate in Westchester that will impact on the hotel business, we know that General Foods' headquarters building is for sale and that International Business Machines vacated a building in White Plains, but new office space is opening in White Plains in 1990. We hope another major corporation will move its headquarters to the General Foods building, and the new White Plains offices will bring more business.
The office vacancy rate in Westchester County increased 22 percent from 1988 to 1989. The major companies are instituting stricter travel policies, restricting the amount they will pay for hotel rooms. There are caps on room-rate allowances and per diems, which also affects our restaurant business. Volume discounting has become widespread.
Another concern we have is that some of the major corporations we depend upon have come upon hard times. Travel and entertainment are key areas for cutbacks. Attendance at conventions has decreased. Smaller meetings and regional meetings are replacing larger conventions.
Ira M. Bratt, chairman of the Small Business Council of the County Chamber of Commerce:
Among the many favorable attributes Westchester offers business are a relatively prosperous population, an educated and expanding workforce, substantial public transportation and various organizations ready, willing and able to assist the business owners of the county.
But facing business owners are numerous problems, from taxes and regulations at all levels of government to competition from other businesses in and out of Westchester. Successful Westchester business owners will face and overcome these risks and obstacles. Westchester is a land of opportunity for the business owner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (55%); IBM (NYSE) (55%); IBM (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) ASSN; SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NEW YORK LEAGUE OF; BUILDING TRADES EMPLOYERS ASSN (WESTCHESTER COUNTY, NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) BOARD OF REALTORS; MARTIN, ROBERT, CO; HOTEL ASSN, WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TRENDS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); LODGING (70%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%); INCOME TAX (67%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (60%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; SCHULMAN, S J; SCHOSBERG, PAUL J; ANGELILLI, DONALD R; MERCURIO, P GILBERT; BERGER, MARTIN S; RECHTERMANN, ERNST; BRATT, IRA M



806 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: A Downtown Cleveland Mall Adjusts to Setback

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STOFFEL

DATELINE: CLEVELAND

 BODY:
When the BP America headquarters building was completed here in early 1985 on Public Square, the city's center, there was brave talk that a new era in downtown prosperity was beginning.
The 45-story tower represented the first new construction on the square in 50 years. The building includes 40,000 square feet of retail space on the first two levels of an eight-story atrium, and the idea was to attract retailers and turn downtown employees into shoppers before and after work.
That has been a hard sell. Despite the 3,000 people who work in the building and the total downtown work force of 150,000, 10 percent of the retail space is vacant. 
As in much of the Middle West, retailers here were hurt by the downturn in the region's economy. In Cleveland, the recession of the 70's brought with it empty stores. In early 1982, a premiere department store, Halle Brothers, was sold and stood empty until it reopened as an office building in October 1985.
The current vacancy rate is 6 percent, with rentals ranging from $20 to $40 a square foot. Some new retail tenants, as part of their initial one- or two-year lease, are paying a percentage of net sales instead of by the square foot.
Last year, the original strategy for the retail atrium in the BP building was abandoned. Instead of trying to create a specialty center with high-priced boutiques, the space is being marketed primarily to service stores.
With the addition of a restaurant, a card-and-gift shop and an expanded travel agency, the retail area is 90 percent leased.
''We have determined that the two types of retailers that we need here and that can survive are destination retailers and retailers who service the tenants in the building,'' said Glenn Torch, manager of commercial properties for BP America. To change the shopping habits would also require changing Clevelanders' perceptions about downtown, as well as competing with suburban retail development, according to a report prepared for the city in 1987 by Cambridge Systematics, a consulting group in Cambridge, Mass.
''Cleveland is kind of an archetype,'' Karl Radov, senior economist and co-author of the study, said. ''There are more shopping malls around it than other cities of its size and many individual towns.''
Although municipal planners and policy makers here and elsewhere in the region are increasingly turning to retail development as a way to revitalize cities, the suburbs have been winning out over downtown for residential and retail development for more than a decade. Efforts to counter the trend have at their best been slow going.
Columbus City Center, a 1.2-million-square-foot shopping mall that opened this year, took more than a decade of planning. In downtown Indianapolis, plans for a one-million-square-foot mixed-use development for two blocks have been in the works since 1978.
A few projects have been failures. Portside in Toledo, a 60,000-square-foot shopping center currently 18 percent vacant, may be offered free to the city. The development and its problems were a major factor in the sale of the prime backer, Trustcorp Inc. of Toledo, to another bank, the Society Corp of Cleveland.
Principals of Forest City Enterprises Inc., a developer here, have been more optimistic. In 1980, they began envisioning the addition of a major downtown retail center to complement the renovation of the 600,000-square-foot, 60-year-old, 52-story Terminal Tower. The president and chief executive officer of Forest City, Albert B. Ratner, a native of Cleveland, said he believed Forest City could overcome negative perceptions of the city and its downtown.
''The bottom line for those of us who have lived here all our lives is that we remember a phenomenal downtown,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''And there is the philosophy, which I subscribe to, that if it was a great downtown, it will be a great downtown again.''
But after pursuing a ''wish list'' of retailers over several months with virtually no results, Forest City executives started an aggressive marketing campaign.
''The single biggest challenge was to get people to come to Cleveland,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''It was on nobody's list.''
Forest City returned to the retailers on its wish list and asked them how they pick their locations. The merchants said they sought viable downtown areas, studies of consumers' habits and safety. Forest City then conducted a mailing campaign with stores to explain the city's strong points, including arts activities and density.
Forest City then surveyed upper-income households in the metropolitan region and found that 67 percent of the women were already traveling downtown twice a week. Studies of focus groups yielded a list of preferred designer labels and a list of cities where they did most of their shopping. New York and Chicago were at the top of the list.
''Essentially, we showed them that here was a city with the wealth and literally no competition,'' said Emerick Corsi, a vice president of Forest City in charge of retail leasing for the Tower City Center.
Another help has been the $60 million renovation of a rapid-transit station, which is the sole downtown commuter stop. The work is scheduled to be completed in July. Meanwhile, about 30,000 people a day use the station - picking their way through the construction.
''By and large, the greatest criticism of multilevel malls is the basic problem of vertical traffic,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''With the new station, people will be going in all directions. We don't have to create traffic.''
With its plans for the $400 million renovation and expansion of Terminal Tower under way, Forest City announced last month that 80 percent of the 380,000 square feet of new retail space had been leased and would open in March. For several stores, including Liz Claiborne World and Bally of Switzerland, the Tower City Center sites will be their first in Ohio.
''It took them a long time to convince me to visit Cleveland, but when I saw the magnitude of their project, I knew it would work,'' said Viken Momdjian, owner of Politix, a mens wear boutique. Mr. Momdjian will be opening his first store outside of California at Tower City Center. Hoyts Cinemas of Boston announced an 11-screen complex, the first theaters to open downtown in more than 20 years. A 207-room Ritz-Carlton Hotel is to open in July, along with 130,000 square feet of office space on three floors of a 14-story complex.
Two office buildings, a 440,000-square-foot renovated former post office and a new 330,000-square-foot 12-story tower, are expected to be ready late next year. Fifty percent of the 900,000 square feet of office space in the three buildings has been leased.
Neiman-Marcus is planning to enter the Ohio market with a 120,000-square-foot store to open in 1992. The department store was announced as part of the long-term plans for the project.
The later phase, to begin in 1991, is to include three department stores along with an additional 350,000 square feet of retail space, three million square feet of office space and two hotels.
The construction will extend the project three blocks, from Public Square to the eastern bank of the Cuyahoga River, and will link Tower City with the planned Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame and Museum.
The final price tag is expected to reach $1 billion, with nearly 10 million square feet of mixed-use commercial space under one roof.

GRAPHIC: photo: Rendering of Tower City Center, office and retail project in downtown Cleveland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCE (AMEX) (87%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BP AMERICA INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CLEVELAND (OHIO)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); TRENDS (73%); WRITERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); SUBURBS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: STOFFEL, JENNIFER ALBERT B RATNER (59%); 



807 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: State Lags In Treating Cocaine Addicts

BYLINE: By JEFFREY HOFF

 BODY:
FOUR years after crack flooded into New Jersey, state support for drug treatment programs remains oriented primarily toward heroin addiction, and the programs can handle only a fraction of the cocaine and heroin addicts, private health and drug experts say.
Treatment ''slots'' exist for only about 6,800 of the state's estimated 150,000 heroin and cocaine users, and prospects for expansion seem clouded by the tight state and Federal budgets. Despite those fiscal limitations, a number of drug rehabilitation experts say the state should be shifting the emphasis from methadone programs aimed at heroin addicts toward methods that seek to change the behavior of both heroin and cocaine addicts.
''The system has not changed in its orientation as fast as the patients have,'' said Dr. Sheldon Miller, chairman of the department of psychiatry at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey in Newark, who is also the president-elect of the American Hospital Association's Council on Psychiatry and Substance Abuse.
State officials acknowledge that methadone maintenance is not helpful for many addicts, but say it is believed to be effective in curbing the spread of AIDS by intravenous drug users. 
More Federal money is expected for rehabilitation programs next year, but the state has not determined how much will be allocated for methadone treatment and how much for programs found to be more effective for crack addicts, said Richard Statkun, director of grants management, monitoring and evaluation at the State Department of Health.
Jack Farrell, director of treatment and rehabilitation service units of the State Department of Health's Division of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse, said the demand for treatment was so overwhelming that the treatment centers filled up as soon as new slots in them were created.
The most recent studies estimate that there are 115,000 cocaine users in New Jersey, although not all of those are classified as addicts, state health officials said. There are from 40,000 to 50,000 heroin addicts in New Jersey, according to the Division of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse.
Despite the preponderance of cocaine abuse, more than half of the 6,779 total state-subsidized slots for drug treatment in the state are for methadone maintenance programs, which are used by heroin addicts. When $6 million in Federal funds became available to the state this fall, the money was allocated to create 1,025 new methadone slots, compared with 184 new residential treatment slots. Before that, the state was supporting 495 adult and juvenile residential treatment beds.
The total state budget for drug treatment programs is $26.8 million for the 1990 fiscal year.
Doctors and social workers involved with drug rehabilitation say it is very difficult to cure either heroin or cocaine addiction. The two principal approaches, chemical substitutes and behavior modification, have limits, they say.
Programs designed to change an addict's way of life, which most experts agree is the ultimate goal of any treatment, have proved successful only with patients who show a strong willingness to stick with a regimented program. A chemical substitute program like the methadone program does not provide social supports and skill training to make addicts functioning citizens, experts say.
Further, no chemical substitute now exists for treatment of addiction to cocaine or crack, a smokable and highly potent form of cocaine.
At one of the state's largest methadone clinics, the Essex Substance Abuse Treatment Program in Newark, officials say that more than one in five patients test positive for cocaine abuse while receiving methadone.
''They want to get that high somehow,'' said Errol L. Lennard, director of the 800-patient program. Another 20 percent of the patients test positive for heroin or other drugs while on methadone, he said.
Despite its limitations, the use of methadone for treating heroin is supported by the state in part to curb the spread of AIDS by addicts who share needles and to curb crime by addicts who steal to support their habits.
Dr. Lennard defends the use of methadone with figures showing that roughly 90 percent of methadone patients stay out of jail while on that substance, which blocks the physical craving for and ability to get high from opiates.
Some addicts being treated at the program say they would rather wait in line for a cherry-flavored cup of methadone than steal to get money for heroin. ''It is just as bad as being hooked on heroin, but it is better than being out on the streets and having to cop and rip,'' said a patient who gave her name only as Sandra.
Dr. Lennard said he would like to experiment with possible chemical substitutes for cocaine that might work as methadone does for heroin, but other specialists in drug treatment disagree with that tactic.
''You can't help people by focusing on a drug,'' said David Kerr, executive director of Integrity House, a 20-year-old residential treatment program in Newark. ''You are treating people, not a drug. Whatever it is out there, they want to get high with that. We are in a flood of cocaine, and methadone is for heroin.''
Mr. Kerr added: ''What are we doing if 40 percent are using dope while we are treating them? I don't understand the concept.''
Experts agree that methadone is most effective when accompanied by counseling, and most of the state's methadone programs call for patients to be counseled once a week. But as caseloads have grown, an increasing number of people receiving methadone do so without any counseling at all, Dr. Lennard said.
And many specialists in drug treatment believe that while methadone may allow for a more socially acceptable way of treating a habit, most addicts do not successfully break their habits until they make significant changes in their way of life.
''When we are talking about rehabilitation, we are talking about helping people get their lives together,'' said Ethan A. Nadelman at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. ''A lot of that includes programs like job training.''
 
Opposition to Expansion
A major hurdle to creating more residential or outpatient treatment programs is the community opposition typically encountered when proposals are made to expand or site such programs.
Integrity House, which has a waiting list of 600 addicts for its 89 beds - one of the largest waiting lists in the state - is threatened with the loss of up to $1 million in Federal funds if it cannot find a site for expansion by February. The possible loss of funds comes after Integrity was denied permission by Newark to expand near its current Lincoln Park site.
Integrity House will lose 30 beds it manages in Reynolds Hospital in Union County next year when the hospital relocates to a new building west of Interstate 78 without keeping space for beds for drug treatment. But Integrity House is scheduled to manage an additional 100 beds at Meadowview Hospital in an isolated neighborhood of Secaucus by next summer.
''What community is waiting for us to come in?'' said Mr. Kerr, who is also president of the Therapeutic Communities of America, an association of 300 drug treatment centers like Integrity House. ''The Federal Government must take an active role to help us expand siting,'' he added, suggesting that a drug emergency be declared under which local zoning laws could be overruled.
Integrity House and other rehabilitation programs designed to change an addict's way of life are the best type of treatment programs, experts say. Integrity House provides regimented living conditions and offers training in simple housekeeping and other skills. It uses no chemical substitutes, relying on peer pressure instead to keep patients drug free, and provides trained counselors who are former addicts as role models.
The goal of Integrity House is to keep addicts 18 to 24 months, but the majority of its patients leave after four to five months. Many of them return to drugs for some period of time, Mr. Kerr acknowledges.
 
Questions on Effectiveness
The short stays raise questions about the effectiveness of the program, most of whose participants come straight from jail or a court referral as part of a probation program. A University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey study found that 60 percent of the men who stay at Integrity House for more than six months stay drug free for at least six months after they leave. But little more is known about long-term recidivism.
At a recent group session of a dozen residents at Integrity, more than half the men, who did not wish to be identified, said they were scared that they would not complete the program despite a desire to do so. Most said they were eager to get into Integrity but agreed that the regimented, high-pressure program, where men were asked to examine their weaknesses, was tough.
One man said he was still rejected by his family despite being in treatment after years in jail.
Another man replied: ''Don't expect anybody to say you're good and doing a great job. You think you accomplished something, but you are only doing what you are supposed to be doing.''
Speaking of his fear of not completing the program, another man said: ''You can't block that out. You got to be afraid.''
 
Encouraged to Enter Treatment
Across Newark, in an abandoned housing project where addicts congregate in vacant apartments, outreach workers from the Essex methadone program tried to encourage several to enter treatment. A number of addicts gathered around to hear Anthony Rios and Elizabeth Charriez explain an offer for free methadone treatment if addicts participate in a survey of intravenous drug users about acquired immune deficiency syndrome, drug use and sexual behavior.
Angelo Vega said he might go. ''I'm a mainliner,'' he said. ''I did methadone, but I'm active again.'' He said residential drug-free programs were better than outpatient ones. ''They help because you are in a closed environment,'' he said. ''But you got to make yourself strong when you are out in the jungle.''
Another addict, who identified himself only as George, said: ''I don't want that methadone. It's the same as going from one drug to another.'' Drug specialists acknowledge that much is still to be learned about how to reach people who need treatment and about what types of treatment are most successful.
''Rehabilitation is not a one-shot deal,'' Mr. Kerr of Integrity House emphasized. ''A lot of this is growing up. A lot of people are not ready to grow up. Treatment gives a lot of people a good shot at changing a life style. That's the most it can do.''
Dr. Miller also had a word of caution: ''The social, economic and health crises have demanded answers before we have done the research. We are desperately trying to come up with something. But there are no magic bullets.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of clients at a methadone clinic at the Essex Substance Abuse Treatment Program in Newark; Erroll L. Lennard; David Kerr; residents at Integrity House preparing dinner (Pg. 16) (NYT/Frank C. Dougherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (69%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; HEROIN; COCAINE; CRACK (COCAINE) SUBSTANCE ABUSE (96%); HEROIN (94%); COCAINE (94%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (92%); DRUG POLICY (91%); RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); HOSPITALS (74%); DENTISTRY (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: HOFF, JEFFREY



808 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 11, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: What a Circus!

BYLINE: By Joseph Nocera; Joseph Nocera is a columnist for Esquire magazine.

DATELINE: NORTHAMPTON, Mass.

 BODY:
Aw, come on, everybody, lighten up a little. It wasn't that bad. The decade, I mean. You know which one I'm talking about. The one that's going to end tonight. The (shudder, shudder) 80's.
It could have been a lot worse. There were no wars in which large numbers of American soldiers died. The economy was surprisingly resilient, especially given the almost non-stop prophecies of doom. 
Yes, there was a nasty recession, but it happened so early that hardly anyone considers it to be part of the 80's anymore. (In this way, decades are like every 100-greatest-albums-of-all-time list you've ever read; the events that loom the largest tend to be the ones that happened most recently.) Indeed, as the 80's come to a close, there seem to be things positively worth cheering. The cold war seems over. Eastern Europe is rushing, thrillingly, toward democracy. The U.S. savings rate, so abysmal for most of the decade, is up, and a compelling case can be made that it will keep going.
Nobody talks about Julian Schnabel anymore. Jim and Tammy Faye aren't on television. Certain financier types - Charles Keating, Robert Campeau, Ivan Boesky, to name but three - are getting their deserved comeuppance. Have you noticed that there is a lot of schadenfreude in the air right now?
One thing that's struck me about much of the end-of-the-decade gnashing of teeth is the degree to which the central characters - the ones who are always pointed to in essays like this one as having ''symbolized'' the decade - were remote from most of our lives. If the 80's can be described as a three-ring circus, then we were there mostly as spectators.
Look up there on the high wire: It's Ronald Reagan. But what are all those numbers he's juggling? (Oh, of course: the deficit.) There's Donald Trump, in ring number one, with a true marvel of the age, the World's Most Ostentatious Yacht.
Over in ring number three, isn't that Henry Kravis? What's that he's peddling? His Amazing LBO Lotion. (''The Corporate Cure-All,'' it says on the label.) In the center ring right now, you can see John Marion, chief auctioneer for Sotheby's, selling ''Irises.''
''Going, going, gone!'' he shouts. ''Sold to Mr. Alan Bond for $54.3 million!'' (Though actually it wasn't. Mr. Marion's show turned out to be an illusionist's act.) Isn't that Michael Milken on the flying trapeze, tossing junk bonds to Frank Lorenzo? In the center ring, the Queen herself, Leona Helmsley, has just arrived. But who is that she's yelling at? (It's Mr. Trump again. He won't leave the stage even when his act gets old.) Quite a spectacle it was, all right. But what connection did the Trump yacht have to most of us? Not much, I would contend.
The second thing that's striking about the end-of-the-80's moaning and groaning is the degree to which it reflects not so much bad things that happened but bad things that haven't happened (but will any minute now). We were nervous for most of this decade. We kept waiting for the other shoe to drop. After all, that's what all the experts kept saying would happen.
The Federal budget deficit was going to bankrupt us if we didn't do something about it, remember? (But it didn't.) The 1987 market crash was going to lead to catastrophe; that's what all the charts showed. (But the charts were wrong.) The Japanese were going to either buy us all out or sell us all out, depending on who was doing the hand-wringing. (But they haven't.) And, of course, America was headed straight to hell in a handbasket if we didn't stop consuming so much and producing so little, if we didn't start caring more about the national interest and less about our own special interest, if we didn't start thinking less about the short term and more about the long term.
But let's face it: We didn't do any of these things. And yet, the other shoe never dropped. I'm not saying it won't drop eventually, and that the doomsayers won't have the last laugh. But it didn't happen in the 80's.
Far from being discouraged about this state of affairs, I'm happy about it. It means we've been given a second chance - a chance to keep the other shoe from ever dropping. I think it's a chance most of us want; in fact, I think that explains a lot of our obsessing about the decade.
I don't believe that Americans lost all their moral bearing just because Donald Trump's book was a best-seller. I would argue that if our values were as completely bankrupt as we're told they are, we would all be rejoicing, instead of bemoaning, what the 80's wrought.
We just got carried away a little, caught up in the spectacle. Now we feel badly about it, perhaps even a little guilty. To the extent that this end-of-the-decade business has any value at all, surely that value lies in the potential for redemption, in the desire to do better next time.
If we wanted it to, ''next time'' could mean tomorrow. I mean that literally. Decades, at least in the sense that we've come to think of them, don't necessarily come to a close at the stroke of midnight on the last day of the 10th year. But the 80's could end that way if we chose.
If, tomorrow morning, we decided to take a kind of national New Decade's Resolution, in which we vowed to spend a little less flashily and save a little more rigorously, to be a little less self-absorbed and a little more productive, to make the kind of national sacrifices needed to get the deficit under control and regain our sense of national purpose - if we did all those things we might really have a chance to come away from the excesses of the 80's more or less unscathed. It seems worth trying, anyway, doesn't it?
It was fun, watching the 80's. Who can deny it? But now (we can tell ourselves) the show is over. The circus has left town. We enjoyed it - oh, yes we did! And now? Now it's time to get back to work.
Happy 1990.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED EIGHTIES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); COLD WAR (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SAVINGS RATES (71%); 

PERSON: NOCERA, JOSEPH RONALD REAGAN (52%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); MICHAEL MILKEN (50%); HENRY KRAVIS (50%); 

 
