

601 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: The Big Guns Unload

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
SOON after the collapse of Lehman Brothers last fall and the humbling of New York's financial services industry, a wave of luxury listings appeared on the market, many for the homes of troubled princes of finance. 
 Now as prices fall and inventory rises, a second wave of trophy apartments is hitting the market, listed not by bankers but by wealthy corporate executives weakened by the recession and credit crisis. 
 Two years ago, Jon Asgeir Johannesson, a businessman from Iceland, and his longtime girlfriend (and, now, wife), Ingibjorg Palmadottir, bought a full-floor co-op apartment for just over $10 million at 50 Gramercy Park North, a glass building developed by Ian Schrager at the Gramercy Park Hotel on East 21st Street. 
 They liked it so much that they came back a few months later and bought the duplex penthouse above it with large terraces overlooking Gramercy Park for $14 million, including $4 million to buy out the contract of another buyer. They paid cash, according to property records, and hired an architect to design a staircase to combine the places into one 7,000-square-foot apartment with 2,000 square feet of terraces.
 Mr. Johannesson had turned his family company, the Baugur Group, into a major presence in retailing, with investments in more than 3,700 stores in England, Iceland and Scandinavia, as well as in real estate and media. 
 Over the summer, Mr. Johannesson expressed interest in buying the Saks department store chain. He cultivates a hip image, with long flowing hair and black clothes, and according to a recent profile in The Times of London, furnished his London office with a 10-foot statue of a Viking with a Fender Stratocaster guitar strapped to his back. 
 But as the economy of tiny Iceland faltered, Mr. Johannesson's empire began to crack. Earlier this month, Baugur Group's British assets were placed under the control of an administrator, because of large unpaid debts to Icelandic banks.
 Two weeks ago, as the company came under pressure, Mr. Johannesson put the top two stories of his Manhattan penthouse on the market for $25 million. The listing agent, Tim Cass of the Corcoran Group, said that the 4,235-square-foot penthouse had been priced to be competitive with a slightly smaller penthouse built by Julian Schnabel, the artist, in a pink extension atop a building known as the Palazzo Chupi at 360 West 11th Street in the Village. That apartment was listed for $32 million in the spring, and after two changes in brokers and several price cuts, it is now available for $22 million.
 The Johannesson penthouse is one of seven listings in a building with only 20 apartments. This is an unusually large number of resales, especially for new construction introduced with great fanfare only a few years ago. Brokers said that the spurt in listings, including two full-floor apartments, probably reflected the weak economy, as well as a newly discovered aversion to ostentatious wealth on the part of some wealthy people during the downturn. 
 A day before that penthouse went on the market, Frank A. Cassou listed his 18-foot-wide town house on East 78th Street between Madison and Park Avenues for $15 million, with Louise Beit of Sotheby's International Realty.
 The town house has five freshly renovated stories, five fireplaces and 4,600 square feet of space. 
 Mr. Cassou is the executive vice president, chief legal counsel and secretary of NextWave Wireless, a company with interests in advanced technology. It warned last summer that it might soon run out of money. 
 The stock in NextWave has collapsed, from more than $7 a share in May to as little as 17 cents last week, leading to several shareholder lawsuits that named Mr. Cassou as a defendant along with other top executives. In December, Mr. Cassou sold 250,000 shares of his company stock for 8 cents a share, or a total of $20,000. In 2007 they were worth more than $2.5 million. Mr. Cassou did not respond to several telephone messages.
 Despite declines in the luxury market, the value of Manhattan real estate has so far held up better than many other investments. Mr. Cassou and his wife, Gabrielle could still end up with a considerable gain. They paid $5.45 million for the house in 2003.
 In October 2007, the couple bought a two-bedroom apartment at the Plaza Hotel for about $4.75 million. But last spring, as the NextWave situation deteriorated, they put it back on the market. It sold last August for just about what they had paid for it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 50 Gramercy Park North (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RETAILERS (70%)

COMPANY: BAUGUR GROUP HF (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522294 SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (68%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ICELAND (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



602 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: One-Man Bands, and One Woman on Triangle

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
Loney Dear
 Loney Dear, the one-man studio band of the Swedish songwriter Emil Svanangen, sounds frantically, claustrophobically forlorn on its fifth album, ''Dear John'' (Polyvinyl). ''I am lost like I was the day before,'' one song admits. A devotee of elaborate pop from the Beach Boys to a-ha, Mr. Svanangen sings plaintive confessions in a tenor so high and sweet it's almost androgynous. The melodies are exquisite, and with each verse he surrounds them with more and more parts, creating pop crescendos of dizzying ingenuity: whistling, harmonizing, stepping up the percussion, simulating horn and string sections, making synthesizers pulsate and flutter all around. Is all the superstructure a flailing attempt to draw attention from the outside world or fortification against it? In Loney Dear's solitary workshop, it may be both.
 Ruthie Foster 
 True love reigns through hard times and heartache on ''The Truth According to Ruthie Foster'' (Blue Corn Music). Ms. Foster, a songwriter based in Austin, Tex., has applied her voice to rock, folk and blues in a recording career that dates back to 1997. She settles into Southern soul on this album, recorded at the venerable Ardent Studios in Memphis and backed by local stalwarts (including the Memphis Horns and the keyboardists Jim Dickinson and Charles Hodges) and soul-loving visitors. Ms. Foster rides grooves that sound just right, retro or not, from the aching slow blues of ''Tears of Pain'' to the funk of ''Dues Paid in Full'' to the country soul of ''When It Don't Come Easy'' (a Patty Griffin song). She sounds long-suffering, forthright, resilient and thoroughly at home. 
 Phosphorescent
 Willie Nelson is anointed as a forefather of freak-folk on ''To Willie'' (Dead Oceans) an album of his songs remade by Phosphorescent, the nom-de-band of Matthew Houck. These aren't the songs that show up regularly in Mr. Nelson's upbeat stage sets. They're his bleak, plainspoken studies of addiction (''Reasons to Quit''), infidelity (''It's Not Supposed to Be That Way''), excess (''I Gotta Get Drunk'') and remorse (''Heartaches of a Fool'') -- the aftermaths of self-destruction and betrayal. The Phosphorescent band plays them as if floating in a hangover haze: the songs are still recognizably Mr. Nelson's, but slow and woozy, with meandering guitars and scratchy, diffident vocals. ''To Willie'' is more than a curatorial feat; Phosphorescent reaches down to the pain. 
 Christine Balfa
 Cajun goes minimal on ''Christine Balfa Plays the Triangle'' (Valcour), which is exactly that: an album of solo triangle (plus, on ''The Balfa Waltz,'' an enthusiastic, wordless child). It exposes the parts usually buried behind a band's other instruments. Ms. Balfa has a bayou pedigree; her father was the renowned Cajun fiddler Dewey Balfa, and she leads her own band, Balfa Toujours. In Cajun songs, the triangle's role is a repetitive one, keeping exactly one beat for the full length of a song. But there are also nuances; damped and open, the triangle can clank or ping or ring, with shifting overtones. Ms. Balfa won't change the mind of anyone who thinks there are actually only two Cajun songs, a waltz and a two-step (though different waltzes start their pattern on different beats). But these rigorous, hypnotic tracks could build admiration for the selfless, essential toil of rhythm sections everywhere. 
 N.A.S.A.
 Talk about connections: N.A.S.A., the production team of Squeak E. Clean (Sam Spiegel) and DJ Zegon (Ze Gonzales), enlisted Kanye West, David Byrne, Tom Waits, Santogold, Chuck D, four Wu-Tang Clan members and two dozen others to sing and rap on its debut album, ''The Spirit of Apollo'' (Anti-). N.A.S.A. stands for North America South America, and its tracks are a three-dimensional, ever-shifting combination of Brazilian, American and even African funk. All those guests have a lot on their minds -- the economy, the history of hip-hop, their own skills -- and the N.A.S.A. team makes sure no one wears out a welcome. Chirpy pop choruses punctuate raps, and the beat stays brisk and unpredictable; one track is built around booping touch tones and dial tones. The album is so lightheadedly inclusive that when George Clinton rasps, ''There's a party and you're all invited,'' it's easy to believe.
 'Dark Was the Night'
 Sure, indie-rock is cliquish and overpopulated with bookish blogger types. Yet that ingrown environment keeps generating unabashedly thoughtful, ambitious music. ''Dark Was the Night'' (Red Hot/4AD), a two-CD benefit compilation for the AIDS-awareness group the Red Hot Organization, was produced by Aaron Dessner and Bryce Dessner of the National, and its lineup is full of New York City musicians (Yeasayer, Dirty Projectors, Beirut, Grizzly Bear, Blonde Redhead, David Byrne) and their friends on the indie circuit (Arcade Fire, Andrew Bird, Bon Iver, Iron & Wine). Unlike other Red Hot collections, ''Dark Was the Night'' isn't a tribute or theme album. Yet perhaps with thoughts of AIDS as a backdrop, it does revolve loosely around sex and death. The first disc broods over mortality in remakes of Nina Simone (by My Brightest Diamond), Nick Drake (the Books featuring Jose Gonzalez) and Bob Dylan (Antony with Bryce Dessner) and in new songs like the haunted Grizzly Bear-Feist collaboration ''Service Bell'' and the free-associative Sufjan Stevens extravaganza ''You Are the Blood.'' The second, more hit-or-miss disc turns upbeat for three-chord (but verbally convoluted) songs about romance, then drifts back to indie introspection. Self-consciousness pervades all, but where would indie be without it? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Loney Dear (the Swedish songwriter Emil Svanangen)
above right, Phosphorescent (the recording persona of Matthew Houck)
below right, Christine Balfa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMI MUSIC/PARLAPHONE
AMANDA YATES
 LUCIUS FONTENOT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SONG WRITING (90%); MUSIC (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



603 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Women, Haircuts And the Price Of Self-Esteem

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
WHEN Ann Snitow, a professor of literature and gender studies at the New School for Social Research, had her curly hair straightened a year ago, the compliments from friends were lavish and immediate. Since then, Professor Snitow, 65, has been a regular customer at Marie Bove Salon on East 20th Street, near Broadway, where she returns about once a week for maintenance.
 She was swathed in one of the salon's brown robes on Wednesday, sitting on one of its revolving chairs, when she was asked to explain the place of a good haircut in a professional New York woman's life, a pressing question in an age of tenuous employment and high costs. An assistant was sweeping up, and stylists were resting between customers by the shampooing station, behind two Ionic columns. 
 ''It's part of identity,'' Professor Snitow began, but acknowledged, ''It's not the same as food and rent and mortgage.''
 While she is sensitive to consequences of the economy and aware of how bad things can get in a depression, she said, she also knows the importance of presentation, especially in Manhattan, where so much of life is lived in public and spending on grooming feels a little less discretionary.
 ''Things would have to be even worse than they are now for me to cut my haircuts,'' she said. ''I don't treat it as a luxury. I treat it as being an acceptable, professional person.''
 The cost of keeping up may soon rise, if only slightly. As part of his proposed budget, Governor Paterson hopes to expand the state sales tax to apply to haircuts, as the city's tax already does. It would add about 4 percent to the cost of a trim, and would come at a time when hairdressers say they are seeing some customers less frequently or are hearing fewer requests for pricier services like coloring. 
 It would seem a worrisome development for stylists and salons. But at Marie Bove, which is near the middle of the pricing scale in the city, and where the average cut or color costs $150 to $200, haircutters said they were not too worried. Dino LaValle, a nine-year veteran of the Manhattan hairdressing scene who works at the salon, said that although any new cost would be a cause for concern, there were certain eternal truths. 
 ''People are vain,'' he said. ''They still want to look good. No matter what, their hair is going to grow, and if they like you, they're going to come to you to cut it.''
 Lisa Greco, a manager of the salon, has seen signs of strain: Some unemployed customers arrive for their appointments armed with resumes for their hairdressers to pass along discreetly to better-connected clients. Marina Moldavsky, a stylist, said that some customers who pay $85 for a haircut were refugees from more expensive salons where they were paying $150. And they are less likely to arrive in a taxi. ''I had a lady, she walked 20 blocks today,'' she said.
 Sian Griffiths, a 26-year-old Englishwoman who had come for a quick appointment before boarding a flight to London, knows the financial crisis well; she was laid off from JPMorgan Chase & Company in November. People who are like her and her former co-workers, she said, make up the bulk of the customer base at a midrange salon like Marie Bove, she said. It seems inevitable, she said, that hairdressers, who depend on tips for a major part of their income, will begin to suffer as their clients in the financial industry get poorer.
 Then, sounding a bit like the Wall Streeter she was, she said, ''I just think in an economic crisis, sales taxes are a really flawed way of generating revenue because sales taxes decrease spending.''
 Her blond hair bouncing as she spoke, Ms. Griffiths said she felt for the stylists.
 At the moment, though, the customers may not mind so much. Professor Snitow, for one, said that while running out of money would keep her away, an 8.625 percent tax would not.
 ''I'll put it this way,'' she said. ''I'll save my money on hair when it doesn't matter what women look like anymore. When the feminist revolution is entirely achieved, I'll save money on hair.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); LITERATURE (78%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); SALES TAX (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



604 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Big Ideas, Grand Plans, Modest Budgets

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
THERE is no shortage of big dreams or grand schemes as the United States struggles to rebuild itself for the 21st century. But many of the most ambitious projects in the country -- a representative sample of which are listed below -- stand to get only modest amounts of money, if any, from the economic stimulus package that Congress approved on Friday. 
 From a public works perspective, the $789 billion stimulus package is unlikely to transform the physical fabric of the nation as the New Deal did when it built hundreds of airports, tens of thousands of bridges, and hundreds of thousands of buildings and miles of roads. 
 The final plan devotes more than $100 billion to public works projects -- but that is only a fraction of the $2.2 trillion that the American Society of Civil Engineers says is needed to put the nation's infrastructure into a state of good repair. And much of it is likely to be spent on small needs sprinkled throughout the 50 states -- repaving a road here, painting a bridge there -- rather than on bigger, more transformative, but slower projects. To put the scope of the spending into perspective, think of it this way: the bill will devote about $50 billion to transportation projects, which is about what the federal government authorizes for transportation every year. The money will be welcome, but hardly enough to transform transportation. And since many local governments have curtailed their own construction programs to save money, in some places the stimulus may end up simply keeping public works at their pre-recession pace.
 Advocates say they are worried that the plan represents a missed opportunity. ''The equation shouldn't be do we do short-term investment or do we do long-term investment, because we need both,'' said Felix Rohatyn, the financier whose new book, ''Bold Endeavors: How Our Government Built America, and Why It Must Rebuild Now'' (Simon & Schuster, 2009), uses examples like the building of the Erie Canal, the transcontinental railroad and the Interstate System to argue that the nation needs to build for the future with more ambitious, better-planned projects today. ''Infrastructure is an investment, not an expense.''
 Californians want finally to bring high-speed rail to the United States. Planners want to build bridges to Canada from Detroit, a tunnel for trucks to the Port of Miami and a new one for trains between New York and New Jersey. Transit systems want to expand, ports want more capacity and freight train companies want to untangle bottlenecks on the tracks. 
 But even with the biggest push for infrastructure spending in years, most of these big-ticket projects are unlikely to get very far from the stimulus alone. Some may not qualify for aid at all. Others will get modest down payments, which they hope will be enough to keep them going. A few may see enough federal money to become reality. Here is a look at 11 ambitious infrastructure projects around the country -- some of which have been in the planning stages for decades, and others of which have been identified recently as pressing needs by officials in their regions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WANTED: JOBS President Obama promoted his stimulus plan last week in Elkhart, Ind., where the jobless rate is 15.3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRAINS (70%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (65%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); APPROVALS (56%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



605 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Economy Downsizes Nascar's Legacy

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
When the green flag waves Sunday afternoon marking the start of the Daytona 500 and the beginning of Nascar's 60th season, the cars will roar down the front stretch, the fans will stand and cheer, and all will seem normal in a spectacle that is part sport and part cultural phenomenon.
 But this is not business as usual in Nascar. Change has come in 2009, not by popular demand but by economic necessity. And it has cut deeply into the fabric of the sport. The new Nascar is leaner, and suddenly missing pieces of its history.
 For the first time in 60 years, there will not be a Petty Enterprises racecar or a driver named Petty on the racetrack. 
 Dale Earnhardt Inc., started by the seven-time champion Dale Earnhardt, will join a storied list of teams that can no longer compete.
 The famed Wood Brothers will race a partial schedule this year.
 As much as 50 percent of the field for Sunday's race will have experienced some significant off-season change.
 ''The economy changed everything,'' the seven-time champion Richard Petty said last month as he tried to explain the off-season decision to close Petty Enterprises, begun in 1949 by his father, Lee Petty. The team merged with Gillett Evernham Motorsports and will race under the name Richard Petty Motorsports.
 Petty might as well have been speaking for all of the sport, which has laid off workers, struggled to sell tickets and lost corporate sponsors. Daytona International Speedway was coming close to a sellout last week, but has had to reduce prices for thousands of tickets.
 Other tracks have reduced prices as well, but as the series shifts to various cities, empty seats are expected to be plentiful.
 In the garage, mergers and alliances have been forged as sponsors have disappeared and teams have come together to combine resources. Reports estimate that as many as 1,000 employees have been laid off throughout the industry.
 ''I think it brings us all back to earth,'' said Rick Hendrick, the owner of Hendrick Motorsports. ''There's just so many people that have never been through anything like this. So I think it will teach us all a lesson, not just in Nascar and racing, but just in the way the public goes about the way they spend their money.''
 Hendrick employs the three-time defending champion Jimmie Johnson; the four-time Cup winner Jeff Gordon; the sport's most popular driver, Dale Earnhardt Jr.; and the beloved Mark Martin. It remains one of Nascar's most well-financed operations, but other teams have not been as successful. 
 Petty Enterprises competed in the first Nascar race, which was in Charlotte, N.C., in 1949. In 1959, Lee Petty won the inaugural Daytona 500. Richard Petty won 200 races and 7 Cup championships, but the team has not won a race since 1999.
 The team lost its primary sponsor, Cheerios, and was not able to replace it, thus the merger with Gillett Evernham Motorsports. The team will be run by G.E.M. management, with Petty's input on the two racecars he brings to the organization, including the iconic No. 43.
 ''It's sad to see somebody like Richard Petty have the problems that they had financially,'' Ken Bloom, 45, a longtime fan said from Naples, Fla., said during Thursday's qualifying races at Daytona International Speedway. ''I think it's a good move on their part. I think it's going to allow Richard Petty to stay in the sport. It's important for anybody that's a Nascar fan, they need Richard Petty, and I think it's gonna give an opportunity to put a car in victory lane under his name. With four cars now, he has a better chance.''
 With the drivers Kasey Kahne, Elliott Sadler, Reed Sorenson and A. J. Allmendinger, there is no room for Kyle Petty, who has raced from 1979 to 2008. This will be the first season a Petty has not raced in Nascar's premier series in the sport's history.
 Loss of sponsorship cost Dale Earnhardt Inc. as well, although its problems began in 2007 with the decision by Dale Jr. to sign with Hendrick after a failed bid to gain control of D.E.I. Asked if he was upset by the loss, Earnhardt said, ''It don't bother me.''''People come and go in your life and you don't always get things the way you want them and that's just another case of it,'' he said.
 D.E.I., which has only one racecar sponsored in 2009, has merged with Chip Ganassi Racing and will be called Earnhardt Ganassi Racing.
 ''I think I understood there was a certain amount of responsibility that goes along with having that name attached to your team,'' Ganassi said. ''There are car owners and there are people in the garage area that want to see a success made of the team that Dale Earnhardt started and they want to keep an eye on that. That's nice.''
 Wood Brothers Racing, which has competed in Nascar since 1950, lost much of its sponsorship of its No. 21 Ford after last season. The team will run 12 races this year. The team owners, Glen Wood and his children Eddie, Len and Kim, hope to be fully financed again in 2010.
 ''I wouldn't call it heartbreaking,'' Len Wood said. ''Heartbreaking would be losing your team and not being Wood Brothers anymore. That would be heartbreaking for me. We just got to use our head about this. We're not gone. We're still us.''
 Wood said Nascar's marketing arm had tried to help the team sell the sport to potential sponsors. But Nascar officials said there was little more that could be done for struggling teams in a down economy, including others like Bill Davis Racing that closed shop this off-season as well.
 ''It is disappointing to see the traditional teams that have been with us like the Pettys or the Wood Brothers since the beginning,'' Nascar's chairman and chief executive, Brian France, said last month. ''You know, you're seeing the economy has spotlighted teams that were struggling mostly in performance on the track, and now that sponsorship is even more difficult to come by. That economic model is under a lot of pressure with sponsorship that is contracting.''
 Nascar also points to an upside of the upheaval. New teams have emerged, with drivers like Jeremy Mayfield and Scott Riggs able to make the field for the Daytona 500 despite their teams' being in business only a few weeks.
 Still, it is too early to tell how the changes will affect the racing. Some argue that the competition will be just as strong or stronger despite the reality there will be fewer fully financed teams.
 ''You're going to see more wins spread out throughout the garage,'' the driver Jeff Burton said, pointing to the Nascar-designed racecar that he says has leveled the competition. ''Now at the same time, it's clear, too, that 37th, 38th, 39th isn't going to be as competitive as it was last year.''
 There is little question the fields will be smaller this season despite 56 entries for the 43-car field at Daytona. If there are not enough regular competitors, field fillers will take their place with some concern there will be ''start and park'' teams that show up with racecars just for the payout -- parking quickly rather than completing races.
 However it plays out, there is one guarantee for 2009. Without Petty Enterprises or a Petty driver in the field, without D.E.I., without the Wood Brothers most weeks, this will be a season unlike any other in Nascar history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Petty, right, has merged his race team, started by his father in 1949, with another team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON SMITH/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: JOINING FORCES: The economic downturn has caused some notable racing teams to merge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (91%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); LAYOFFS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (54%)

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (54%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (54%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



606 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; GOOD EATING THE BOWERY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants With Range

 BODY:
In recent years, the Bowery has been increasingly a study in contrasts. Luxury apartments and shops share space with soup kitchens and hostels, remnants of the area's skid row past. These restaurants reflect the area's ethnic and economic diversity. 
 Congee Bowery
 (212) 766-2828; 207 Bowery (Delancey Street), Lower East Side; $; $25 and Under: 12/10/08.
 This multilevel Chinese place has shark fins on display by the register and a private karaoke hall in the basement. The large menu includes a crisp and succulent house-special chicken dish -- a whole roast chicken for two, splayed open and varnished with soy sauce. 
 Double Crown 
 (212) 254-0350; 316 Bowery (Bleecker Street), NoHo; $$; Review: 11/26/08.
 Double Crown, which opened in September, indulges in the glories of culinary cross-pollination, specifically a British-Indo-Asian fusion. While the menu does combine British and Asian traditions, it doesn't always insist on doing so in a single dish. The restaurant lets bangers and mash (sausage with potatoes) be bangers and mash and lets curry laksa (noodle soup) be curry laksa, as vibrantly seasoned as it might be in a restaurant not wearing any crowns at all. 
 Food Shing
 (212) 219-8223; 2 East Broadway (Bowery), Chinatown; $; $25 and Under: 12/12/07.
 With two entrances to this Chinese noodle place, one on East Broadway and another facing Chatham Square, there's an in-and-out, breeze-through vibe to this restaurant. There's nothing to fuss over, no appetizers, no side dishes and, for most diners, no beverage. But the hand-pulled noodles, the excellent soup and its prices are good enough to keep you coming back. 
 Gemma 
 (212) 505-9100; in the Bowery Hotel, 335 Bowery (Third Street), East Village; $$$; Review: 9/26/07.
 At this candle-lighted trattoria, there's plenty to savor among the pasta dishes and main courses: pappardelle with oxtail ragout; a fillet of grilled salmon served with white asparagus; and a buttery branzino, roasted and served on a cedar plank.
 Mercat 
 (212) 529-8600; 45 Bond Street (Bowery), NoHo; $$$; Review: 7/4/07.
 Some wonderful food, some clangorous acoustics: These are the defining traits of Mercat, which pays tribute to the cooking of Catalonia. Mercat's menu encourages sampling with modestly portioned dishes like chickpeas with blood sausage; sauteed spinach; short noodles with squid ink and cuttlefish; and Spanish cheeses and hams.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FISHES (71%); CHEESE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



607 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CRUISE ISSUE WHAT'S NEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2740 words

HEADLINE: Navigating Shifting Tides and Waves of Interest

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
THE ships are newer and bigger. The onboard movies glow in 3-D, even lurch in 4-D. Massages and body wraps await in the spa. Yet the cruise may be cheaper than last year's -- or, at least, cheaper than you were expecting. Setting sail in a recession, cruise lines are not only slashing prices but also adapting to travelers' economic nervousness by redesigning their itineraries with shorter trips, closer to home, to offer more attainable options.
 North American ports will be busier, and fewer ships will be setting out on multiweek voyages to faraway places like Australia. It's all part of convincing travelers that cruises are still affordable vacations.
 ''We are talking more about value than we have in the past,'' said Brad Ball, a spokesman for Silversea Cruises, a small luxury ship line, which added shorter cruises in the Mediterranean and Baltic Seas this year. ''We are offering more seven- and nine-day options. With a seven-day cruise, you add in two days of travel time and are really only away from the office for about a week.'' 
 At the same time, cruisers who want plenty of luxury and adventure, recession or no recession, will easily find it. Big new ships, ordered in palmier days, are hitting the waves equipped to serve the highest-paying passengers with lavishly appointed staterooms spacious enough for a small family reunion. Specialized itineraries continue to proliferate, giving travelers an intensive focus on topics from tennis to global warming. And many cruise lines are actively developing itineraries in Europe and the Middle East aimed at building a more international cruise audience.
 Welcome to America
 A Carnival Cruise Lines ship, the Carnival Liberty, was once scheduled for a summer of Mediterranean sailings but is now staying put in Miami and won't go farther than the Caribbean. Some brand-new ships, like the Carnival Dream and Royal Caribbean's Oasis of the Seas, will stick close to North America. It's all part of a larger trend in cruising this year. Many ship lines are reining in deployments in Europe and far-flung destinations like the South Pacific and Australia, and itineraries closer to home are getting a new look.
 Small luxury operators and big mass-market players alike are offering more trips that don't last longer than a week. And some voyages that once began and ended in different cruise ports now operate out of one city round-trip, a change that cruise lines expect will trim passengers' airfare costs.
 ''The exotic cruises are really suffering this year,'' said Carolyn Spencer Brown, editor in chief of CruiseCritic.com, an online cruise magazine. ''Everyone is pulling back. Australia and New Zealand is dying because it's too far, too expensive and too long of a trip for the younger traveler.'' 
 Passengers will see more options from ports easily reached from the Eastern Seaboard. Bermuda, with a new cruise terminal in King's Wharf, will be getting sailings from Norwegian Cruise Line, which runs trips from five United States ports. Holland America will add Bermuda sailings in 2010.
 Carnival is starting year-round service out of Baltimore in April. Trips of six to eight days will include stops in the Bahamas, the Turks and Caicos, and Florida. Celebrity Cruises, which canceled all its itineraries in Australia and New Zealand that had been scheduled for the end of 2009, is repositioning a ship to Baltimore in November to sail trips of 9 and 12 nights to the Caribbean. Fares start at around $700. Twelve-night voyages stop in St. Thomas, St. Croix, St. Kitts, St. Johns, Antigua and St. Maarten, while nine-night trips stick to the Bahamas and Key West. 
 In the fall, look for new itineraries to New England and Canada from Costa Cruises and Silversea. Silversea, which hasn't sailed in this region in three years, is offering a 10-day trip in October from Montreal, starting at $4,936, with stops in Halifax and in Bar Harbor, Me. Costa will run trips out of New York and Quebec that stop in Newport, R.I.; Boston; and Bar Harbor.
 A handful of new and larger ships are moving to the West Coast. For sailings to Mexico, Carnival is putting a larger ship in Long Beach, Calif., and Royal Caribbean is moving its 3,114-passenger Mariner of the Seas to Los Angeles for seven-day cruises starting this month. Cruise West added 18 departure dates for its eight-day Columbia River cruises out of Portland, Ore., that goes through the Columbia River Gorge and makes stops in places like Hood River, Ore., and Walla Walla, Wash. 
 Half of Carnival Cruise Lines' fleet is on itineraries of five days or less, and this year the line is putting larger and newer ships in both New Orleans and Mobile, Ala. Ships out of both ports run a series of four- and five-day cruises; trips out of New Orleans visit Progreso on the Yucatan Peninsula and Cozumel, and include two full days at sea.
 Even the adventure cruise line Lindblad Expeditions, best known for multiweek trips to Antarctica and the Galapagos Islands guided by on-board naturalists, is offering shorter trips in North America. It first offered four-night cruises last year and is selling those itineraries again on trips to Baja California, San Francisco Bay and the Pacific Northwest. A five-day trip in Baja California, out of La Paz, Mexico, starts at $1,990 in December, about $1,200 less than the eight-day itinerary. 
 Maiden Voyages
 New ships, ordered in recession-free days, will emerge this year from all corners of the market -- river cruise operators, small luxury lines and mass-market giants. In line with the trends of the past few years, when plusher and bigger were the rule, many of them will be huge and luxurious. 
 Royal Caribbean will introduce the 5,400-passenger Oasis of the Seas, said to be the largest cruise ship in the world, late in the year. Oasis of the Seas will have an 82-foot zip line, a hand-carved carousel and a new category of guest rooms called loft suites. The largest loft suites, complete with outdoor dining areas, sleep six and still have room for a baby grand piano. The ship will begin regular seven-night sailings out of Fort Lauderdale to St. Thomas, St. Maarten and the Bahamas on Dec. 5 -- fares start at $1,739 but drop to $969 in January 2010. 
 For spa lovers, this will be a very good year. 
 Two new ships from Costa Cruises, the Luminosa, coming in May, and the Pacifica, coming in June, will have some staterooms that allow guests to access a spa via a private stairway or elevator. Two spa treatments are built into the cost of these rooms, along with meals at a restaurant serving healthy cuisine. This summer the Luminosa will be based in Amsterdam for Baltic and Scandinavian cruises while the Pacifica will sail in the western Mediterranean. 
 Equinox, a Celebrity Cruises ship taking its first cruise in August, will have AquaClass rooms, accommodations with upgraded robes and slippers, in-room aromatherapy and free access to the relaxation room and sauna of the ship's spa. The ship starts sailings in Europe, stopping at ports in Israel, before heading to Fort Lauderdale in the winter for Caribbean cruises.
 Carnival is also diving in, with the 3,646-passenger Carnival Dream in September. Its spa staterooms will come with priority reservations at the spa, free access to fitness classes and the steam and sauna of the thermal suite. 
 Even smaller ships are focusing on improving the spa experience. In June, the Yachts of Seabourn will launch the Seabourn Odyssey, the largest ship in its fleet, complete with an 11,400-square-foot spa and two private spa villas available for half-day rentals. ''It is three times the size of our other ships but will carry only twice the number of guests, so it's left us a lot of room to play with,'' said Bruce Good, a spokesman for Seabourn. ''We don't have the space on the other ships for this kind of spa.'' The two spa villas on the upper deck can be reserved by, for example, small groups for a half-day of massages followed by lunch and lounging on a private wraparound deck. The Odyssey will sail out of Athens, Venice and Istanbul in the summer and fall, before moving to the Caribbean.
 In other new ships this year, travelers can expect larger staterooms and an expansion of premium offerings. Silversea's Silver Spirit, launching in December, will be the line's largest ship to date. It is adding more of its Silver Suites and will increase the size by about 100 square feet. The first cruise will sail in Europe, making stops in the south of Spain and Casablanca. It will then make a trans-Atlantic journey before embarking on a lengthy South American trip in early 2010.
 In May, Viking River Cruises will introduce the Viking Legend, which will have two 310-square-foot suites that will be the largest guest rooms in its European fleet. Most cabins on the Legend will have balconies, an unusual feature for river cruise ships. The ship will travel on 15-day itineraries along the Danube, Main and Rhine rivers between Amsterdam and Budapest. 
 The ship within a ship -- an exclusive area with upgraded amenities, extra service and private pools and lounges -- is an increasingly common luxury offering. MSC Cruises will expand its MSC Yacht Club accommodations to a second ship, the new MSC Splendida, this summer. Yacht Club rooms include butler service, access to a special lounge and pool just for Yacht Club passengers, and special menu items. Princess Cruises is expanding its adults-only area called the Sanctuary, an outdoor lounge lined with massage cabanas, to seven more ships this year.
 Norwegian is taking the premium service a step further, creating shore excursions aimed at travelers who book its Courtyard Villas, which have butler service. Options include dining in a private home in Tuscany. ''You will never take a bus,'' said Andy Stuart, executive vice president of global sales and passenger services at Norwegian Cruise Line. ''These are exclusive tours and very private, upscale experiences.'' 
 Back on board, cruise lines are moving to add a wow factor to entertainment. The biggest trend? The expansion of on-board 3-D movies. Disney Cruise Line recently began showing first-run 3-D movies on ships and plans to add special effects like fog and lasers this year. MSC's newest ships go to 4-D: a wraparound screen with 3-D effects plus seats that move and vibrate during the show. Both Carnival and Princess are also expanding outdoor theaters to more ships this year, while Costa will introduce its own take on the 4-D cinema along with in-room PlayStation games available through cabins' televisions.
 Europe and Beyond
 Even amid a pullback from international sailings, a sprinkling of new itineraries is being added overseas. Asia began landing on cruise itineraries with increased frequency three years ago. Costa is set to add another new ship to the region later this year, and Princess Cruises will have a few new Far East itineraries, but cruise industry watchers are now eyeing the Middle East as the next big exotic destination.
 Costa is basing its new Luminosa in Dubai in December. Itineraries have not yet been finalized but are likely to include stops in Abu Dhabi and Muscat, Oman, as well as two overnight stays in Dubai for passengers who don't want to book hotel rooms in the city before or after the cruise. The region will get an even bigger cruise footprint when Royal Caribbean starts service out of Dubai in January 2010. 
 The rise of Dubai as a home port reflects the increased interest in the Middle East as a cruise destination, especially among luxury operators. New for this year, Crystal Cruises has two Ancient Civilizations trips, 12- and 14-day sailings to Middle East ports with shore excursions led by archaeologists and historians. The 14-day sailing out of Dubai in May stops in ports including Aqaba, Jordan, and Luxor and Alexandria in Egypt. Celebrity is putting its new Equinox on 13 - and 14-night Ancient Empires trips that, for the first time, make stops at two ports in Israel, Haifa and Ashdod. 
 Regent Seven Seas Cruises has a 70-night voyage leaving in October that sails from Athens through the Red Sea and stops at multiple ports in the Middle East, including Salalah, in Oman, and Aqaba, before moving to Africa and across the Atlantic Ocean. The cruise can also be purchased in shorter segments; the first 15 nights will take you to Jordan, Egypt and two ports in Oman before arriving in Dubai. Regent offered a similar itinerary last year on a smaller ship, and it completely sold out.
 There are also new cruises in Europe. For the first time Norwegian has a ship, the Norwegian Jade, in Europe year-round; nine-day winter cruises visit Morocco and the Canary Islands through March and again in early 2010. 
 The Adriatic is also getting more attention. SeaDream Yacht Club has increased sailings to Croatia, adding ports that larger ships can't reach. 
 ''There are some communication lines underwater that the big guys can't get around, so it's a perfect area for us,'' said Bob Lepisto, SeaDream Yacht Club's president. Seven-day trips out of Venice stop in Korcula, Rab, Hvar and other towns along the Dalmatian coast. 
 Also, new for this year, Windstar Cruises is sailing round-trip out of Venice this summer on seven-day itineraries that stop in Koper, in Slovenia, and three ports in Croatia, including Split. Fares start at $2,249. 
 Farther north, Holland America broke up a 12-day sailing out of Rotterdam into a pair of six-day trips this year, in part to attract Dutch travelers looking for shorter getaways. The July cruises, which go to various ports in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, start at $865 for six days and $1,349 for 12 days. 
 Lindblad Expeditions' National Geographic Explorer ship, introduced last year, leaves May 28 on a 14-day Circumnavigating the British and Irish Isles trip. Stops include the Aran Islands off the coast of Ireland and the Scottish island of St. Kilda. With the 25 percent discount Lindblad now offers on this voyage, prices start at $6,643. Cunard is offering a new eight-day British Isles tour on the Queen Mary 2 in October. 
 Cruise West will sail in Europe for the first time, with 11- and 12-day trips on the Danube River between Vienna and Bucharest in July and October. 
 Themed Cruises
 Culinary cruises have long been a mainstay, and both Cruise West and Silversea have added more food-and-wine-centered trips this year. Cruisers not content to relax on a deck chair or watch a film can find trips focusing on specific topics. For example, Silversea added 11 wine-themed cruises this year, bringing aboard vintners from California, Chile and Italy to lead tastings and lectures. The cruises are offered in North and South America, as well as Europe. 
 Photography is the subject on several Cruise West trips in North America as well as on one Danube cruise, leaving Oct. 13; it will offer workshops led by a professional photographer for 148 passengers. Crystal Cruises has added photography cruises in the Mediterranean. 
 Crystal also plans a more unusual themed cruise, an 11-day sailing from London to Stockholm -- with stops at Helsinki and St. Petersburg -- with a focus on tennis. The trip will include a stop at the Swedish Tennis Hall of Fame in Bastad, Sweden; then travelers will be jetted back to finish with a flourish in London for Wimbledon. Passengers will receive center court seats to the men's and women's semifinal and final matches, and on-land accommodations at the Savoy hotel. Price tag? $25,299 a person, not including the $4,995 cruise fare.
 Another once-in-a-lifetime trip comes from the tour operator Abercrombie & Kent. Its 14-day trip to Antarctica in December will focus on climate change and visit Palmer Station, a scientific outpost. Prices start at $7,595. 
 Emphasis on health is moving beyond the spa to cruises highlighting healthy living. The Holistic Holiday at Sea (www.atasteofhealth.org) departs March 1 for a seven-night trip out of Fort Lauderdale through the western Caribbean. On the program is minimizing stress and improving health through the ''you are what you eat'' philosophy, a mantra taken literally with the option of on-board lectures including ''Straight Bowel Talk.'' Travelers can expect daily yoga and Pilates, macrobiotic cooking classes and meat and dairy-free meals, offerings that just may result in something truly unusual: a cruise without any weight gain. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: Cruise West has added sailings through the Columbia River Gorge with stops including Hood River, Ore., and Walla Walla, Wash.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE KEEFE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ABOVE LEFT AND RIGHT: Royal Caribbean's 5,400-passenger Oasis of the Seas, seen in construction and in a rendering, makes its debut late this year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROYAL CARIBBEAN INTERNATIONAL)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NAMAS BHOJANI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
TOP: The rise of Dubai as home port reflects interest in the Middle East, especially among luxury operators. ABOVE LEFT: Hvar and other Dalmatian coast ports are becoming more popular. ABOVE RIGHT: Norwegian Jade is Norwegian Cruise Line's first ship operating permanently in Europe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE)
ABOVE LEFT: Some Carnival staterooms adjoin the spa. ABOVE RIGHT: On one Crystal cruise, passengers can fly back to London for Wimbledon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL DE SOUZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)(pg. TR12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MASSAGE SERVICES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); FAMILY (71%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); AIR FARES (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (93%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (90%); AUSTRALIA (90%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORWAY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



608 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Ni Hao. My Name Is Gillibrand, but Lu Will Do.

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
She had them at ''Ni hao ma.''
 When Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand grabbed the microphone at the Lunar New Year parade in Chinatown two weeks ago, she blurted, ''Ni hao ma, zenma yang?'' in Mandarin, or ''Hello, how's it going?'' Later that day, after wrapping up a meeting with local leaders at a senior center, she walked by a few card tables and said, ''Hao bu hao?'' or ''Are you doing O.K.?''
 It is customary for politicians eager to connect with ethnic voters to butcher a few words in Spanish, Chinese or other foreign tongues. But Ms. Gillibrand is no ordinary politician when it comes to linguistic and cultural comfort: as an Asian studies major at Dartmouth, she studied for six months in China and Taiwan, becoming proficient enough to absorb stories in Chinese newspapers, and later spent four months in Hong Kong as a corporate lawyer. 
 Ms. Gillibrand's Chinese is rusty now. But she tells her 5-year-old son, ''Man man yi diar,'' or ''Slow down a little,'' and calls chopsticks ''kuaizi,'' out of habit. And she can still converse for a few minutes, as evidenced when a reporter from a New York City-based Chinese-language newspaper trying to learn her Chinese name unexpectedly found an enthusiastic Ms. Gillibrand on the line.
 ''She definitely understood what I was saying, and she had good pronunciation,'' said the reporter, Yan Tai, who writes for The World Journal. ''Actually, I was very impressed.''
 Now a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Ms. Gillibrand has come a long way from her days in China and Taiwan as Lu Tian Na, an exuberant adventurer who sucked down toad venom to counteract poisonous crabs from Beidaihe beach (about 180 miles east of Beijing), and who rode helmetless on a motorcycle in polluted Taipei. But those experiences deepened her appreciation for different cultures, Ms. Gillibrand said in an interview, and helped to shape her views on relations between the United States and China.
 Ms. Gillibrand's background has piqued interest among the fast-growing Chinese-American community in New York. And winning over Asian-Americans, who make up 6.7 percent of the state's population, could provide an edge in 2010, when a special election will be held for the remaining two years of the Senate seat. That could prove helpful given that Ms. Gillibrand, a centrist Democrat, has drawn fire for her views on immigration.
 ''It's encouraging for us to know that she has the background,'' said Virginia M. Kee, a founding member of the Chinese-American Planning Council. ''Her message was, 'I'm listening to you,' and I feel that she was sincere.''
 Ms. Gillibrand gravitated toward Chinese in college, she said, because she had never been to Asia and she loved the artistry of Chinese characters. Her Chinese name, Lu Tian Na, reflected a routine transliteration of her name. Tian Na (heaven and beautiful, respectively) represents Tina, which she was known as growing up, and the surname Lu (which means land) was thought to be a close match to her maiden name, Rutnik, and adds poetry and meaning to her Chinese name. 
 As a member (and eventually captain) of the squash team at Dartmouth, Ms. Gillibrand would practice writing countless Chinese characters during van rides to matches.
 ''She was more enthusiastic than average; she really stood out that way,'' said Seth Hendon, a student at Dartmouth who taught her at a language drill class. ''She really wanted to learn.''
 During her studies abroad in 1986, first in Beijing, then in Taichung, Taiwan, Ms. Gillibrand, then a junior, sampled everything from congee to dried cuttlefish and stinky tofu. She used a slide projector to show images of people and places she photographed, talked constantly to ordinary Chinese, took up tai chi and navigated her bicycle through Beijing's thoroughfares and narrow alleys. 
 By the time she returned to Dartmouth, Ms. Gillibrand could comprehend television news and newspaper articles, according to two classmates, Eve Stacey and Dana Beard, who accompanied Ms. Gillibrand overseas.
 ''I know it was a life-changing experience for me, and I suspect it was the same for Tina,'' said Ms. Beard. ''It opened our minds.''
 Ms. Gillibrand agreed.
 ''Our relationship with China is extraordinarily complicated, and when you do understand the culture better, having that appreciation means you can hopefully find compromises,'' she said.
 She said that the United States should be a ''candle for the world,'' and that ''so much of our foreign policy and national security depends on China.'' 
 She also suggested that she would be pragmatic in dealing with China's human rights record. She recalled trekking in Tibet, and noticing a 5-year-old boy who had little choice, because of his family's economic predicament, but to work alongside his father, carting stones in a wheelbarrow.
 ''When we talk about child labor laws, I have a recognition of how far other places have to go,'' she said.
 Ms. Gillibrand has forgotten many of the 2,000 characters she once memorized. But she still comfortably wields the q's, z's and x's of the Pinyin romanization system when e-mailing friends or acquaintances.
 She talked briefly in Mandarin with this reporter, too, but said that she wants to brush up, and hopes her older son, Theo, now 5, pursues Chinese in school so they can converse. But she can occasionally surprise: a few years ago, Mr. Hendon said that he bumped into Ms. Gillibrand on the street in New York, and she greeted him with ''Han Sai Si!'' -- his Chinese name at Dartmouth.
 Since Gov. David A. Paterson tapped her to replace Hillary Rodham Clinton, who stepped down to become secretary of state, Ms. Gillibrand has introduced herself to people beyond her upstate district, including Latino and Asian groups.
 Those constituencies could be crucial in a primary or general election next year. The number of registered Chinese-American voters in New York City jumped to 112,000 in 2007, or 3 percent of the city's 3.7 million voters. That is a 36 percent increase since 2001, and one of the biggest surges among ethnic voters, according to John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center.
 It also does not hurt that Ms. Gillibrand is apparently the only member of Congress with some proficiency in Mandarin, other than Representative David Wu, an Oregon Democrat who was born in Taiwan.
 At the Chinatown parade down Mott Street on Feb. 1, Ms. Gillibrand was flanked by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, whose district includes Chinatown, and Councilman John C. Liu, who represents Flushing. Mr. Liu, who immigrated from Taiwan as a child, rarely speaks Chinese in public, even though his Mandarin is quite good. Mr. Silver, meanwhile, can say, ''Hello, I am Silver,'' in Cantonese.
 But Ms. Gillibrand, bedecked in a red Chinese dress, was the main attraction.
 One boy who marched alongside Ms. Gillibrand hoisted a sign with her Chinese name, prompting a few spectators to say, approvingly, ''Lu Tian Na.'' And on Mulberry Street, two elderly Chinese women told her cheerily, in Mandarin, about a local event, prompting Ms. Gillibrand to nod, and say, ''Xie xie,'' or ''Thank you.''
 In an interview days later, Ms. Gillibrand said she regretted one thing: not delivering her speech in Chinese.
 ''Next year,'' she vowed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a Chinatown Lunar New Year parade, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand's Chinese name, Lu Tian Na, was on a sign hoisted by a boy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ms. Gillibrand with her classmates in Beijing in 1986. From left, Dana Beard, Eve Stacey, Ms. Gillibrand and Amy Smith. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHINESE NEW YEAR (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); LINGUISTICS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



609 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Miami Beach Feels the Heat

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

DATELINE: Miami Beach 

 BODY:
 AT a dinner for the author Steven Gaines at the Raleigh hotel recently, Alex Daoud, a former mayor of Miami Beach, and Michael Aller, the city's spirited tourism director, passed on Champagne in favor of spring water spiked with lime. 
 Had they embraced a new abstemiousness in the face of lean times? It was tempting to think so. Certainly their temperance ran counter to the go-go spirit of the Miami Beach depicted by Mr. Gaines in a new book, ''Fool's Paradise: Players, Poseurs, and the Culture of Excess in South Beach.'' The gossip-larded social history of Miami Beach spans the decades-long transformation of what the author calls ''the little sand bar across the bay'' into a fast-and-louche Eden, where corruption, street crime and profligate spending were as integral to the landscape as sand and swaying palms. 
 In recent months, the sinking economy has, inevitably, altered that landscape. Many of the glittery hotels lining Ocean Drive are barely two-thirds full, and escalating rents and slowing sales have forced a number of boutiques and restaurants to move off the Lincoln Road Mall, the eight-block-long pedestrian street that is South Beach's town center. 
 Clearly, the recession has cast a shadow here. But it is not a long enough shadow to have darkened the spirits of many heat-seeking visitors, who still descend on South Beach in search of escape. Lulled by the languid air and the pastel-tinted backdrop of Art Deco hotels, many are still intent on indulging a hedonistic streak.
 At the new Louis Bar, where tufted settees and pink menus with corsetlike lacing suggest a scene from ''Venus in Furs,'' Adriana Leone, a dentist with a practice on Wall Street, said, ''I came because the place is new, but mostly because I needed to get away from the depressing economy that is New York City right now.''
 She is one of many visitors embracing Miami Beach during high season this winter as the ultimate escape hatch, a place to shrug off the inhibitions -- fiscal or otherwise -- that restrain them at home. Mary Emmerick, a teacher in Chicago, is planning a trip to Miami Beach, where she has vacationed for the last 12 years. ''The first time I was there I kept going to the bank to cash another check so I could stay longer,'' she said. ''Even now, I know I won't want to leave.''
 Tourists -- 12.1 million last year for Miami and Miami Beach, according to the most recent figures from the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau -- are still arriving from New York and Atlanta, Buenos Aires and Sao Paulo, Brazil, swarming clubs, restaurants, pool decks and boutiques. ''People are drinking vodka instead of Champagne, but the crowds are still here,'' said Roman Jones, owner of the Opium Group, the force behind flashy clubs like Set, Mansion, Prive and the strenuously trendy Louis Bar, which is inside the eight-month-old Gansevoort South hotel. Despite the recession, about 15,000 people continue to pass through Mr. Jones's clubs each night, he said. 
 ''They come to blow off steam, and if spending $5,000 over a couple of nights will make them forget they lost more than $5 million, then in their minds it's worth it,'' he said. ''They're marking an era that has passed, but they want to hold on to it.'' 
 This season, the usual streams of visitors from New York, Latin America and Europe have been joined by some deep-pocketed Russians, who tend to contribute unstintingly to the city's economy. 
 ''In the first week of January, we did as much business as we did last year for that entire month, and it was all Russians,'' said Roma Cohen, a partner in Alchemist, a year-old Lincoln Road boutique selling high-end fashion by Azzedine Alaia and Rick Owens. ''They're the only ones who buy without asking for discounts.''
 Mr. Cohen, hard-pressed to keep hot labels in stock, may be holding his own economically, but other retailers are suffering, reporting a drop in sales of as much as 20 percent. On weekdays and some weekends, Lincoln Road traffic can dwindle to a trickle. Mead Dunevant, an assistant manager at Fly Boutique, a vintage shop, complained on a recent Sunday: ''It's dead here, like summer. People aren't spending what they were, and that leaves less for the locals.''
 Still, the economy has not deterred a handful of outsiders from establishing beachheads on the mall. J. Crew is expected to arrive in November, and Diesel, the Milan-based purveyor of hip casual wear, opened its doors last month, the latest of three Diesel stores to alight in the Miami area.
 ''There are certain markets where we have unbelievable success,'' Steve Birkhold, the chief executive of Diesel U.S.A., told Women's Wear Daily last week, ''and Miami is one of them.''
 Some of these mainstream ventures are predicted to fare well. But broad economic indicators depict a boomtown that has cooled. Declining prices and rising numbers of homes and apartments for sale place Miami and Miami Beach at the leading edge of the nation's real estate crisis. Home prices are 15 to 25 percent lower than at their peak in 2004, according to Michael Y. Cannon, a real estate analyst in Miami. 
 Deluxe hotels in Miami Beach like the Delano and the Setai can feel deserted on some days, one's footsteps echoing along terrazzo halls. Occupancy rates at luxury hotels in Miami Beach were down 17.6 percent in December compared with December 2007, according to Smith Travel Research, which tracks the lodging industry. The Gansevoort, which occupies a block-long stretch of Ocean Drive in a rapidly developing strip north of 20th Street, is one of many high-end hotels offering discounts and vacations packages, starting at $395 for two nights in a double room, compared with standard rates as high as $795 a night. 
 Miami Beach has seen worse. Although the resort thrived during the Depression, it suffered markedly in the 1970s, when it was deserted by travelers for the lure of Europe and the Caribbean.
 ''Business was so bad,'' Neisen Kasdin, a former mayor of Miami Beach, told Mr. Gaines in his book, ''that I was just happy to see prostitutes.'' 
 Fast forward to the late '80s, and the influx of fashion models and designers, young clubgoers and real estate speculators, who reanimated South Beach. The pioneering scene-makers included the designer Gianni Versace, who bought an opulent house at the center of it all. When he was shot and killed at his front door by a drifter in 1997, the bad publicity did little to slow the tide of tourists, entrepreneurs and professional beauties showing off in tank tops and Speedos along the beach. 
 As Mr. Gaines puts it in his book, ''Notoriety and thrill were partly what South Beach was selling.'' 
 In the last half-dozen years, a more ambitious wave of development has given rise to hotels like the Setai and the Fontainebleau, which underwent a $500 million renovation last year. ''At this point, I think we're set in stone,'' said Michael Capponi, a local promoter and builder. ''There is too much investment for it all to collapse.''
 Famous last words? Perhaps. But on a recent Friday night, the feverish activity at restaurants and night spots suggested there may be more to Mr. Capponi's claim than wishful thinking. Outside Set, a gathering of youthful supplicants in leather vests and spangled minis stood four-deep, pleading for a chance to enter and hear Estelle, the British hip-hop and R&B star. Inside, young women in samba-ruffled tunics shimmied atop Makassar tables, mimicking her moves; upstairs, others swayed trancelike in the intermittent spotlight.
 Earlier in the evening, at Prime 112 on Ocean Drive, one of five South Beach restaurants owned by Myles Chefetz, a line of patrons in double-breasted suits and abbreviated cocktail dresses snaked from the bar to the sidewalk outside, waiting for tables. Inside, others tucked into a double-portion $79 Porterhouse steak or sampled the restaurant's exotic rendition of comfort food: a steaming truffle-laced platter of macaroni and cheese. Business at Prime 112 was up 5 percent in 2008 over the year before, said Mr. Chefetz, attributing the rise to people who ''like to act rich for a night.''
 ''This isn't New York,'' he said. ''It's not considered bad taste to spend money here.'' 
 Indeed, ostentation seems to be an essential -- if sometimes amusing -- form of social currency in South Beach. Mr. Chefetz described what is known locally as ''the polar bear walk.''
 ''You see men in Ferraris getting out of the cars slowly, like a bear coming out of hibernation,'' he said. ''There will be a lot of needless engine revving, and it will take them a while to stand up. They want to be sure that when they do, you see the beautiful girl at their side.''
 ''It's all part of the show,'' he said. ''People coming from other areas of the country, that's what they want to see.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GETAWAY: Above, from left, Diana Orozco, Paugen Moncayo and Sarah Gonzalez, all from Miami
left, shimmying at Set, a nightclub.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DAY: Below, empty storefronts in Miami, which along with Miami Beach is at the leading edge of the real estate crisis. Home prices are 15 to 25 percent below their peak in 2004, a local analyst says.
NIGHT: Above, restaurants on Lincoln Road in Miami Beach
far left, dancing at Louis Bar
 left, the author Steven Gaines at the Raleigh hotel with Bruce Weber, the fashion photographer, center, and Mr. Weber's wife, Nan Bush.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MAYORS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TOURISM (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); HISTORY (70%); CORRUPTION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



610 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: County Tallies Costs of Cuts From Albany

BYLINE: By JULI S. CHARKES

 BODY:
THE staff at Westchester County's Office of the Medical Examiner had a full house one recent Friday morning as three bodies lay in various states of examination. Supervising the autopsies was Dr. Millard J. Hyland, the medical examiner, whose department oversees 500 to 600 autopsies a year. ''We determine the cause of death anytime there has been an unlawful act, a crime or unexplained circumstances regarding the death,'' he said.
 Under Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed state budget, Dr. Hyland said, he would lose about $802,000 in state funds for the coroner's office, about half of his budget. He said the cuts would force him to eliminate 11 jobs from his 17-member staff. 
 ''I'm a little old to be conducting three autopsies a day,'' said Dr. Hyland, who said he is in his 70s.
 Over all, county leaders and local officials estimate that under the governor's state budget plan, Westchester County government would lose $16.2 million of its anticipated $287.7 million in state aid. Local schools are facing a $32 million cut in state aid, and hospitals could lose $45.8 million. The aid that Albany provides directly to cities, towns and villages in Westchester has been maintained at the current level, $141.8 million.
 Cuts on the county level reach into a wide range of programs and services. On the county government level, almost two-thirds of the budget for programs for troubled and at-risk youth would be lost. About half of the money to pay for patrolling the three state-owned parkways in Westchester -- the Hutchinson River, Saw Mill River and Cross County -- would be eliminated. 
 That potential loss of state money is the worst many local officials said they could recall. ''I've never seen it like this,'' said Andrew J. Spano, who has been the county executive for a decade and was first elected as a county official in 1982.
 The governor's $121 billion state plan seeks to eliminate the largest budget deficit in state history, an estimated $13 billion for the fiscal year 2009-10, officials at the State Division of Budget said. State lawmakers are debating the proposal before the new fiscal year begins April 1.
 ''This is a very difficult and painful budget,'' said State Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Democrat from Yonkers. ''Hopefully, as we move forward, we will start building on priorities, we'll be able to streamline government, get rid of excess in terms of spending and do the kinds of things that these difficult times require us to do.''
 The proposed cuts would reach deep into county programs for children and families, county officials said. The governor's budget eliminates $4.5 million in state funds that help pay for about 40 programs grouped under the Community Optional Preventive Services Plan and spread throughout the Departments of Probation, Community Mental Health, Health and the Youth Bureau, among others. The overall Community Optional Preventive Services Plan budget is about $7.1 million, county officials said.
 Financing for the county police patrols of the three parkways would also be hit hard; the state has contributed about half of the $4.5 million cost of the patrols. 
 Some of the biggest proposed state cuts are for education; local school districts are facing aid reductions of 3 to more than 13 percent. The White Plains schools could have state aid reduced by 13.5 percent, or about $2 million. ''That's a pretty hefty cut,'' said Assemblyman Adam Bradley, who represents White Plains. 
 White Plains is one of a handful of districts that have begun public school board meetings on the district budget and the impact of state cuts. An initial budget proposal of $190 million in White Plains, representing a 3.2 percent spending increase, is being worked on with the hope of reducing that increase, said Fred Seiler, the district's assistant superintendent for business.
 An early assessment is essential to prepare residents to consider the possibility of program cuts and staff layoffs when they vote on budgets in May, said Lisa P. Davis, executive director of the Westchester-Putnam School Boards Association. ''The sensitivity to taxpayers is always there, but there is an enhanced sensitivity this year among superintendents, boards of education,'' she said. ''This is the only budget that gets put before a vote.''
 Under Mr. Paterson's plan, Westchester hospitals also face significant cuts -- from $712,000 for Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow to more than $29.1 million for the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, said the Greater New York Hospital Association, based on State Division of the Budget figures.
 While some lawmakers said they were hopeful that the federal stimulus plan would ease the pain of some cuts, particularly in education and health care, school officials said they were reluctant to count on such aid until it became official. ''We are not assuming anything,'' Mr. Seiler said.
 Others pointed to the economic disconnect of having some relief offered at the federal level even as the state seeks to balance its budget -- as required by law -- by slashing spending. ''We've built a whole community by interweaving monies from the federal, state and county levels,'' said County Legislator Thomas J. Abinanti, a Democrat from Greenburgh. ''When you start to pull any thread apart, you start to get gaping holes, and right now they're pulling out a lot of strings.''
 SHORTFALLS in state aid notwithstanding, Mr. Spano said, given the economic burden many residents face, he would not consider raising county property taxes further; the increase for this year was just under 3 percent.
 State cuts require constant adjustment of Westchester's $1.8 billion budget, and not just for the 2009-10 fiscal year, said the county's budget director, Anne N. Reasoner. In early February Ms. Reasoner and her staff factored into the budget a final round of cuts for the existing 2008-9 state budget that Mr. Paterson and the Legislature had just agreed to.
 That challenge comes even as programs vulnerable to state cuts are catering to more individuals, said William J. Ryan, chairman of the Board of Legislators.
 ''The economy clearly makes this task much more difficult,'' he said. ''We've got an economic crisis on our hands, and in a weak economy maintaining services is a difficult challenge -- even in a healthy economy it's difficult. Many of these are expensive programs, and it isn't easy when you're trying to make government less costly when you're trying to make your community a more affordable place to live.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CUTBACKS: Officer James O'Meara patrolling the Saw Mill River Parkway. The budget plan would pare funds for such patrols.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 FAR-REACHING: Dr. Millard J. Hyland, county medical examiner, says loss of state funds would force him to cut 11 of 17 staff jobs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); AUTOPSIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); DEATHS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); FAMILY (74%); CHILDREN (71%); FAMILY SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



611 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Pride and Compromise

BYLINE: By SHELBY STEELE. 
Shelby Steele, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, writes often about race.

 BODY:
UP FROM HISTORY
 The Life of Booker T. Washington
 By Robert J. Norrell
 Illustrated. 508 pp. The Belknap Press/ Harvard University Press. $35
 To belong to an oppressed group always meant that you could not pursue your self-interest by acting directly on the world. You first had to account for the oppressor who had so much power over you. So you inevitably wore a mask that helped you navigate the oppressor's bigotries, ignorances and self-absorptions. For the oppressed, the mask was power itself. And the four centuries of oppression we black Americans endured gave us masking as a cultural habit. 
 The real fights within the black community -- our internal culture wars -- have been over which face we show white America. The legendary battle of ideas between Booker T. Washington and W. E. B. Du Bois at the dawn of the 20th century was also a battle over masks: should we seem humble and modest or prideful and outraged? This ''mask war'' was vicious because group masks are mutually exclusive; each nullifies the other. Can't be humble and outraged at the same time. One mask had to die so that the other might live. So the battle between Washington and Du Bois was winner-take-all. One man emerged the leader of his race; the other became a symbol of Uncle Tomism. 
 And yet both men had good ideas for black uplift. Washington's emphasis on self-help was not fundamentally incompatible with Du Bois's emphasis on protest, and both were necessary. But Washington and his notion of self-help were diminished -- especially after the protest-oriented '60s -- to make the face of black protest more singular. Thus a paradox: masking is an inevitable coping mechanism for the oppressed, but it is always oppressive in itself. It sacrifices great ideas and good people for the look of unity. 
 No black man in American history has been more a victim of this paradox than Washington. And it is hard to think of a historical figure more in need of biographical rescue. Yet Washington is an awkward challenge for the contemporary scholar. He is so thoroughly stigmatized as politically incorrect that rescuing him could seem a political act in itself, and even a balanced book could be dismissed as a polemic. But Robert J. Norrell, in his remarkable new biography, ''Up From History,'' gets around this problem the old-fashioned way: by scrupulously excavating the facts of his subject's life and then carefully situating him in his own era. 
 Norrell, a professor of history at the University of Tennessee, is writing history as well as biography here, and his attention to historical context has the effect of normalizing Washington. We see, for example, that in the post-Reconstruction South of ''white nationalism'' and lynching, his accommodation of segregation -- in return for the latitude to pursue black economic and educational advancement -- was really a rather brave and pro-black position. So we are able to view Washington as more Quixote than quisling, a man forever hoping against hope and tirelessly at war with a kind of impossibility. In the cause of his people, he burned himself out to a fine ash -- dying in 1915 at 59, from exhaustion, high blood pressure and indifference to his health. He had single-handedly built a black college (Tuskegee Institute), in an Alabama of Ku Klux Klan terrorism, that was bigger than any white university in the state. Yet even today, when there ought to be the repose in black and white America to see him more clearly, the name Booker T. Washington still carries that taint of Uncle Tomism. 
 This is because he wore the mask of what I have called the ''bargainer'' -- that face by which blacks promise not to protest racism if, in return, their blackness is not held entirely against them, and they are free to pursue at least a part of their self-interest. Norrell's term for this is ''fox,'' and he says of the 25-year-old Washington, ''He had long since separated the inner Booker, the young man with big ambitions and independent intelligence, from Booker T. Washington, the public person known as a capable mulatto, clearheaded and modest, sensible and polite, a Negro who did not give offense.'' Interestingly, more than 100 years later, Barack Obama would write in his first book that, as a teenager, he had realized that people ''were relieved'' and pleasantly surprised ''to find a well-mannered young black man who didn't seem angry all the time.'' 
 Both men were ''foxes'' who pursued their quests by bargaining with -- rather than challenging -- white America. Both wore masks that disarmed white anxiety. But Washington is still the archetypal Uncle Tom because whites in his day were so intractable that his bargaining came to look like sycophancy. Today the brilliance with which he achieved the near impossible is forgotten, while the unfair presumption of his racial capitulation is ubiquitous. 
 ''Up From History'' will go far in correcting this. I thought I knew something of Washington's complexity before reading this book. And I had always been fascinated by Dr. Bledsoe in Ralph Ellison's ''Invisible Man,'' a darkly ironic sendup of Washington as a merciless pragmatist. But here we see the real man at his interminable labors: incessantly fund-raising for Tuskegee in the North, mapping out political strategy with liberal white philanthropists in Boston and New York, fighting with Northern black elites one day and with white nationalist Southerners the next, and then, back at Tuskegee, riding out on horseback in the early morning to micromanage the college's agricultural operations. And we see a man at odds with his own admonition against protesting racial injustice. He publicly protested ''against Jim Crow on railroads, lynching, disfranchisement, disparities in education funding, segregated housing legislation and discrimination by labor unions'' -- an agenda all but identical to the one taken up by Du Bois, the N.A.A.C.P. and others who had reviled Washington as being too timid. 
 But finally, he was a man who lived inside a crucible. As Norrell puts it: ''Having conditions forced on him, with the threat of destruction clearly the cost of resistance, does not constitute a fair definition of accommodation. It is coercion.'' Well said. And Washington understood that his people also dwelled inside a crucible. Norrell's rich portrait makes clear that Washington never stopped seeing himself as the leader of his people. How to help them live in such circumstances? His informing idea was that responsibility -- hard work, education, the moral life -- brought a degree of freedom and independence even in oppression. The pursuit of excellence would bring blacks an economic currency in the larger world, and thus, ultimately, respect and equality. With more fearlessness than any '60s black nationalist, he saw black Americans as a free-standing people and asked them to compete openly with all others. 
 The challenge for oppressed people is always to sustain good faith. Their world is so flagrantly unfair that it laughs at them. Washington's genius was to keep his people in good faith even in the depths of persecution. The South of his era was not terribly far from ''final solution'' thinking. So what we today snidely call ''accommodationism'' made space for the poorest black sharecropper to keep believing in the power of his will. He could go every year to the Tuskegee Negro Conference and learn about crop rotation, like any other man in charge of his own fate. 
 Du Bois's protest strategy for black advancement made this sharecropper's fate contingent on white moral evolution. It implied that his will would be largely a futility until whites changed. And Du Bois may have been right. But Washington understood that the loss of good faith was the worst of all things, and when black America was at risk of this, he was the shepherd. 
 ''Up From History'' gives back to America one of its greatest heroes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); HISTORY (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RACE & RACISM (70%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



612 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Our Greatest National Shame

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
So maybe I was wrong. I used to consider health care our greatest national shame, considering that we spend twice as much on medical care as many European nations, yet American children are twice as likely to die before the age of 5 as Czech children -- and American women are 11 times as likely to die in childbirth as Irish women.
 Yet I'm coming to think that our No. 1 priority actually must be education. That makes the new fiscal stimulus package a landmark, for it takes a few wobbly steps toward reform and allocates more than $100 billion toward education. 
 That's a hefty sum -- by comparison, the Education Department's entire discretionary budget for the year was $59 billion -- and it will save America's schools from the catastrophe that they were facing. A University of Washington study had calculated that the recession would lead to cuts of 574,000 school jobs without a stimulus.
 ''We dodged a bullet the size of a freight train,'' notes Amy Wilkins of the Education Trust, an advocacy group in Washington. 
 So for those who oppose education spending in the stimulus, a question: Do you really believe that slashing half a million teaching jobs would be fine for the economy, for our children and for our future?
 Education Secretary Arne Duncan describes the stimulus as a ''staggering opportunity,'' the kind that comes once in a lifetime. He argues: ''We have to educate our way to a better economy, that's the only way long term to get there.''
 That's exactly right, and it's partly why I shifted my views of the relative importance of education and health. One of last year's smartest books was ''The Race Between Education and Technology,'' by Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz, both Harvard professors. They offer a wealth of evidence to argue that America became the world's leading nation largely because of its emphasis on mass education at a time when other countries educated only elites (often, only male elites).
 They show that America's educational edge created prosperity and equality alike -- but that this edge was eclipsed in about the 1970s, and since then one country after another has surpassed us in education.
 Perhaps we should have fought the ''war on poverty'' with schools -- or, as we'll see in a moment, with teachers.
 Some education programs have done remarkably well in overcoming the pathologies of poverty. Children who went through the Perry Preschool program in Michigan, for example, were 25 percent less likely to drop out of high school years later than their peers in a control group, and committed half as many violent felonies. They were one-third less likely to become teenage parents or addicts, and half as likely to get abortions.
 Likewise, the KIPP program, the subject of a fine book by Jay Mathews, has attracted rave reviews for schools that turn low-income students' lives around. 
 There are legitimate questions about whether such programs are scalable and would succeed if introduced more broadly. But we do know that the existing national school system is broken, and that we're not trying hard enough to fix it.
 ''We have a good sense from the data where there are big opportunities,'' notes Douglas Staiger, an economist at Dartmouth College who studies education. 
 The hardest nut to crack is high schools -- we don't have a strong sense yet how to rescue them. But there's a real excitement at what we are learning about K-8 education.
 First, good teachers matter more than anything; they are astonishingly important. It turns out that having a great teacher is far more important than being in a small class, or going to a good school with a mediocre teacher. A Los Angeles study suggested that four consecutive years of having a teacher from the top 25 percent of the pool would erase the black-white testing gap. 
 Second, our methods to screen potential teachers, or determine which ones are good, don't work. The latest Department of Education study, published this month, showed again that there is no correlation between teacher certification and teacher effectiveness. Particularly in lower grades, it also doesn't seem to matter if a teacher has a graduate degree or went to a better college or had higher SATs. 
 The implication is that throwing money at a broken system won't fix it, but that resources are necessary as part of a package that involves scrapping certification, measuring better through testing which teachers are effective, and then paying them significantly more -- with special bonuses to those who teach in ''bad'' schools. 
 One of the greatest injustices is that America's best teachers overwhelmingly teach America's most privileged students. In contrast, the most disadvantaged students invariably get the least effective teachers, year after year -- until they drop out.
 This stimulus package offers a new hope that we may begin to reform our greatest national shame, education. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); WOMEN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); TRAINS (52%); FELONIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



613 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Redevelopment Lagging Near Newark's Arena

BYLINE: By MARY JO PATTERSON

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 THE glass entrance towers flanking the glossy Prudential Center downtown were bathed in light as members of the city's business community streamed inside one morning last month, eager to tour the place and hear about developers' efforts to transform the neighborhood.
 ''You can really feel the difference,'' Barbara E. Kauffman, executive vice president of the Newark Regional Business Partnership, said in the hockey-themed arena's Bud Light Goal Bar, a premium seating area. ''Things are happening, and starting to pop.''
 Yet the view from the Prudential Center's glass towers did not suggest much action at all. 
 In one direction, surface parking stretched as far as the eye could see, with nary a new high-rise in sight. A hulking century-old warehouse loomed at the site of a proposed pedestrian walkway, its demolition frozen by a lawsuit. In another direction stood a snazzy new sports bar and steakhouse, the Brick City Bar and Grill, but it was the only player on an otherwise deserted block. 
 The Prudential Center, nicknamed the Rock, has been open for business since Jon Bon Jovi introduced it as ''my new house'' on Oct. 25, 2007. Clearly, the $375 million, 18,000-seat building, home to the New Jersey Devils hockey team, Seton Hall men's basketball, an indoor soccer team, concerts and family shows, has made its mark. On game or show nights, this formerly desolate quarter of Newark comes alive. Season ticket holders rave about the plush trappings. Events draw both city dwellers, like Darrell Orr, a Newark native who lives in Jersey City, and suburbanites, like Sarah Blackburn, a former Arizonan who lives in Manalapan Township, Monmouth County. Both brought their children to a Disney on Ice show in January.
 But redevelopment of the urban renewal zone in which the arena is situated has stalled. The recent economic downtown and financing freeze are partly to blame, but there is another reason. Newark did not begin assembling the land until after the arena opened, and finishing the job is a complicated process. The city has yet to acquire at least a dozen properties in the shadow of the arena, through negotiations or condemnation, and relocate tenants. It must also vacate a street before redevelopment can proceed.
 ''Our goal is to have it ready for future redevelopment by the end of the year,'' said William Crawley, chief operating officer of the Newark Downtown Core Redevelopment Corporation, one of two city agencies involved.
 Even the Prudential Center remains a work in progress. The inside has empty retail space. The entrance plaza outside is not finished, and a 23-foot-high hockey player sculpture designed as the centerpiece is sitting in Boonton Township, in the sculptor's parents' backyard. 
 And Newark has yet to collect any rent.
 The Prudential Center was built by a partnership between Newark, which contributed $220 million, and the Devils, who paid the balance. As with the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which opened a half-mile away in 1997, the arena was envisioned as a way to revitalize the city's downtown. 
 The impoverished city rationalized the investment by promising short- and long-term returns: The Devils would pay the city set percentages of various revenue streams, under terms of their lease, while the arena would create jobs, bring people to Newark and stimulate development in a 24-acre district between Broad Street and McCarter Highway.
 Last September, when the first year's rent was due, the Devils filed papers asserting that the city actually owes them for construction delays. Newark disagrees, and is preparing to go to arbitration on the issue, said Ellen Harris, chief legal officer for the Newark Housing Authority, which owns the arena. Ms. Harris said the city's downtown redevelopment agency must do a detailed audit of arena revenue before it can calculate the amount owed. 
 ''But we believe rent is due, hands down,'' she said. ''At least, some base amount.''
 In an interview, Jeffrey Vanderbeek, president and vice chairman of Devils Arena Entertainment, an affiliate of the Devils, declined to say how much the Prudential Center grossed in it first year of operation, or how many of its events sold out. He did say that bookings were 15 percent lower than he had hoped.
 ''As concerts and acts come in and see how beautiful it is, and word-of-mouth gets around, we will continue to grow,'' he said.
 John Scher, chief executive of Metropolitan Talent Presents and a leading independent concert promoter in the New York region, presented his first booking at the Prudential Center two weeks ago -- a two-night Metallica engagement that sold out. The band opted to play in Newark after learning that the Izod Center in East Rutherford was available for only one night, Mr. Scher said.
 Within North Jersey, the Prudential Center competes with the Izod Center and its Meadowlands neighbor Giants Stadium, both operated by the New Jersey Sports Authority. Both of those facilities are among the highest-grossing in the country for concerts and family shows, according to Billboard Magazine. Giants Stadium is also home to the New York Giants and the New York Jets; the Izod Center is home to the New Jersey Nets, who plan to move to Brooklyn.
 Years ago, when city officials were first envisioning an arena, they counted on the Nets moving to Newark. That did not happen, and the team was sold.
 CORY A. BOOKER, the Newark mayor who inherited the arena from his predecessor, Sharpe James, said in an interview that the Prudential Center had become a prized community asset that has bolstered economic development throughout the city.
 ''It's helping us, even in the difficult economy,'' he said. ''We've been cutting ribbons left and right.''
 Mr. Booker said he would like to bring the Nets to Newark, and was working hard to find the team a buyer. (Its principal owner, Bruce C. Ratner, a New York developer, has said that the team is not for sale, and that it will move to Brooklyn in 2011.)
 Stefan Pryor, Newark's deputy mayor for economic development, said the arena triggered development of six new upscale restaurants and two residential projects within walking distance of its doors. Other deals are in the works, he added.
 ''There is a serious hotel proposal before us, close enough to the arena,'' Mr. Pryor said, declining to provide details. ''There are no nice new stores yet, but multiple stores have been circling.''
 Sports arenas are often hyped as magic wands for economic revitalization, but many tools are needed to revitalize a city, said D.T. Ogilvie, a business professor at Rutgers Business School. Dr. Ogilvie is a Newark resident and sits on the board of directors of the Brick City Development Corporation, the city's economic development arm.
 ''We know from research done on these types of initiatives that the promises are greater than the reality,'' she said. ''People do come for concerts and hockey games, but the big issue is whether they will stay. Do we have things in place to make them want to stay?''
 Many in Newark believe the answer will be yes -- once the economy rebounds.
 For now though, they must wait.
 At the Newark Regional Business Partnership's forum at the Prudentical Center last month, Michael T. Gillfillan, a co-owner of the Devils, said it could take five years before the city had a hotel fit to host a National Hockey League All-Star game. 
 A representative of Edison Properties L.L.C., the largest single private landowner in the redevelopment area, said his company would like to create a parklike pedestrian link between Newark Penn Station and the Prudential Center, with space for retail stores.
 Arena patrons who arrive there by train now must walk two long downtown blocks, past little but parking lots. The office buildings in the area are fortresslike and have no street-level attractions.
 The city has not yet completed the land swaps necessary, said Drew C. Fletcher, chief financial officer for the company.
 ''We had expected a groundbreaking by now,'' Mr. Fletcher said. ''But we're still very, very bullish on Newark.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPACE TO FILL: Vacant lots in the urban renewal zone around the Prudential Center in Newark, home to the New Jersey Devils. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 SHOWPLACE: The Prudential Center set up for a Seton Hall University basketball game, and, below, a Newark Regional Business Partnership forum held last month in the arena's Bud Light Goal Bar area.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); CITIES (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); SCULPTURE (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ICE HOCKEY (76%); SOCCER (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BASKETBALL (67%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (82%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (82%)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



614 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: My Other Job, Crazy as It Is, Keeps Me Sane

BYLINE: By CAITLIN KELLY

 BODY:
SOMETHING had to change. Working alone at home as a freelance writer, which many people dream of, wasn't working for me. The relentless isolation of connecting primarily with others online and by telephone was killing me.
 I needed a steady, secure, part-time job, something I could leave behind at day's end, with lots of people contact. I craved a new challenge, a chance to learn and perfect some fresh, useful skills.
 I applied for a job as a part-time retail sales associate selling a popular and well-known clothing brand in an affluent New York suburb. I would earn less than $12 an hour, no commission. To my surprise, I was hired, even though I had zero retail experience. Eighteen months later, I'm still there, working six to eight hours a week. 
 When friends, family members and colleagues learned of my new job, some were puzzled, some supportive. Many wondered: Wouldn't I be bored? Could I handle it? 
 My last full-time job was as a reporter for a major daily newspaper, but I'd given up sending out resumes. Two of my bosses had since been laid off, and in the last year, thousands of journalism professionals have lost their jobs -- hundreds of them in New York, where I live.
 Today, with any reliable job a precious commodity, I still show up every Tuesday at the store, even as I continue to freelance most of the time. I am now a battered veteran of two holiday seasons. I am 20 to 30 years older than most of my colleagues, twice the age of my assistant manager and more than a decade older than my manager. 
 Sometimes I feel like Alice slipping through the looking glass, toggling between worlds. In one world, I interview C.E.O.'s, write articles for national publications and promote my nonfiction book. In the other, I clock in, sweep floors, endlessly fold sweaters and sort rows of jackets into size order. Toggling between the working class and the chattering class has taught me a lot about both: what we expect of ourselves, how others perceive us, ideas about our next professional step and how we'll make it. 
 The contrasts between my former full-time job and my current part-time one have been striking. I slip from a life of shared intellectual references and friends with Ivy graduate degrees into a land of workers who are often invisible and deemed low-status. 
 In journalism, my workplaces often felt like rooms filled with balloons, enormous and fragile egos rubbing and squeaking up against one another until, inevitably, several burst with a bang. 
 In retail, divas are fired or soon quit. In journalism, I've had managers who routinely shrieked abuse. In retail, I'm managed by a man who served in the United States Air Force in Mogadishu and who wears his authority comfortably and rarely raises his voice. Even the most senior regional and national managers in my company who visit a few times a year know my name, say hello and listen to sales associates with respect. I never expected that. 
 In journalism, all too often perception helps people get ahead. One editor's star performer is another's nightmare. In retail, numbers win. I've become one of my store's top salespeople, and, for the first time in 30 years of professional life, I know my clear value to my employer. Our individual sales are posted on a wall for everyone to see. I like that clarity. Social capital means nothing here. Our retail sales floor is the levelest playing field I've yet seen.
 It comes at a price. I enjoy this job, grateful to the company that took a chance on me. But I can't afford to do it full time. Only using my other skills the rest of the week allows me to meet my financial commitments and keep saving for retirement. 
 The hardest part? It's not scraping gum and food off the floor or standing for five straight hours. It's not refolding clothing so many times the skin on my hands cracks from dehydration. 
 It's some customers' stunning sense of entitlement, even contempt, for those -- i.e., us -- they feel certain are their inferiors. Expecting good service is fair. Treating hourly wage workers like personal servants is not. When you wear a plastic name badge, few bother to read it.
 We, too, are intelligent and proud of our skills; many of us are college educated. Some of us travel often and widely, speaking foreign languages fluently. 
 Our employees include nationally ranked athletes, a former professional ballet dancer and a former officer in the French Foreign Legion. 
 Fortunately, just enough of our customers are pleasant and easily accommodated. They include jet pilots and surgeons, high school students and sanitation workers, and I enjoy their stories, whether of open-heart surgery or their Costa Rican honeymoon.
 I love sharing my expertise and experiences. When customers tell me they're going to Fiji, Kenya, the Grand Canyon or Cuzco, Peru, I can offer first-hand advice from my own trips there. I know what they need to stay warm, dry and comfortable on the ski slope, boat deck, hiking or bike trail.
 MY retail co-workers have chosen this job for many reasons. Some are college students, some already work at two other jobs, and for top managers, it's a well-paid full-time career. It offers flexible scheduling, can be a lot of fun and -- in an economy forcing millions to redefine themselves professionally -- its expectations are manageable and clear.
 With so many media companies struggling, hundreds of my peers are losing their handsome titles and well-paid jobs. Some of them, too, may have to redefine themselves, temporarily and part time, or permanently. Right now, at our store and for this company, I play on a winning team. It feels good.
 ''Are you still there?'' my friends ask me, month after month. Luckily, I am. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RANDALL ENOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); SALES FORCE (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); RETAIL SALES (70%); AIR FORCES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



615 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Salvadoran Immigrants Turn Attention Back Home

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER 

 BODY:
 LIKE many immigrants, some of the Salvadorans who live here have one foot in the United States and one foot in their homeland.
 Their soul and spirit are back in El Salvador with the spouses, parents and children they left behind when they came here seeking jobs. Much of the money they earn ends up in El Salvador in cash remittances for those relatives. 
 And a March 15 election in El Salvador is generating excitement and heated debate in some neighborhoods here -- even though Salvadorans living in the United States can't vote in it unless they return home. 
 The region's Salvadoran pockets -- in Port Chester, in Hempstead and Brentwood on Long Island and in Bridgeport in Connecticut -- are hotbeds of campaign fervor. On Jan. 11, for example, organizers for the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, the leading opposition party in El Salvador, held a meeting in St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church here to drum up support and raise money for its presidential candidate, Mauricio Funes, a television journalist turned politician. Fifty to a hundred people were there, depending on whom you ask.
 Hoping to scotch anxiety-provoking rumors, the speakers promised listeners that remittances would not be blocked if the presidency were won by the F.M.L.N., an outgrowth of the leftist guerrilla movement that fought the Salvadoran government in the 1980-92 civil war. They also tried to calm fears that an F.M.L.N. victory might mean that the United States would jettison a visa program that gives temporary protected status to 229,000 Salvadorans.
 Supporters of the ruling party, the Nationalist Republican Alliance, known as Arena, and its presidential candidate, Rodrigo Avila, have also campaigned among the more than a million Salvadorans estimated to be in the United States. Guillermo Chacon, secretary of the Salvadoran-American National Network, a 20-year-old nonpartisan group that helps Salvadorans with housing and other social services, said presidential candidates from the smaller parties had even taken flights to New York to rally the faithful.
 While Salvadorans who remain here can't vote in their native country, they can call relatives and press them to vote for a favored candidate. That is what they are doing, Salvadorans here say, and perhaps the reason they do so with urgency and ardor is that homeland politics is not just a matter of sporting interest. 
 One of the major concerns among many Salvadorans in the United States is that the money they send home -- $3.8 billion in 2008 -- no longer goes as far because of inflation in El Salvador, which the C.I.A.'s World Factbook put at 8 percent for 2008. They worry about the declining earnings of Salvadoran farmers because of continental trade agreements, about distances relatives have to travel for clean water, about endemic corruption. 
 ''There's more of a crisis in El Salvador than there is here,'' Daniel Navas, a 45-year-old construction worker in Port Chester and organizer of the Jan. 11 rally, said in an interview two weeks later. 
 The large number of Salvadorans here translates into a greater number of relatives back home to cajole. The 2000 census reported 600 Salvadorans living in Port Chester and 3,100 in Westchester, though community officials think both figures are significantly undercounted because Salvadorans who are here illegally avoid census takers. 
 Mr. Navas has three grown children whom he left behind when he came here in 2000 because he could not find a decent job, even with master's degrees in computer systems and business administration. He hasn't seen those children in eight years, he said, but often calls, and the topics they bat around include the election.
 ''My daughter says to me that 'You're going to be deported if the F.M.L.N. wins the elections,' '' Mr. Navas said. ''I said: 'That's not true. They can deport us if we don't have a paper, but not if the F.M.L.N. wins.' '' 
 Why the passion about an election in which he can't vote?
 ''Our heart is still there,'' he replied simply.
 With Mr. Navas in a local Salvadoran restaurant, La Pupusa Loca, was Jose Ulysses Torres, 44, a bakery maintenance man who hails from El Tablon, a village that he said has 210 houses, and Mr. Torres's 16-year-old daughter Martha, a Port Chester High School student who did the translating. Mr. Torres figures that half his Salvadoran village's population has transplanted to Port Chester and Bridgeport, so there are many long-distance calls with voting advice to relatives back home. 
 Of course, expatriates in lots of places, Americans included, are interested in their home country's elections. Philip Berns, an immigration lawyer in Stamford, Conn., said he thought homesickness, language barriers and the difficulty of grasping the subtleties of another political system all accounted for why expatriates ''pay almost no attention to the politics of the country they are living in.''
 But that often begins to fade with the next generation, as reflected in the contrast between Mr. Torres and his daughter. A large part of Mr. Torres, a green-card holder who said he came here 24 years ago to escape Salvadoran military recruiters, still resides in El Salvador. He has made several trips back to his native village with money collected from Salvadoran-Americans for medication and toilets. 
 Martha, though, is focused on life here. She followed the McCain-Obama race, while her father tuned in to the legislative elections that were held Jan. 18 in El Salvador and resulted in a plurality for F.M.L.N. -- 37 seats to Arena's 34, though not enough to swing power away from an Arena coalition. 
 ''I told my dad he's more interested in the Salvadoran elections than what's going on there,'' Martha Torres said. ''The answer he gave me is he's planning to move there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GENERATIONAL SPLIT: Jose Ulysses Torres, center, an immigrant from El Salvador, and his 16-year-old daughter Martha, with Daniel Navas, another Salvadoran immigrant, at La Pupusa Loca in Port Chester.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); FUNDRAISING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); RELIGION (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); CORRUPTION (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EL SALVADOR (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



616 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Boss Taking Fire In Europe Over Stimulus

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
After the withering reception his bank rescue plan received in Washington, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner could be excused for seeing his first trip abroad as a well-timed respite.
 Mr. Geithner, whose last job was head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has spent his career studying and carrying out international financial policy. So two days spent in Rome brainstorming with finance ministers from the Group of 7 nations about fixing the global economy played to his specialty.
 But amid signs that Europe's worsening slump has created fissures among G-7 leaders about how to deal with the crisis, Mr. Geithner found himself on the defensive in Rome this weekend, though not to the extent he was in Washington. 
 In a statement, the G-7 ministers promised to cooperate on the global economic crisis and said they had taken steps to inject cash into banks and identify troubled assets. They said the effects of such measures would build over time.
 ''There are no quick fixes,'' said Alistair Darling, Britain's finance minister. He said participants were happy that the United States was committing a lot of federal money to cushion the economy, but more was expected. ''We all understand that the U.S. needs to be an influence for good,'' he added. 
 The G-7 countries are Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. Russian representatives also attended the meeting.
 Last week Giulio Tremonti, Italy's finance minister and Mr. Geithner's host for the weekend, gave a tart review of the Obama administration's stimulus in a local newspaper here.
 ''If the problem is an excess of debt, the cure is not adding more debt, whether that debt is public or private,'' he wrote in the Corriere della Sera. Italy is one of the most indebted countries in Europe. Its debt surpasses its annual gross domestic product. 
 The national debt of the United States, by contrast, was about 40 percent of G.D.P. at the end of 2008, but Moody's expects that to rise to 60 percent by 2010 as a result of the recession and spending tied to the federal bailout and stimulus programs.
 On Saturday, Mr. Tremonti also spoke disdainfully of the ''Buy America'' provision in the stimulus plan, which covers iron, steel and manufactured goods, as a political slogan. He and other ministers emphasized the importance of keeping the American economy free of protectionism.
 The president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick, said he told ministers this weekend how crucial it was to keep the world economy open and to avoid the protectionist policy errors of the 1930s. ''The Buy American provision is very dangerous,'' he said. 
 As for Mr. Geithner's ability to provide global leadership, Mr. Zoellick was hopeful but guarded. ''He has to follow through,'' he said, on to the bank rescue plan. ''The demanding part will be in the delivery.''
 At a news conference Saturday, Mr. Geithner said the Obama administration was committed to free trade and efforts to jumpstart the world economy. 
 He also addressed a barrage of questions about when more details about the administration's bank rescue plan would be disclosed. ''We are going to move quickly to lay out a broad design,'' he said. ''But we also want to make sure that they work.''
 Mr. Geithner's trip to Rome has been a whirlwind, leaving little time for sight seeing.
 He arrived in Rome on Friday morning and began with a lunch at the finance ministry with his host, Mr. Tremonti. In the afternoon, there were one-on-one meetings with his counterparts from Britain, Japan, Russia and Canada, followed by a working dinner at a villa in Rome.
 Mr. Geithner was the only minister to get the podium to himself in the main conference hall at the Excelsior Hotel. He seemed to find a comfort level that was lacking when he announced his bank plan last week at a news conference but took no questions.
 This time, he took a series of queries. When that was over, he waited several beats before exiting with a smile and a wave. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); RECESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); DEBTOR NATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); ALISTAIR DARLING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); ITALY (93%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



617 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Sags as Conventions Cancel

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
This city's reputation as freewheeling and anything goes may have made it the champion of convention markets. But the city's image -- so successfully cultivated in the ''What Happens Here, Stays Here'' advertising campaign -- is not squaring with the new era of fiscal restraint brought on by the economic crisis.
 A rash of conference cancellations, and a presidential admonishment peppered with a Las Vegas reference last week, has unnerved politicians and resort executives who are fearful that the all-important convention industry could be on the verge of collapse. 
 ''It's certainly a moment we should all pay great attention to,'' said Jan L. Jones, senior vice president for Harrah's Entertainment, which had a 30 percent decline in convention business in January compared with a year ago at its seven resorts on the Strip. ''Las Vegas has long tried to balance the image of party town, serious town. This is an opportunity for us to remind business why they do business here, and it's because it's the best value.''
 In the last month, 30,000 hotel room nights booked for conferences have been canceled at an estimated loss of $20 million to the city, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. 
 Some of those rooms were reserved for a Goldman Sachs technology conference, which was moved to San Francisco this month. And the figures do not include 17,000 people who were expected to attend a State Farm agents' convention this October. That conference was canceled Wednesday.
 Las Vegas had already seen a 4 percent drop in visitors in 2008 from the year before and a decline of 6 percent in the number of conventions and events held here in that same period. The number of visitors was down 11 percent in December from a year before.
 Another conference cancellation came from the Automotive Market Research Council, which was supposed to meet at the Planet Hollywood resort in March.
 ''We thought it would be a harder sell for our members to get approval'' to go to a Las Vegas event right now, said Darren Green, vice president of the group. Mr. Green said the event had been called off as a cost-cutting measure.
 Anxiety over the matter escalated last week after President Obama told an audience in Elkhart, Ind., that companies ''can't go take a trip to Las Vegas or go down to the Super Bowl on the taxpayer's dime.'' The remark was taken by many here as an attack.
 ''The mayor heard the words 'Las Vegas' -- he didn't hear any other city -- and people are telling me that they're not coming to Las Vegas because the president doesn't want them to,'' said Mayor Oscar B. Goodman, who at first demanded a White House apology but later in the week said he just wanted a clarification. 
 ''There's an impression out there,'' Mr. Goodman said, ''that somehow if you come to Las Vegas, it's going to reflect on your business culture, and that's a bunch of hooey.''
 The White House has not commented directly on the matter. But the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said on the Senate floor Wednesday that Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, had told him that ''the president's criticism was aimed at the potential use of taxpayer funds for junkets and in no way reflects his thoughts about any one particular city.''
 Mr. Goodman and local meeting planners insist that they have heard from companies who said Mr. Obama's remarks scared them away, but Ms. Jones, the Harrah's executive, said no company had made that connection while talking to her.
 The cancellation that has particularly rankled Las Vegas was the one by Goldman Sachs, which received $10 billion in bailout money. The company issued a statement saying the decision was ''based on our best efforts to operate according to the requirements of the new landscape of our industry,'' but a $600,000 cancellation fee charged by the hotel has led some to question that explanation.
 ''I think it was a public relations move,'' Ms. Jones said. ''Why would you pay a cancellation fee and go to a city that's more expensive to get there and where the cost of food is more expensive because you don't have as many options? 
 ''There's no way that that ended up less money, and if the issue is really a responsible use of taxpayer dollars, doesn't that mean you look for the best value which is the lowest price?''
 With Las Vegas on the defense, competing destinations sense an opportunity.
 Mark Theis, executive vice president of the Chicago Convention and Tourism Bureau, said he planned to point out to meeting planners that ''people aren't going to raise their eyebrows'' about a company holding an event in his city.
 ''Now more than ever, it's going to be in our favor that glitz and what's new this week in Vegas isn't going to resonate to the show managers at a time when everyone's being scrutinized,'' Mr. Theis said. ''When you take out the casinos and all the recycled chefs, what else do you really have there? Splash has a limited shelf life.''
 Ms. Jones zinged back: ''They can be licking their chops, but the minute we tell our story, they can't compete. Ever. Counting Las Vegas down and out, given the entrepreneurial spirit at work here, is just foolish.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In January, convention business at some resorts was down 30 percent from a year earlier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 The Mirage last month during President Obama's inauguration. The decline in convention business has unnerved officials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); MAYORS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (50%)

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (54%); PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (91%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



618 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4153 words

HEADLINE: Wild Thing

BYLINE: By DANIEL MENAKER. 
Daniel Menaker, who often writes about music, is working on ''A Good Talk,'' a book about conversation.

 BODY:
''I wish I had a tremolo,'' Neko Case said. She looked at the Samburger she was wolfing down -- Samburgers and Zinburgers being the specialties of a restaurant called Zinburger, in downtown Tucson, where Case lives, for now. With their maple bacon, American cheese and Thousand Island dressing, Samburgers are a cardiothoracic surgeon's dream. Case had been talking about singers whose music and voices she admired -- Iris DeMent and Roy Orbison prominent among them. She now banged her hand on the table, flounced her bright-red hair, leaned over and said, ''I want a tremolo!'' Then she looked up and laughed at herself. 
 In part because of the inexpensiveness and flexibility of digital technology, the universe of independent singer-songwriters is constantly expanding. But in that universe, Neko Case is near the center. She is to many what she herself would call ''the Man!'' Her last CD, an often surreal and melodically inventive collection of songs called ''Fox Confessor Brings the Flood,'' rose to No. 54 on the Billboard chart and ended up selling 200,000 copies. And publications like Rolling Stone and Spin and The Stranger, along with a growing cadre of intense, often lovesick fans, have lionized Case's singing voice as uniquely clear and powerful. It may not vibrate as much as she would like, but it's not the angel-sweet sound of Alison Krauss, either -- it has real richness and body. And on her new CD, ''Middle Cyclone,'' to be released in March by Anti- (a division of the punkish label Epitaph that features all their artists who aren't punk), Case displays a wide vocal and emotional range only intermittently present on her six previous recordings and in her regular releases with the Canadian power-pop band the New Pornographers. She has often been described as a belter, a force of nature, a kind of vocal tornado. So this increased admixture of playfulness, delicacy and orchestral effects strikes you as the kind of variegation that artists -- and species -- make in order to survive and thrive. 
 Meat, wolfing, lionized, cyclones, species, tornadoes, survival. A suitable lexicon, because despite the appeal to a broader audience in her new lyrics and arrangements, Case remains, in person and in her music, at least for now, to some degree a feral outsider. And, like the weather that sweeps through her songs, a product of chaos. She was born in Alexandria, Va., in 1970, the daughter of Ukrainian immigrants. Her father and mother were very young and entirely unprepared for parenthood, according to Case. The family left Alexandria and lived all over the Northwest, but Case identifies her hometown as Tacoma, Wash. When she was just 5 or 6, Case's parents divorced, and afterward Neko split her time between her father and her mother and stepfather. She recalls those years as ones of extreme poverty. ''Government-issue American cheese was a treat,'' she said over her Samburger, bedecked with same, though not government-issue.
 ''I should have been an abortion,'' Case says, with her customary frankness. ''The only reason I wasn't was that my father was a Christian.'' Air quotes didn't quite land on that proper noun, but they hovered close by. He was also a heavy drinker, she says, and used drugs, and ''he hated his life. And he reminded us of that every day.'' Abortion rights is an important issue for Case -- she emphasizes that she has seen and lived the misery of unwanted children. (Another cause of hers is humane treatment for animals that suffer cruelty and neglect at people's hands.) Her father died not long ago, of a heart attack, at 56, and she seems more sympathetic than angry about his desperate existence. ''I've been mourning my dad my whole life,'' she says. Her mother was good to her as a little girl, Case says, but adds that later she was often left at home alone. ''I spent a good deal of the time alone with dogs,'' she told Harp magazine. ''I'd sing and talk to the dogs and draw pictures.'' 
 CASE HAS A LOT OF ANIMALS of her own now -- four dogs, three of them rescues from the Tucson Greyhound Park racetrack, the ''home of paw-pounding action!'' its ads say. The racers there have names like Dollar Fa Dollar, Phoenix Twix and Exotic Lookin, but Case has retitled hers Swan-y, Guy and Travis, the last named after the hero of one of her favorite movies, ''Paris, Texas.'' A fourth dog, a shepherd-chow mix, Liza, balances the bony and high-strung greyhounds with some heft and calm. The dogs have 15 legs among them; Travis lost one to cancer. 
 For the last five years, Case has lived in a middle-class, one-story-house neighborhood of Tucson, not far from the city's center. But this spring she'll move to an old farm she bought and is now renovating in northern Vermont. ''I want to get away from the social vampires in Tucson,'' she says. ''The people who have no lives of their own and meet me and know who I am and feel entitled to say negative things. I have good friends here, especially in the bands'' like Calexico and Giant Sand. Members of these bands and others have often appeared on her CDs. ''But a lot of it is just like high school. And I like forests and all the wildlife up in Vermont.'' It's hard to imagine what these acts of social vampirism might consist of, but she prefers to leave them unspecified. She also asks that the Vermont town's name not be mentioned. ''I've had stalkers,'' she says. Alexandria, Tacoma, Vancouver, Chicago, Tucson and, next, Vermont. Case hopes that her new community will prove to be her permanent home. You wonder.
 She takes the dogs out three or four times a day -- at least once to a nearby park, so that the greyhounds can run. I walked with her one afternoon. Quite a sight, this flame-haired, black-clad person and her four charges, as they walk through the cactus-dotted, sand-dusted Tucson streets and alleys. She is 38, 5-foot-7, slender and lithe -- she spends 50 minutes on a treadmill every day and has been kickboxing since she was 24. Her face is long and faintly weathered. At Joe's Pub in New York a couple of years ago, she seemed tour-fatigued backstage but often fierce when she was performing. ''I have this typical Ukrainian face,'' she says. ''Even people who know my music don't recognize me most of the time, thank God.'' She may go unrecognized, but she seldom goes unnoticed. 
 Other dogs tore back and forth barking ferociously behind fences as the human/canine entourage went by. ''There's a lot of crime here,'' Case said. ''Break-ins. A lot of drugs too -- meth.'' A Latino woman with a bulldog straining angrily at his leash walked by on the other side of the street. She held the leash with two hands. ''Sorry,'' the woman said. ''He is not too friendly.'' When Case is on tour -- typically at least six months a year -- a friend takes very careful care of the dogs. ''And when I'm home, they take care of me,'' she said. (Case is offering a free download of ''People Got a Lotta Nerve,'' from the new album -- a song that chastises human beings for destroying predatory animals -- and Anti- will donate $5 to Best Friends Animal Society for every blog that posts the offer.) A flock of birds flies by right overhead, with a larger bird behind them. ''That's a Harris's hawk,'' Case exclaimed. ''See the white ring around his tail? There are a lot of predator birds in the desert -- hawks and especially great horned owls. They are awesome! He's after the pigeons.''
 CASE LEFT HOME IN TACOMA when she was 15. There was a day when she packed up and moved out, but even before that she was drifting away. Some nights she just didn't go home, or couldn't. ''There was a lot of drinking going on then,'' she says. She lived in the basement of a friend's parents' house for a while. ''But eventually I had to leave,'' she says. ''I was a teenager, and of course I didn't do the chores I was supposed to do to be able to stay there.'' She hung out on the fringes of the Northwest's punk-rock scene, which at the time was energized by the success of Nirvana, among other bands, and did a lot of PCP. ''Remember? The stuff that had kids standing at the edge of roofs, thinking they could fly?'' Astonishingly -- for someone with her background and habits -- she somehow got her high-school G.E.D. and then with borrowed money attended the Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design (now a full-fledged university), in Vancouver. She is still an artist as well as a musician -- and a seamstress and an avid reader and an environmentalist and someone capable of basic car repair. She recently contributed a cardboard building to a recycled-material collaborative installation called ''The Exquisite City,'' which opened at the Chicago Tourism Center in January. 
 Her career in music started with her playing drums in several Tacoma and Vancouver bands -- the Propanes, the Del Logs, Cub and Maow, all punky or country -- or puntry -- and she still feels a strong bond with Canada. It was with Maow that she began singing as well as drumming. ''It's really hard to do,'' she says. ''Levon Helm is the Man -- he's awesome!'' She made sure to minimize the damage in case she messed up the first time. ''I chose an audience of seven or eight in Toledo, Ohio,'' she says. She eventually clambered out from behind the drums and went on to form her own band drawn -- in the recombinant process that typifies the indie-rock scene -- from such other groups as Zumpano, the Softies and Shadowy Men on a Shadowy Planet. 
 In 1997, Case officially began her solo career, accompanied by Her Boyfriends, a nomenclaturally more dignified band, with a CD called ''The Virginian,'' which was a mixture of country covers and original songs with a more-or-less-traditional country sound. There followed ''Furnace Room Lullaby'' (2000), also with Her Boyfriends; then, under her name only, ''Canadian Amp'' (2001); ''Blacklisted'' (2002); ''The Tigers Have Spoken'' (2004; ''a real live album,'' Case says, ''not a fake live album like so many 'live' albums''); and in 2006, ''Fox Confessor Brings the Flood.'' 
 Each recording puts the country and country-noir vocals and arrangements and the dropped g's that characterized Case's earlier career further behind, though traces of them pop up often. Fewer three-chord Everly Brothers-type covers (she recorded ''Bowling Green'' on ''The Virginian'') and fewer notional numbers, like Case's own ''Honky-Tonk Hiccups,'' one of the few downright (and probably purposefully) silly songs she has written. ''Middle Cyclone'' does include Case's renditions of ''Never Turn Your Back on Mother Earth,'' the odd, admonitory waltz by the decades-old protean band Sparks, and Harry Nilsson's lovely and slyly funny ''Don't Forget Me,'' and they happen to be the most overtly tuneful and ''easy'' of the album's 15 tracks. By the way, the last track, ''Marais la Nuit'' -- ''Night Swamp'' -- is 32 minutes long, uses four-minute repeated loops, is amphibian in its tonalities and comforting in its effect, and that's all that should be said about it before the album's release. 
 The foundations of Case's music are still -- somewhere down there, almost subterranean -- country and indie rock, but for some time now her melodies have been growing more complex, the instrumentations more varied and ambitious, the modulations more surprising, the lyrics more imagistic, to the point, sometimes, of surreal impenetrability:
 Who led you to this hiding place? Whose lightning threads spun silver tongues? The red bells beckon you to ride, A handprint on the driver's side. 
 ''Deep Red Bells,'' from ''Blacklisted''
 This is one of Case's most memorable compositions. An admirer of hers, the musical polymath T Bone Burnett, says that he heard her sing it at the Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles some years ago, ''and I don't think I've ever heard a voice that sounded like that before. It was so full! I don't know of another woman who has that same fullness and power.'' Case did in this instance divulge one reason that this song may make such an impression -- live or on ''Blacklisted.'' ''It's based on the Green River killer,'' she says. ''When I was a kid in Tacoma, we were all scared all the time. I actually carried a knife to school with me. The 'you' in the song is one of his victims. They were all prostitutes, but we didn't know that. They could have been anybody; they could have been us.'' When you know this, ''hiding place'' becomes pretty ominous, and ''silver tongues'' may allude to the way the killer -- Gary Ridgway -- used sweet talk and photographs of his son to lull his victims into trusting him. 
 Such knowledge adds to and subtracts from the song's strength. Like poets, many songwriters who use surreal and open-ended lyrics decline to provide explications for them. When ''Deep Red Bells'' is ''solved'' this way, you perhaps feel more acutely the fear and mourning that generated it. But knowing the topical background may also denature the lyrics somewhat. ''I don't want to be a spoiler for the listener,'' Case says. ''I want people to feel able to make the song their own.'' 
 One person not subject to this general nondisclosure policy is Paul Rigby, the band's guitarist, who is also Case's compositional collaborator. ''Sometimes I don't get something -- some reference,'' he says, ''and I'll ask Neko where it comes from, and she'll tell me.'' Case explains, ''That's because sometimes it's important for Paul to know something more specifically so that he can make a chord change suit the meaning better.'' Rigby goes on to say: ''I think Neko is always writing, even when she's not. It seems like the lyrics can happen over a day or a year. The idea comes first, and then she tries to find a melody. Then, later, she may say to me, 'I need the chord to be weirder here,' or something like that. I'll whittle it down to two choices, and then she makes the decision.''
 Jon Pareles, a music critic for The Times, best described the overall impression that ''Fox Confessor'' makes: ''Memories interweave with fantasies, observations with fragments of narrative. For every clear-cut song about troubled love . . . there are two with far more elusive imagery.'' Then, most perceptively: ''At first, the songs can seem remote and arty, but gradually they start to add up. . . . She's unveiling what haunts her.'' 
 NEKO CASE'S LIFE and musical career, viewed together, form a collage -- the visual-art form she favors. They consist of many ''found'' or accidental or rescued elements, starting with the old brown Chevy diesel van that she drives. The more you look at them side by side, however, the more they cohere and interconnect. Take the dogs (''gassy dogs with smelly butts,'' she called them, before that Tucson walk). Well, in the barn of her new old farm in Vermont, where some of ''Middle Cyclone'' was recorded, there are six of eight castoff pianos that Case discovered offered free on Craigslist. Derelicts, too, in their way. ''Some of them don't really work very well -- the pedals don't operate, a few keys are broken,'' she says. Like the dog with the missing leg. As she used to be, each piano is a stray. She puts them to strong use in her anthemic version of the Nilsson song. Watching a video of her recording that song is moving, especially as its burden -- ''Don't forget me'' -- comprehends not only a lover's yearning for remembrance but also an artist's striving for recognition and a human being's longing for permanence. And, maybe, a piano's wish for a new life. And a child's wish for attention. A complementary gust of wind happened to whoosh through the barn near the end of the recording. Case kept it in. 
 Or take the growing eclecticism of her music and the influences on and contributors to it. At various times in her career, critics have compared her with everyone from Patsy Cline (yes) to Loretta Lynn (no) to Dolly Parton (huh?) to Wanda Jackson (yes, definitely). She admires a very long list of other musicians: from Howlin' Wolf -- ''He's just awesome!'' she says -- to, of all people, the Hi-Los, and has done covers of songs by everyone from Tom Waits to Queen to Hank Williams. And on ''Middle Cyclone,'' the Band's Garth Hudson, members of Calexico, Los Lobos, the Sadies and a few of the old New Pornographers pitch in. So Case has fashioned from this assemblage of predecessors and admirations something very much of her own in her songwriting and singing. The first time through ''Fox Confessor'' and ''Middle Cyclone,'' you have no idea what might be coming next. 
 Case courts surprises in her music but not in the commerce behind it. She was cast on -- and then cast herself on -- her own devices for so long that when it comes to business, she has insisted on complete independence. She has recently turned down major-label overtures (''And I'm so glad that Elektra, for example, didn't come to me early on with an offer,'' she says), retains all the rights to her songs and has never made a publishing deal. She does share revenues with Rigby, the guitarist. ''Paul really helps me compose my music,'' she says, ''he always knows which chords to use when.'' Otherwise she retains artistic and financial control of her productions. What are those revenues? Well, in her best year, 2006, when ''Fox Confessor'' was released and she had an extensive tour to go along with it, she had gross revenues of about $360,000. Of that figure, she says, about $320,000 went for professional expenses -- equipment, transportation, the band's pay and so forth. 
 Case is more flexible when it comes to her work with the New Pornographers. Here is a pretty different kind of music from her own -- she has no part in the lyrics and none in the production of the group's recordings. ''We were just that loud rock band,'' says Carl Newman, the New Pornographers' guitarist and songwriter. ''She might just come in and record with us for five days. She told me once that hearing the songs she does with us when they're all finished is like coming home and finding that your house has been redecorated.'' Newman had been friends with Case for a while in Vancouver before he first got a real idea of her singing voice. ''It was at a friend's wedding,'' he says. ''It was the first time I heard her in full-on Neko mode. She sang that old song 'So Young.' That was the first time I realized how really great she was.'' Odd song for a wedding, if he's talking about the Ronettes' ''So Young'' -- ''So young, can't marry no one.'' Newman says: ''No one is listening to the words at a wedding, anyway. They're all just dancing -- and hammered.''
 CASE'S HOUSE MAKES the same kind of mixed-assortment impression that her songwriting does. As there are in her lyrics, there were animals everywhere -- not only the real, gassy ones but also mounted deer heads, prints of pictures with animals in them, statuettes of animals. A banjo hung from a hook. A couple of proto-Pisa towers of books stood in one corner, and a couple of long rows of LPs sloped against a couple of walls. A stack of DVDs was less precarious but no less heterogeneous than the books and LPs. 
 Maybe because of her hard childhood, it seems as if Case has created not only her music and her art and her sewing and her decor but also her very self out of patches and pieces. Somehow she managed to shore up her fragments against a meaningless life of drugs and poverty and oblivion. It could easily have gone the other way. After leaving her friend's parents' basement in Tacoma, she says: ''I was pretty floaty. I didn't have any idea about mortality. My life was like the scene in 'Roger Rabbit,' where the guy goes into the cartoon world.'' Finally, and paradoxically, it was her very anger about neglect that appears to have driven her away from self-destruction and toward music. ''I was a mad kid,'' she says. ''I was sick of being poor. I was sick of being a girl. I felt completely unimportant, I didn't matter to the world, and I was just going to get love any way I could.'' 
 You can hear that anger in many of her recordings, especially the earlier ones. It may account for the almost assaultive nature of some of her singing and some of her arrangements: a staccato drumbeat, a lemon-sour twangy guitar, in-your-ear intensity, heavy use of reverb -- an effect that Case says creates a feeling of space but to my ear often creates a sense of confinement. (Case has said of her childhood, ''I felt like a prisoner.'') And then there are these recurring images in her lyrics, some of which are from love songs -- knives, wolves, teeth, birds of prey, claws, fire and blood. And when she's singing more calmly, Case can sometimes sound at a distance from her material.
 To say nothing of its title, 5 of the 15 songs on her new CD mention tornadoes or cyclones. So you would expect to find even more tempestuousness here. But the very first cut is called ''This Tornado Loves You.'' Hmm. A different spirit and, maybe, greater self-awareness. The vocabulary hasn't lightened a great deal -- nettles, cyclone, tornado, vengeance, animals and so on. But some of the distance is gone -- the singer sounds more fully in her songs than she sometimes has sounded before. ''I was willing to be a little more personal,'' Case says. ''I realized that it's O.K. to admit that no matter who your characters are, you're writing about yourself.'' 
 DURING MY VISIT TO TUCSON, we took a trip to buy produce of integrity at a Whole Foods supermarket overlooking the city. It was one of your more picturesque supermarkets, to say the least, in a mall with a cactus garden and a spectacular view. The cacti outside the store reminded me of the often-thorny music Case admires and composes. They appeared to grow out of nothing, beauty and strangeness from dust, and then new parts of them seemed to spring as if from nowhere out of other parts, the flowers looking completely ad hoc and accidental. 
 The whole place, the whole city below, exuded both desperation and determination, mixed in with its meth fumes. The scene may not have had quite the eschatological chill that Case's lyrics for the title track of ''Fox Confessor Brings the Flood'' have: ''It's not for you to know, but for you to weep and wonder/When the death of your civilization precedes you.'' But especially in these catastrophic financial times, and especially in a place like Arizona, where a huge number of people were facing foreclosures not merely of mortgages but of their entire economic lives, and a huge number of other people risk deportation every day, it was close. 
 IN HER RATTLY BROWN CHEVY VAN, Case returned to the issue of abortion. She deplored some recent movies that raise the matter as one of its crucial plot points -- ''Knocked Up'' and ''Juno,'' for example -- and then ''solve'' it with a sweetly positive ending or a miscarriage or some other sidestep. ''Just have the abortion,'' she said of ''Juno.'' ''Just have it and get on with your life.'' She continued: ''Years ago, I went to Planned Parenthood in New York -- for another reason -- and I saw these girls waiting there, and it was just awful. It was cold, they were in gowns that didn't really close, and their boyfriends and parents weren't with them, and they were sitting under these bright lights, and the people were mean.''
 Surely this experience lies behind one of her most readable songs, ''Pretty Girls,'' on ''Blacklisted'':
 The TV is blaring and angry, as if you don't know why you're here. Those who walk without sin are so hungry -- Don't let the wolves in, pretty girls. . . . . Don't let them tell you you're nothing.
 But once again, the collage effect supersedes the direct correspondence between Case's life and beliefs and her art. For it's as much the patness of those movie endings as their politics that infuriates her. Just as it's the canned and banal aspect of a lot of popular music that bugs her and, conversely, the moral and even narrative irresolution of a show like ''The Wire'' on HBO that earns her respect. An aesthetic of contingency, luck and resourcefulness governs her personal history and her work, especially the open-ended nature of her songwriting. ''Middle Cyclone'' -- named after the area near the middle of a tornado in which air rushes straight up -- comes close to immediate accessibility, but it is never pat, never ear Splenda. It has a Brechtian-sounding love song in march rhythm, two or three waltzes, a sweet Byrds-like salvo of opening guitars and vocal effects from wild to coy. 
 Of this openness to new forms and experimentation, T Bone Burnett says: ''Neko is an artist. It's that simple. She's above it all, the way an artist has to be. I wouldn't be surprised if one day she picks up and moves to Bulgaria to learn about Bulgarian art. She's open to everything. She's a young woman with an incredible gift, that voice, and the spirit of a true artist'' -- everything, it seems, except a tremolo. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL JACKSON) (pg.MM21)
Neko's Wild Years: As a teenager, top, and in Vancouver with an early band, the country-punk act Maow (Case is at left). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP: PHOTOGRAPH FROM NEKO CASE. BOTTOM: PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CLARKE) (pg.MM22)
 Case and her ''strays'' -- a half-dozen pianos in varying degrees of disrepair that she has collected -- in her Vermont barn during the recording of her latest record, ''Middle Cyclone.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON CREPS) (pg.MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); SONG WRITING (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (78%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (73%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%); ARIZONA, USA (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



619 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Audio Slide Show: A City In An Economic Vise
 If the General Motors plants shut down, Pontiac, Mich., a city outside of Detroit with a population of 62,000, will be hard-hit. The mood there is explored in an audio slide show about two families and a pastor in the area. At left, Mary Strango behind the counter at George's Coney Island restaurant in Pontiac, which is owned by her husband, George Strango. 
nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: 36 HOURS IN ANTIGUA
 The tiny island of Antigua is one of those famously paradisaical places. Pristine beaches -- 365 of them, if you can believe the tourist brochures -- fleck the coastline, and everywhere you look there is yet another exhilarating view of sea, cliff or tropical landscape.
 nytimes.com/travel
 SLIDESHOW: SEA AND FOOD IN WHITSTABLE, ENGLAND
 Whitstable, England, has a special relationship with seafood, oysters in particular. A journey there should ideally begin on an empty stomach.
 nytimes.com/travel
 INTERACTIVE: A HODGEPODGE BLOCK
 There's not much to see among the architectural miscellany of East 82nd Street between Lexington and Third Avenues -- until you stop to look. An interactive feature juxtaposes photographs of the block, from 1917 and 2009.
 nytimes.com/realestate
 SLIDESHOW: A FIRST LADY TRAVELS
 Photographs of foreign trips by Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, who has emerged as a good-will ambassador in a personal experiment to burnish her image and project the soft power of France.
 nytimes.com/style
 VIDEO: 'LUCIA' IN HD
 An video excerpt from the Metropolitan Opera's production of ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' with Anna Netrebko, which was shown at movie theaters.
 nytimes.com/arts
 SLIDESHOW: ON THE STREET
 Last week, expressions of love were everywhere. And as the thermometer climbed above 50, The Times's Bill Cunningham says, an affair was revived as stylish men traded heavy coats for beloved sports jackets.
 nytimes.com/fashion
 Vows
 VIDEO: Stephanie And Cristian
 Stephanie Reveron met Cristian Andree Farias in 2004 after she was invited to sing at his church. After a first date on Valentine's Day, the two realized they had each found their match.
 nytimes.com/weddings
 POGUE'S POSTS
 Flying Cars? Not Quite
 The Aptera is a three-wheeled car that gets 100 miles to the gallon and nails the retro-futuristic look.
 nytimes.com/poguesposts
 WHEELS
 Daytona 500, Lean and Hungry
 The economy has battered the sport of auto racing. Many sponsors, which provide the cash needed to run multimillion-dollar teams, have pulled out. Layoffs have resulted. At Sunday's Daytona 500, winning versus losing for many of the 43 starters could mean the difference between staying in business or going bankrupt.
 nytimes.com/wheels 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTO RACING (83%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); BEACHES (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); FILM (69%); OPERA (64%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: CARLA BRUNI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



620 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ARMCHAIR TRAVELER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words

BYLINE: By RICHARD B. WOODWARD

 BODY:
Oxford Atlas of the World (15th edition) Oxford University Press, 448 pages, $80 hardcover
The atlas has been going extinct even faster than the rest of its kindred published-on-paper species. MapQuest and G.P.S. devices are obviating local street guides, while Google and Digital Globe give the kind of zoomable views of earth from on high that were once for C.I.A. eyes only. In 20 years, those now willing to pay $80 for a set of world maps will very likely have pull-down touch screens in their homes, with statistics and real-time satellite video from any city or country (and maybe even a few planets) they want to call up. 
 Until then, we can sit down with the august Oxford Atlas of the World. Billing itself as the only one to be ''updated annually'' -- this new edition is the first to feature an independent Kosovo -- it has been working hard to compete with materials available online. 
 There are 179 pages of regional maps, plans of 69 major cities (from Santiago, Chile, to Seoul, South Korea), a gazetteer of 220 nations (with notes on politics, religions, languages and economies), a section on world geography (on everything from climate change and global warming to comparative standards of living), and a snazzy section of satellite images. 
 In contrast to some United States publishers, which cover the 50 states in finer detail than other places, Oxford provides an evenhanded tour of the planet, albeit with a subtle European bias. This more cosmic attitude may be necessary for keeping America's self-importance in check but is not so helpful for, say, bringing Denver into sharper focus. Both the Rand McNally and the Hammond atlases are less expensive, and the maps and data on countries are better integrated in the National Geographic Family Reference Atlas of the World.
 In terms of knockout imagery, none of them can rival ''Map: Satellite'' from Dorling Kindersley, with its aerial photographs of tsunamis and rain forests (and a hologram on the cover). Long gone are the days -- and good riddance to them -- when atlases showed empires and their colonies in contiguous colors. Landmasses are now hued in a narrow, and egalitarian, band of greens and browns. (Only in Oxford's political maps are reds, purples, yellows and pinks released from the paint box.) A digital map of a country that is revised constantly will be more useful than any printed atlas, even one updated every year. 
 But will automatic updates convey the historic worldview of mapmakers so evident in outdated reference books? 
 The Oxford Atlas of the World is a handsome relic, and its eventual disappearance will be sad to many. Resting the large, heavy volume in my lap and inhaling the ink from its coated pages offers sensuous escapism of a high order. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); RELIGION (51%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); GOOGLE INC (58%); DORLING KINDERSLEY LTD (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (70%) EARTH (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); KOSOVO (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010



621 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ARMCHAIR TRAVELER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words

BYLINE: By RICHARD B. WOODWARD

 BODY:
Oxford Atlas of the World (15th edition) Oxford University Press, 448 pages, $80 hardcover
The atlas has been going extinct even faster than the rest of its kindred published-on-paper species. MapQuest and G.P.S. devices are obviating local street guides, while Google and Digital Globe give the kind of zoomable views of earth from on high that were once for C.I.A. eyes only. In 20 years, those now willing to pay $80 for a set of world maps will very likely have pull-down touch screens in their homes, with statistics and real-time satellite video from any city or country (and maybe even a few planets) they want to call up. 
 Until then, we can sit down with the august Oxford Atlas of the World. Billing itself as the only one to be ''updated annually'' -- this new edition is the first to feature an independent Kosovo -- it has been working hard to compete with materials available online. 
 There are 179 pages of regional maps, plans of 69 major cities (from Santiago, Chile, to Seoul, South Korea), a gazetteer of 220 nations (with notes on politics, religions, languages and economies), a section on world geography (on everything from climate change and global warming to comparative standards of living), and a snazzy section of satellite images. 
 In contrast to some United States publishers, which cover the 50 states in finer detail than other places, Oxford provides an evenhanded tour of the planet, albeit with a subtle European bias. This more cosmic attitude may be necessary for keeping America's self-importance in check but is not so helpful for, say, bringing Denver into sharper focus. Both the Rand McNally and the Hammond atlases are less expensive, and the maps and data on countries are better integrated in the National Geographic Family Reference Atlas of the World.
 In terms of knockout imagery, none of them can rival ''Map: Satellite'' from Dorling Kindersley, with its aerial photographs of tsunamis and rain forests (and a hologram on the cover). Long gone are the days -- and good riddance to them -- when atlases showed empires and their colonies in contiguous colors. Landmasses are now hued in a narrow, and egalitarian, band of greens and browns. (Only in Oxford's political maps are reds, purples, yellows and pinks released from the paint box.) A digital map of a country that is revised constantly will be more useful than any printed atlas, even one updated every year. 
 But will automatic updates convey the historic worldview of mapmakers so evident in outdated reference books? 
 The Oxford Atlas of the World is a handsome relic, and its eventual disappearance will be sad to many. Resting the large, heavy volume in my lap and inhaling the ink from its coated pages offers sensuous escapism of a high order. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); RELIGION (51%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); GOOGLE INC (58%); DORLING KINDERSLEY LTD (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (70%) EARTH (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); KOSOVO (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2010



622 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Political Science

BYLINE: By PETER DIZIKES. 
Peter Dizikes is a science journalist based in Boston.

 BODY:
THE ART AND POLITICS OF SCIENCE
 By Harold Varmus
 Illustrated. 256 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95
 A smiling Harold Varmus looks out from the cover of his memoir, ''The Art and Politics of Science.'' Behind him hangs a copy of Jacques-Louis David's celebrated portrait of Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier, the French chemist. Varmus is one of our leading scientific figures, a Nobel Prize-winning cancer researcher who advises President Obama, but I'm not sure this is an auspicious image. Lavoisier's own entanglement in politics led to his beheading during the French Revolution. Thankfully, Varmus seems quite adroit in public matters. 
 He has also written a perceptive book about science and its civic value, arriving as the White House renews its acquaintance with empiricism. Varmus recounts his laboratory career and tenure as director of the National Institutes of Health, then surveys topical issues like stem-cell research. One implication of this book is that far from disconnecting politics and science, we should find better ways of linking them. 
 Varmus, who is now president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, starts with his life story and his research. Although his mother died of cancer as his career studying it began, he avoids melodrama and simply gets on with a brisk narrative of scientific exploration. In the 1970s, Varmus and colleagues discovered a series of genes, called proto-oncogenes, that can cause cancer. Grasping the mechanics of this has helped us develop drugs for numerous cancers, including leukemia and lung cancer. 
 In a modest tone, Varmus places his work within a dense web of related discoveries. Any general reader should emerge better informed about cancer, genetics and perhaps the scientific life, which Varmus has found to be highly collaborative. The pleasure of science, he believes, lies in the ''balance between the imagination of the individual and the conviction of the community.'' If only civic affairs were so harmonious. 
 Varmus served as Bill Clinton's director of the National Institutes of Health from 1993 to 1999, gaining plaudits when the government doubled the agency's budget. Here Varmus calls himself the ''lucky beneficiary'' of economic good times (and, he might have added, a long-term shift toward funding the life sciences). His account of this period is a checklist of deeds and events, sprinkled with a true scientist's bemusement about Washington's power players. Representative John D. Dingell, for instance, ''claimed to show his fondness for the N.I.H. . . . by investigating it vigorously and frequently.'' 
 The book concludes with faster-paced chapters on issues including stem-cell science and cloning, as well as global health programs. On stem cells and cloning, Varmus argues forcefully that federal regulations have been too restrictive, and defends the discipline's practices. ''Few arguments can seem as insulting to medical scientists,'' he asserts, ''as the claim that we are ethically irresponsible when we toil to extract stem cells from donated early human embryos, which would otherwise be destroyed, and use them for beneficial, potentially lifesaving purposes.'' 
 Well, that's politics. That we can resolve research questions rationally does not mean the moral or economic consequences of science offer a clear consensus. Varmus's book illustrates this distinction nicely, if not thematically. In recent years, the ''politics of science'' has been a shorthand phrase denoting political interference in basic research. But other politics of science (there are many) involve its benefits, which are not magically distributed throughout society. 
 This has been a Varmus concern too, though as N.I.H. director his effort to establish international programs to combat malaria and launch a global ''science corps'' foundered as a result of turf battles and financing problems. The same question about science's benefits applies to the United States at a time of new drugs, stem-cell advances and genetic testing. For self-described ''left-liberal'' figures like Varmus, and for Obama, the unresolved challenge is to pursue a vision of social justice through science while maintaining its bipartisan support. That will require expertise not just in the art of science or the politics of science, but also in the art of politics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONCOLOGY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); CANCER (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (89%); CLONING (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (88%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); LEUKEMIA (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LUNG CANCER (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (67%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (64%); BUDGETS (62%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (56%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Art and Politics of Science, The (Book); Art and Politics of Science, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



623 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: A Stimulating Week Feb. 8-14

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Senate's version of the economic stimulus package cleared a key procedural hurdle on Monday and was assured of passage by the aye votes of three moderate Republicans. 
 BEHIND THE NEWSPresident Obama set aside his efforts to coax bipartisan support for the stimulus plan, which bore meager fruit (the House version passed with no Republican votes at all). Instead, he slammed critics of the plan and pressed for swift approval as he visited recession-battered Elkhart, Ind., and held his first formal news conference since taking office. Though ''no plan is perfect,'' he said, there was no time to lose in nitpicking it. ''Failure to act will only deepen the crisis,'' he said. 
 THE NEWS Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner outlined a revised financial bailout plan on Tuesday that would flood the banking system with as much as $2.5 trillion, much of it public money, to shore up struggling banks' capital, take distressed assets off their hands and help them lend more to businesses and consumers. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Basic questions about how it all would work were left unanswered, most notably how the Treasury would decide what prices to pay for assets that are now effectively unsellable. Disappointed by the vagueness of the plan, investors hammered the stock market, with the S.&P. 500 falling 4.9 percent. 
 THE NEWS Racing to get a final stimulus bill to President Obama by the Washington's Birthday holiday, House and Senate negotiators reached a deal on Wednesday to reconcile the two houses' differing versions of the bill.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The price tag was set at $789 billion, smaller than either the House or Senate versions. To appease the three Senate Republicans whose votes they need, including Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, above, Democratic leaders trimmed back education and health care spending while preserving tax breaks. The cuts made some Democratic lawmakers angry enough to briefly snag the deal until they, too, won some concessions.
 THE NEWS Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire withdrew his name from nomination as secretary of commerce on Thursday, saying he could not see eye to eye with President Obama on the stimulus plan and other matters. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Gregg, who is strongly conservative on fiscal policy, would have been the third Republican to join Mr. Obama's cabinet; instead, he became the third cabinet nominee to withdraw. He said that it had become clear to him, given his policy differences with the president, ''that it would be very difficult, day in and day out, to serve in this cabinet or any cabinet'' and added, ''It was my mistake, obviously, to say yes.'' 
 THE NEWS After last-minute tweaks shaved the cost by another $2 billion, the $787 billion stimulus bill was hurriedly passed on Friday by both the House (again without a single Republican vote in favor) and the Senate, and went to the president for his signature.
 BEHIND THE NEWS No one seemed overjoyed with the final product. Democrats were relieved to have passed a bill, whatever its faults; they said it was badly needed. Though a huge part of the package was devoted to tax cuts rather than spending, Republicans argued that all it would stimulate was government waste. In the end, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, above, said the measure ''can be summed up in one word: Jobs.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BANK FAILURES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); RECESSION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JUDD GREGG (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



624 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Obama Looks to Next Steps in Recovery Plan

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President Obama on Saturday called the $787 billion stimulus bill passed by Congress a ''major milestone'' and signaled that he planned to move forward quickly on the next phases of his economic recovery plan. 
 ''This historic step won't be the end of what we do to turn our economy around, but rather the beginning,'' Mr. Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address. ''The problems that led us into this crisis are deep and widespread, and our response must be equal to the task.''
 To succeed, Mr. Obama said, the administration's plan must include bailing out banks to get credit flowing and stemming the tide of home foreclosures that have swept the country.
 Mr. Obama, who is spending the weekend in Chicago with his family, is expected to sign the bill early this week, possibly on Tuesday in Denver, Democratic officials said. In addition to Denver, the president is expected to visit Phoenix as part of a road trip to try to drum up support for other elements of the plan.
 The White House said Mr. Obama would outline his proposal to spend at least $50 billion to prevent foreclosures in a speech on Wednesday in Arizona, one of the states hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. 
 Administration officials were already sounding defensive about the reception the foreclosure plan would receive, given that Wall Street reacted sourly to the bank bailout plan that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner unveiled last week.
 ''It's not intended to be measured by one day's market scorekeeping, but instead to ensure that the 10,000 Americans each day that have their homes foreclosed on -- and the millions more that are barely getting by -- are protected,'' Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said on Friday.
 Also on Friday, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America said they would halt foreclosures through March 6. 
 Administration officials have not provided many details of the housing component of the economic plan, but they have been fielding complaints for days, including from Congressional Democrats, that the absence of detail helped fuel the drop in the stock market immediately after Mr. Geithner's announcement. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, told reporters on Friday that the goal of the foreclosure plan would be ''to get people to where they are paying 31 percent'' of their income on their mortgage. 
 Mr. Frank, who had dinner last week with Mr. Geithner and the housing and urban development secretary, Shaun Donovan, said he expected that the Obama plan would seek to get lenders to write down a mortgage's principal rather than interest rates, with the goal of helping to reduce the chances of default. 
 In his address on Saturday, Mr. Obama said he would also be seeking to take on the federal deficit -- a tall order given the stimulus package that just passed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



625 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: SELECTIONS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 559 words

 BODY:
100 DAYS For Barack Obama, the first president of the Internet age, staying in touch means holding onto his BlackBerry. It's a healthy sign that he overcame security and bureaucratic reservations to keep this device, for he is quite right in saying that it is too easy for presidents to become isolated in ''the bubble'' of the presidency.
 Being comfortable in one's own skin does not guarantee a successful presidency. If it did, George W. Bush would be accorded higher marks than he receives from most historians and the American people. But optimism, a sense of normalcy, and a determination to keep in touch with the people you have inspired are useful attributes for any president. They helped F.D.R. become, in his words, first ''Dr. New Deal'' and then ''Dr. Win the War.'' They helped Ronald Reagan overcome the pessimism of malaise and the dismay of recession. And they have kept Americans rooting for Mr. Obama despite some early stumbles. 
 -- Lou Cannon, 
 from ''Get Out of the (White) House''
 HEADING HOME Before we get self-righteous, we should look in the mirror and ask ourselves whether exposing Alex Rodriguez, or any player for that matter, is worth stepping all over rights, privacy, confidentiality and anonymity. 
 There is a lot of outrage out there about Alex. Not surprising. But what really surprises me is the lack of outrage about how a confidential and anonymous test could be made public. 
 We seem to gloss over the fact that these players voted to reopen a collectively bargained agreement in a preliminary effort to address the drug problem. When privileged information is shared like this it hurts anyone who has expected privacy in any circumstance, just as when someone made Britney Spears's medical records public.
 -- Doug Glanville, 
 from ''Understanding A-Rod''
 THE WILD SIDE It strikes me as one of the ironies of modern life that professorial faculty members, who by and large lean to the left politically, accept such a brutal free-market approach to their livelihood. If they can't raise grants to support their research every year, they won't get paid. So not only do they have to worry about publish or perish, it's also financing or famine, in the very real sense that without a grant there might not be food on the family dinner table! 
 It's almost like a small business -- each faculty member is essentially running an enterprise for which he or she must find revenue (grants), manage finances, balance the books and pay expenses like salaries, tuition, rent and even taxes to the university for the space used.
 -- Stephen Quake, from 
 ''Letting Scientists Off the Leash''
 TALK SHOW I've had noted and famous pairs of guests on together, each of whom, I knew, had low opinions of the other's viscera. But, side by side on national television, they could be counted on to spout flowery compliments at each other. (''This woman sitting here defines the phrase 'movie star,' '' etc.) 
 These two great writers sitting there demonstrate the real thing. They praise each other, but in a way that transcends the usual embarrassing, chat-show, face-to-face, fulsome public flattery. (Both would strike out about a half-pound of my intensifying adjectives from that sentence.) They elevate praise to an art form.
 -- Dick Cavett, from ''When Updike 
 and Cheever Came to Visit''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); FAMINE (73%); HISTORY (70%); MEDICAL RECORDS (70%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TUITION FEES (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



626 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: At $24.6 Billion, State's Stimulus Aid Exceeds Expectations

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
New York State stands to get about $24.6 billion for Medicaid, education, transportation and other priorities over the next two years as part of the federal stimulus package, an increase of more than $3 billion from an earlier estimate, according to a state analysis released on Saturday. 
 The anticipated aid would provide much-needed relief to the state as it faces a projected $48 billion budget gap over the next three years, including up to $14.2 billion in the current fiscal year. 
 Gov. David A. Paterson's office said it was too soon to know how the new money would affect the deficit, as the administration and the Legislature work on a deal to decide how to spend it. The aid was also unlikely to end the battle over the governor's proposed cuts, including those to hospitals and social services, as he tries to reduce government spending. 
 ''This funding does not absolve us of our responsibility at the state level to bring spending in line with what our government can afford over the long term,'' Mr. Paterson said in a statement.
 The financial package was higher than the $21 billion projection that Senator Charles E. Schumer made earlier this week after the House and Senate struck a deal with the Obama administration on the $789 economic stimulus package. ''Our numbers by design were conservative, but any way you slice it, this bill is great for New York,'' Mr. Schumer said on Saturday. 
 According to the analysis, the package includes $11 billion more in Medicaid financing spread out over 27 months. Daniel Sisto, president of the Healthcare Association of New York State, said the increase could be used to eliminate the roughly $1.3 billion in savings the governor's budget anticipated from reducing spending for hospitals, nursing homes and home care. But the governor's office said it was unclear what effect the aid would have on the projected health care cuts. 
 Officials were more certain about the $2.5 billion the state is expected to receive to restore education cuts, which they said more than covered the $770 million in reductions the governor had called for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); NURSING HOMES (73%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (68%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (63%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (74%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



627 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: State and Its Unions Are Split on Job Reductions

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 WHEN Gov. M. Jodi Rell announced last week that she wanted to create a voluntary early retirement incentive program for about 9,000 state workers age 55 and older, public employee union leaders said they were surprised. 
 For the last several weeks, union leaders and Rell administration officials have been wrestling in closed-door negotiations with the governor's proposal to gain $295 million in union concessions to help close the state's yawning budget gap.
 Union leaders said that Rell's announcement violated a pledge made by both sides during the negotiations to not talk publicly about matters under discussion. 
 ''That is counterproductive,'' said Sharon M. Palmer, president of AFT Connecticut, a public service workers union with about 6,500 members. ''It doesn't get you where you need to go with this kind of budget gap.''
 Rell administration officials declined to comment on charges from the union that Mrs. Rell, a Republican, had violated any confidentiality agreement with them. ''The governor is looking to work with the unions in a cooperative manner,'' said Mrs. Rell's spokesman, Adam Liegeot.
 State officials estimate that about 9,000 of the state's more than 54,000 employees would be eligible for the early retirement program.
 The governor met with legislative leaders last week to discuss the proposal, but Christopher G. Donovan, speaker of the House and a Democrat from Meriden, said Mrs. Rell wasn't able to provide many details.
 Mrs. Rell told the leaders her early retirement plan could save the state about $25 million in the last quarter of the current fiscal year, which ends on June 30, and approximately $100 million for a full 12 months.
 The governor has asked for swift legislative action, but Mr. Donovan said lawmakers did not want to move toward a vote until they saw more details about the early retirement proposal.
 Earlier this month, Mrs. Rell said that she would seek union givebacks as part of her plan to close an $8 billion projected gap in her two-year, proposed $38 billion budget. She also said that she would be relying on some $2 billion in new federal aid, $1.3 billion from the state's rainy day account, along with a combination of spending cuts and fee increases. 
 Mrs. Rell said that she wanted to avoid raising taxes, which prompted leaders of the 13 public employee unions involved in concession negotiations to write a letter to legislative leaders saying state taxes must go up in order to avoid drastic cuts in essential services.
 The governor has proposed avoiding widepsread layoffs of state workers by eliminating 800 state jobs through attrition. 
 The fiscal pressures will be even greater if Connecticut does not get as much aid in the federal stimulus package as state officials anticipate.
 In her Feb. 4 budget address, Mrs. Rell spoke directly to state employees: ''You are not the reason, not the cause, of our economic troubles. But you must be a part of the solution -- and sooner rather than later.''
 ''We're trying to be as open-minded as we can,'' said Ms. Palmer, the union leader. ''Both in representing our members and in helping the people of the state of Connecticut.''
 Union leaders have declined to discuss details of the ongoing negotiations. The primary focus of the labor coalition is on pension and health insurance issues, but Ms. Palmer said the talks have ranged widely. 
 ''Anything you could possibly imagine is on the table,'' she said.
 Ms. Palmer described the negotiations as ''cordial, open, friendly.''
 Robert L. Genuario, Mrs. Rell's budget director, is leading a team of about a dozen state negotiators. According to Steve Rief, president of the 1,160-member Connecticut State Police Union, the closed-door talks usually include about 30 union representatives. 
 Officials on all sides said the concession talks were going far better than during the 2002 state fiscal crisis. That year, angry negotiations between then-Gov. John G. Rowland and the unions ended in a stalemate and the state laid off about 2,800 workers.
 ''The atmosphere back then was so poisonous that there was no trust,'' recalled Martin M. Looney, the Senate majority leader and a New Haven Democrat.
 The 2002 budget deficit was resolved in part by an early retirement program for state employees that some critics believe left crucial state agencies with far too few experienced workers.
 ''Some state departments still haven't recovered from 2002,'' Mr. Looney said. ''They've been understaffed since that time.''
 Mr. Looney said a major cost reduction agreement between the state and its unions was essential. ''If there aren't concessions, most likely there will be layoffs,'' he said. ''There's no way around that at this point.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN TALKS: Robert L. Genuario, the governor's budget director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (52%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



628 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Obama, With a Pile Of Chips

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- It is not too early to ask whether President Obama's robust supply of political capital has begun to dissipate. Predecessors with bigger victory margins have lost it this quickly.
 Few remember the early travails of Franklin Roosevelt after he swept 57 percent of the vote and all but six states against Herbert Hoover in 1932. But political insiders scorned his extended post-election passivity -- presidents weren't inaugurated until March then -- including a Caribbean yacht cruise while the Great Depression festered.
 ''By early February, the president-elect was in political trouble,'' Jonathan Alter wrote in ''The Defining Moment,'' his history of F.D.R.'s first 100 days. And then Roosevelt executed a leadership tour de force that lifted the nation's spirits, swept his New Deal agenda through Congress and durably transformed the federal role in American society.
 In other words, it may not be too early to ask whether Tom Daschle's tax problems, Judd Gregg's ideological misgivings, Wall Street's catcalls and the near-complete Republican rejection of Mr. Obama's economic stimulus package add up to the depletion of his momentum. But it is too early to answer with much confidence. 
 Presidential mojo is an elusive and ephemeral force that flows from many sources. It derives largely from numbers: the size of the election victory, the poll ratings, the breadth of partisan support in Congress. By those measures, Mr. Obama's 53 percent popular vote majority, mid-60 percent job approval ratings, and solid House and Senate majorities compare favorably at this stage with the profile of any new president post-World War II.
 But the sustainability of those power gauges can be inversely related to the scale of the political challenges a president faces -- sometimes exhausting his capital in the first year of a White House term. The recession and two wars facing Mr. Obama easily match the stagflation and cold war challenges that confronted Ronald Reagan in 1981, and may exceed those of any predecessor since F.D.R.
 Moreover, presidential momentum can drain rapidly -- or replenish -- depending on unplanned events, often partly or entirely outside the president's control. The belatedly disclosed tax problems that felled Mr. Daschle, and the about-face by Senator Gregg that ended his nomination for commerce secretary, only hint at the potential for off-script disruptions, which often come in the realm of foreign policy.
 The alchemy that translates those ingredients into presidential success defies consistent prediction. After John F. Kennedy narrowly defeated Richard Nixon in 1960, Americans rallied behind him; his initial 72 percent job approval rating was the highest Gallup has recorded for a new president, before or since.
 Mr. Kennedy retained that high standing through his first 100 days, despite the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in April 1961. Yet the victories he achieved from a Democratic Congress remained modest.
 The rap on Kennedy was ''too much profile, not enough courage,'' recalled the presidential scholar Fred Greenstein. Only after he was martyred in Dallas two years later did his proposals on civil rights sweep through Congress under his less-charismatic successor, Lyndon B. Johnson.
 Having lost the popular vote to Al Gore, George W. Bush entered the White House with far less political capital than Kennedy. And yet before summer he muscled through a closely divided Congress the income tax cuts that became the signature economic policy of his eight-year presidency. Four months later, the 9/11 attacks gave him enough standing eventually to take the nation to war against Iraq. By 2008, the difficulties of that endeavor had helped wipe out his influence with the public, Congress and both political parties.
 Entering office in 1993, Bill Clinton occupied a kind of middle ground in presidential sway. He ousted the incumbent, George H. W. Bush, in 1992, but split the ''change'' vote with Ross Perot. An early furor over gays in the military drained away some of his political energy, as did the upending of his first two choices for attorney general. 
 Later that year Mr. Clinton managed to win narrow approval of his economic plan, but his universal health care initiative collapsed, and discontented voters turned the House and Senate over to Republicans in 1994. One lesson for new presidents, in the words of Howard Paster, a Clinton White House lobbyist: ''Congress swallows better in small bites.'' 
 Yet the ''crisis presidents'' to whom Mr. Obama is most appropriately compared don't have the luxury of serving bite-size initiatives. In 1981, Ronald Reagan needed every bit of his political capital -- and a booster shot of good will from an assassination attempt -- to win his package of deep tax and budget cuts. ''Reagan had great momentum, and even greater momentum after he came back from being shot,'' recalled his speechwriter Ken Khachigian. ''Still, there was resistance.'' 
 In Roosevelt's case, it was the application of supple leadership skills to a public terrified of financial ruin that allowed him win all 15 items on his 100-days priority list; the Emergency Banking Act swept through the House by voice vote. In the whirl of action Roosevelt moved to end Prohibition by prodding Congress to legalize beer, which Mr. Alter called ''one of the least appreciated elements of how F.D.R. changed the country's psyche.''
 Aides hope that Mr. Obama's confident style and attractive young family may similarly help provide a measure of political buoyancy apart from legislative debates over financial regulation, health care or energy. At the same time, the new president has spent much of his first month deploying the specter of a downward economic spiral to win support for his agenda.
 The outcome of the stimulus debate, punctuated by Mr. Gregg's abrupt departure from Team Obama, has already shown that neither the new president's momentum nor his overtures to Republicans has yet produced national consensus. But he's pushing ahead with the more difficult task of winning support for his version of a bailout for the financial industry, a $700 billion political albatross whose price tag will only grow higher. 
 ''Obama has no choice but to spend his capital now,'' said the media consultant Mark McKinnon, who advised both of the younger Mr. Bush's presidential campaigns. ''The success of his first term will be almost solely determined by whether he can return the country's economic footing.''
 Yet objective economic data will only determine part of the president's ability to retain his influence with politicians and the public; his explanations of what's happening, and at what pace, will also play a role. ''Obama can preserve and sustain his popularity by setting the bar very low for economic recovery, and then exceeding expectations,'' said Fred Steeper, a former Bush pollster.
 The gloomy economic rhetoric of Mr. Obama's opening weeks in office tracks that strategic imperative. But he still faces the task of holding the political center, with a modicum of support from Republicans, behind his aim of greatly expanding health care coverage -- while keeping liberals in the fold for his promise of containing entitlement spending. All the while he must fight through -- as he has on the Daschle and Gregg embarrassments of recent days -- what Mr. Greenstein laments as ''the increasingly microscopic nature of political analysis'' on cable television and the Internet.
 THE bright spot for Mr. Obama is that the communications and social networking strengths he and his team demonstrated during the campaign may fit the task of preserving presidential initiative. In his new book, ''Dispatches From the War Room,'' the pollster Stanley Greenberg plumbs the experiences of past clients, including Mr. Clinton, Tony Blair and Nelson Mandela, in breaking through the stalemates that so often frustrate the ambition of new administrations.
 ''Leaders with projects and an electoral mandate keep people with them by mobilizing, educating, persuading,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''It has actually been a long time since we've had a president with that kind of momentum that has carried through to pass major elements of the reform agenda.''
 With enactment of the stimulus package, ''Obama will have done this'' in less than a month, Mr. Greenberg added. ''Now he has to keep support for much tougher measures.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



629 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: In Gingrich Mold, a New Voice For Solid Resistance in G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The last time Congressional Republicans were this out of power, they turned to a college professor from Georgia, Newt Gingrich, to lead the opposition, first against President Bill Clinton in a budget battle in 1993, and then back into the majority the following year.
 As Republicans confronted President Obama in another budget battle last week, their leadership included another new face: Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, who as the party's chief vote wrangler is as responsible as anyone for the tough line the party has taken in this first legislative standoff with Mr. Obama. This battle has vaulted Mr. Cantor to the front lines of his party as it tries to recover from the losses of November. 
 As Republican whip, Mr. Cantor succeeded again on Friday in denying the White House the support of a single House Republican on the stimulus bill. That was a calculated challenge to the president, who, in his weekly address on Saturday, hailed the bill as ''an ambitious plan at a time we badly need it.'' 
 Mr. Cantor said he had studied Mr. Gingrich's years in power and had been in regular touch with him as he sought to help his party find the right tone and message. Indeed, one of Mr. Gingrich's leading victories in unifying his caucus against Mr. Clinton's package of tax increases to balance the budget in 1993 has been echoed in the events of the last few weeks.
 ''I talk to Newt on a regular basis because he was in the position that we are in: in the extreme minority,'' he said.
 The Republicans can certainly count some victories, although symbolic ones. Even White House aides said Mr. Cantor and his team had been successful in seizing on spending items in the stimulus bill to sow doubts about it with the public. 
 The fact that House Republicans have stood firm against Mr. Obama suggests just how unified the caucus is, though Mr. Gingrich, in an interview, said Democratic leaders like Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, did more to unify Republicans than anything Republicans did.
 ''I'd like to tell you Cantor did a brilliant job, but the truth is that Pelosi and Obey pushed the members into his arms,'' Mr. Gingrich said. But, he added, ''They have been good at developing alternatives so they don't leave their guys out there chanting no.''
 The Republican Party is arguably weaker today than it was in 1993, given Mr. Obama's popularity and the enormous weight Republicans are carrying after eight years under President George W. Bush. Even as Mr. Cantor was urging Republicans to oppose Mr. Obama on this signature plan, he offered praise of the president, suggesting that Republicans should be careful to avoid being labeled obstructionist. 
 ''I think people out there across the country elected this president because he inspired the notion that we can change,'' he said. ''Not to be so trite as to invoke his campaign slogan, but I do think there was some substance behind it in terms of what people thought in voting for him. 
 ''Banking off that mood of the country right now, I think it's incumbent upon us to reach out to him and see if we can work together.''
 Mr. Cantor, along with the House minority leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, faces the challenge of trying to lead a shrinking and increasingly conservative caucus. The party also faces the burden of trying to advance what Mr. Cantor describes as its bedrock value -- smaller government -- in the face of considerable evidence that the American public wants an increasingly active government to deal with the economic crisis.
 And it is Mr. Cantor who is pushing the party in a direction that Democrats, and some Republicans, say is risky: almost lock-step opposition to Mr. Obama's economic plan. Democrats have already made clear that they intend to use those votes against Republicans in 2010, and sooner, with advertisements noting the middle-class tax cuts included in the bill.
 Mr. Cantor's increasing prominence is in many ways a reminder of the difficult time the party faces after losing the presidential election and in the absence of any high-profile Republican leaders in the House or the Senate. Mr. Boehner routinely defers to him at news conferences, reflecting the concern of Republicans that they put forward new and relatively young faces. (Mr. Cantor is 45, but looks younger.)
 Mr. Cantor, who has exhibited an eye for winning attention, has rushed in to fill the leadership vacuum with a daily diet of news conferences, interviews, speeches on the House floor and television appearances. ''ALERT: Cantor Holds Economic Recovery Roundtable,'' a news release from his office announced, in describing an economic forum he will hold on Wall Street this week.
 He is the only Jewish Republican in the House. This has created a thoroughly unlikely circumstance for the Republican Party, given that its other most prominent face these days is the new chairman of the Republican National Committee, Michael Steele, the first African-American to hold the post.
 Mr. Cantor, who grew up in Richmond, is soft-spoken with a whisper of a Southern accent. A lawyer, he served in the Virginia House of Delegates before being elected to Congress in 2000, filling the seat once held by James Madison, as he likes to remind people. 
 In discussing the Republican defeat, he said: ''I don't think it was an outright rejection of what I call common sense conservative principles. And as a Virginian, holding James Madison's seat, I don't think it was a rejection of the principles upon which this country was built.''
 Mr. Cantor is certainly different from Mr. Gingrich in some significant ways. ''He's not Newt -- giving off sparks every 15 seconds,'' said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax reform, an influential conservative group. ''While I never bought the criticism of Newt that being an ideas factory meant he suffered from A.D.D. -- I think it was an unfair rap on him -- to his advantage, Cantor is seen as both an ideas person and steady and stable.''
 Beyond that, friends of both say that Mr. Gingrich is more intellectually adventurous than Mr. Cantor, but also more prone to overreach. 
 ''I would say my manner is such that it would seem to be a little more demure,'' Mr. Cantor said.
 Demure or not, Mr. Cantor's press secretary was forced to apologize last week after e-mailing to a reporter a video filled with vulgar language making fun of labor unions, in response to an advertisement from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees pressing Republicans to support the Obama plan.
 Mr. Cantor acknowledged that Mr. Obama had won points from the public for appearing less partisan than Republicans in this battle, but he warned that the president should not draw the wrong lesson. 
 ''I think it would be short-sighted for him to take away from a zero vote that he shouldn't even mess with us anymore,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip, with members of his staff Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Representative Eric Cantor, left, in a meeting last week about the economic stimulus plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Newt Gingrich, left, and Senator Bob Dole just after the 1994 vote that put Republicans in control of Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DURICKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TAX LAW (73%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); ERIC CANTOR (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); DAVE OBEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



630 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: In Defense Of Secrecy

BYLINE: By NOAH FELDMAN. 
Noah Feldman, a contributing writer, teaches law at Harvard University and is a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
Given the pervasive secrecy of the Bush-Cheney administration, and the sorry consequences of that disposition, President Barack Obama's early emphasis on openness in government seems almost inevitable. One of the first official communications issued by the new administration, on Jan. 21, ordered government agencies to adopt a presumption in favor of disclosure when responding to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests and called for new FOIA guidelines to replace those promulgated under Bush. A later directive instructed the heads of all government agencies to strive for ''transparency and open government.'' Ornamenting the first order was a quotation from the great progressive reformer Justice Louis Brandeis: ''Sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants.'' 
 There is something charming about Obama's reference to his fellow Harvard Law School graduate, right down to the fussy, lawyerly precision of the exact quote, which is often rendered more straightforwardly as ''sunlight is the best disinfectant.'' And Obama's instinct for candor and openness is certainly a refreshing change from the shadowy practices of the last administration. At the same time, Brandeis's metaphor, based on a medical theory now long refuted (alcohol is a much better disinfectant), can be taken too far. The effective operation of even the most democratic government requires secrecy and surprise as well as transparency and predictability. 
 On the surface, it might seem that more and better information about the government's decisions (and decision-making processes) is always preferable, especially if the information is provided before events transpire. As good-government advocates are right to remind us, if the public learns of an important decision only after it has been made, advocacy groups and concerned citizens cannot influence it. They can only give their endorsement or disapproval after the fact and hope it has some effect the next time around. When it comes to the proposal and drafting of legislation, we expect public engagement, even as we acknowledge that special-interest groups can use that process to torpedo innovative laws in the way the insurance industry brought down health care reform during President Clinton's first term.
 The value of transparency also applies to the financial markets -- which is what Brandeis had in mind when he spoke of ''sunlight.'' The derivatives that gave rise to the current economic crisis were opaque to almost everyone. Ascertaining the true value of such complex instruments was (and remains) mind-bendingly difficult. Indeed, in the absence of a central clearinghouse or of regulatory disclosure requirements -- of the sort now being proposed by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner -- it was impossible for anyone to know just how many obligations were owed and owned, and by whom. 
 Yet there are many circumstances in which secrets are critical. Consider the quotidian business of government inspection: it requires the element of surprise, or else regulated industries could game the system by preparing for oversight on specified days and places. A grander example comes from diplomacy. Whether to negotiate with Iran is an important topic of debate, but the actual negotiation, and even the steps leading up to it, cannot successfully be conducted under the glare of public scrutiny. Neither side would take the risks necessary for real engagement as long as its high-risk efforts could be exposed to denunciation and ridicule if it failed.
 The financial bailout has its own needs for secrecy. It is essential for Congress to debate what sorts of industries or companies should be saved and how, and it must authorize the money, just as it must pay for a war. But the decisions to bail out AIG and to let Lehman Brothers fail, whatever their merits, were the sorts of immediate, crisis-driven judgment calls that could not have reasonably been subjected to extensive public debate, or that would have been improved by public lobbying and interest-group advocacy. If specific companies could lobby for bailouts, and their competitors could argue against, the bailouts would turn into political football -- which is what arguably distorted the effort to bail out the auto companies.
 The balance of transparency and secrecy is not always easy to strike, of course. Consider the question of whether to make public the interrogation tactics to be used on suspected terrorists. Public discussion and deliberation is crucial to ensure that interrogation will proceed within the bounds of law and without torture. Yet it does not follow that the specific methods we use should be shared with the public, since doing so might invite training by terrorists in how to evade or withstand them. 
 Obama presumably knows all this; his pronouncements about transparency so far have been so general as to be largely symbolic. That he issued a statement urging his subordinates to ''increase and improve opportunities for public participation in government'' without providing any specifics suggests that he wants to change the background tone of government -- but also that he recognizes the limits of transparency.
 Recognizing these limits may seem a bit cynical, especially after eight years of an administration that favored secrecy excessively and executed its policies poorly. But our constitutional system allows us to set boundaries on openness, provided the public remains the final arbiter of whether it benefits from being kept out of the loop. The test must always be whether the public, after the fact, considers itself better off -- and that judgment can be made by only the public itself, as it recently was, by way of elections. If we know more about what our government is doing in the next four years than we did in the last eight, that will be to our advantage. We shouldn't forget, though, that when it comes to secrecy, transparency, like sunlight, is only a figure of speech -- one that disappears the closer you look at it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK PIERSON
ART + COMMERCE) CHART: PUBLIC ACCESS: Percentage of respondents who regard their local and federal governments as somewhat or very secretive
somewhat or very open
 or have no opinion: (Source: Scripps Howard News Service and Ohio University, February 2008) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



631 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of Diplomacy

BYLINE: By GERSHOM GORENBERG. 
Gershom Gorenberg is the author of ''The Accidental Empire: Israel and the Birth of the Settlements, 1967-1977,'' and a senior correspondent for The American Prospect.

 BODY:
WE CAN HAVE PEACE IN THE HOLY LAND
 A Plan That Will Work
 By Jimmy Carter
 Illustrated. 228 pp. Simon & Schuster. $27
 ''You don't ever want a crisis to go to waste,'' the new White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, has said, exuberantly defining the economic meltdown as an opportunity for grand new domestic policies. The war in Gaza raises the question of whether Emanuel's boss will apply the same approach overseas. Will President Obama regard the latest Israeli-Palestinian bleeding as a symptom of an untreatable chronic disease, or as an acute crisis that proves the need for a dramatic American diplomatic initiative? 
 Jimmy Carter's advice on answering that question is clear from his title, even if he dashed this book off before the most recent war. In fact, ''We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land'' is really a short op-ed article disguised as a book. The argument, which might easily have been put in 900 words, is that Obama should follow Carter's own example, defy political calculations and throw himself into Arab-Israeli peacemaking. 
 The goal, Carter says, should be reaching a two-state solution, with the borders between Israel and the Palestinian state based on the pre-1967 armistice lines, along with minor territorial exchanges. Obama should get to work at the start of his term, put his own peace proposals on the table and persuade both parties to accept them. Carter implies that Obama must separate support for Israel from support for Israel's policies. In short, he should do what Carter says he did to bring peace between Israel and Egypt. 
 Achieving peace, Carter argues, also requires reversing two elements of George W. Bush's policy: his coldness toward negotiations between Israel and Syria, and his effort to isolate Hamas. Again, he presents himself as a model for Obama, since he met with the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, and with Hamas leaders during his Middle East tour last year. Carter describes, albeit altogether too briefly, Hamas's terror campaign against Israeli civilians. (In general, he has an easier time talking about Israeli obstacles to peace than Palestinian ones.) But without Hamas's involvement, he argues, there will be no agreement. And with no agreement in sight, even moderate Palestinians are beginning to consider the one-state alternative: demanding full political rights in Israel, which would lose its Jewish majority and become a binational state. 
 Carter's counsel lacks a couple of critical elements. Nonetheless, it has much to recommend it. The Gaza crisis is a reminder, as if another were needed, that ignoring this conflict is equivalent to waiting for it to explode again, with shock waves felt across the entire region. While a peace initiative may look risky, it might actually be the most prudent course the new administration could pursue. 
 Unfortunately, Carter's book reads as if it had first been spoken into a recorder for a couple of weeks, with the author working mainly from memory and his diary. Much of ''We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land'' is a listing of events, usually meetings held by Carter with important people. It's strange that a former president of the United States feels such a need to name-drop. 
 A beginning student of the Middle East should not learn diplomatic history from this text. In Carter's telling, the Egyptian president Anwar Sadat went to Jerusalem at his prodding. More objective accounts portray Sadat as making an end run around Carter's stubborn intent to reconvene the Geneva peace conference. 
 Yet it was Carter who convinced Sadat that he would have to recognize Israel to get the Sinai back. And at Camp David in 1978, Carter succeeded in reaching the goal that eluded Bill Clinton at Camp David 22 years later -- cajoling an Israeli and an Arab leader to make peace. This required deep American involvement, driven by the president. The curious thing about Carter's history is that he can be wrong on the details and right about the conclusions. 
 The agreement with Egypt arguably improved Israel's security as much as any other single event in its history. Yet a portion of American Jewry has never forgiven Carter for his success. This hints at a key lacuna in Carter's agenda: though he got into the peacemaking business as a politician, he gives too little attention to the need for building political support for a diplomatic initiative -- among voters at home as much as among Israelis and Palestinians. 
 Indirectly, Carter's title also hints at a second lacuna. Looking for a neutral name for the area between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean, he chooses ''Holy Land,'' a phrase from Christian tradition. Carter's perspective is explicitly religious. Though that can irritate secular observers, it has served him well. His faith helped him build personal connections both to Sadat and to the Israeli leader Menachem Begin, despite Begin's intransigence. Yet when he finally presents his outline of a peace agreement here, he makes no new, creative proposal for the future of the holy place claimed by Jews as the Temple Mount and by Muslims as Haram al-Sharif. Given Carter's sensitivity to religious issues, this is surprising and disappointing. 
 Then again, an op-ed article can't answer every question, even an article stretched as long as this one. Not accidentally, the publication date for ''We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land'' was Jan. 20. Its most important intended reader should take seriously Carter's advice to pursue peace, while applying his own considerably greater skills to building a constituency for that effort.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anwar Sadat, Jimmy Carter and Menachem Begin at the White House after the signing of the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel on March 26, 1979. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAUGHERTY /ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HAMAS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (55%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (72%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EGYPT (92%); SYRIA (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



632 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Oval Newlywed Game

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 The etiquette breach was not widely noticed, swallowed by the cacophony over the economy.
 But Joe Biden no doubt felt the sting when Barack Obama dissed him again in public.
 The new president is so elegant, and so full of comity, even to his foes, that when he is simply a tad ungracious, it jumps out.
 At his news conference last Monday, Mr. Obama was asked by Fox's Major Garrett about the vice president's startling assertion that even if he and the president do ''everything right,'' ''there's still a 30 percent chance we're going to get it wrong.'' 
 Admittedly, it must be an adjustment for the president, a detached observer who ''travels light,'' as friends put it, to be yoked to such a garrulous social animal.
 It can't be easy for someone with a highly defined superego to be bound to the wacky Biden id, for one so disciplined to be tied to one so undisciplined, for a man so coolly unsentimental to be paired with someone so exuberantly sentimental.
 And yet, the minute the president began to laugh and answer Garrett, I feared Joe would be the butt.
 ''I don't remember exactly what Joe was referring to,'' said Mr. Obama, who couldn't resist adding, ''not surprisingly.''
 It was the ''not surprisingly'' that was surprisingly snarky.
 The president had already used his ''disappointed parent'' routine with Mr. Biden in public, looking reproachful and tapping Joe on the back when he made a benign joke, as he swore in White House staffers, about his memory not being as good as Chief Justice John Roberts's. Chastened, he called Justice Roberts afterward to apologize.
 After the election, when Mr. Obama made a mild joke about Nancy Reagan and seances, Mr. Biden, who was on stage as well, did not wince at his partner in public or tap him like a strict nun.
 When Mr. Biden indulges in his rhetorical overkill of repeating the same phrase three times -- the proud men and women of Scranton, he said at a recent appearance with the president, ''wanted the government to understand their problem, to understand their problem, be cognizant of the problem'' -- Mr. Obama has an air of suppressed annoyance, like an editor dying to take a red pencil to a long-winded writer. (It's an air you never see when the president appears next to more like-minded, self-contained souls like Tim Geithner.) 
 Mr. Biden's stream of consciousness can be impolitic. Politico's Glenn Thrush refers to ''the human political polygraph that is Joseph Robinette Biden.'' It can also be bracingly honest.
 Joe is nothing if not loyal. And the president should return that quality, and not leave his lieutenant vulnerable to ''Odd Couple'' parodies.
 On a recent ''Saturday Night Live'' skit, Jason Sudeikis's Biden leaned over Fred Armisen's Obama, to tell Americans: ''Look, I know $819 billion sounds like a lot of money. But it's just a tip of the iceberg.''
 Armisen's clenched Obama murmurs: ''Couldn't pick Hillary. I just couldn't.''
 Gawker, a media gossip blog, translated Monday's Garrett-Obama exchange this way: 
 ''Uh, Mr. President, Joe Biden said something yesterday about how you two will eventually destroy the world, forever. Care to comment?'' 
 ''Oh, that's just the vice president. We all know he's mentally unbalanced, right, guys? Ha ha ha ha. But seriously: He's nuts, please keep him away from sharp objects.''
 Obama advisers say that the two men get on well and that the president wants his second's candid advice. Mr. Biden considers Mr. Obama inclusive.
 But some aides joke about the care and feeding of Mr. Biden's ego, and kid about the way the vice president clings to the president's schedule. Mr. Biden puts out guidance about his schedule -- a refreshing change from the black hole of Cheney. 
 (He has also added a sitting area in his office, something the unilateral Cheney never needed, and has turned up the temperature in the vice president's house from the chilly Cheney-mandated 62.) 
 Obama aides say the president went out of his way to stroke the vice president -- who felt he helped interpret the exotic Obama for the hoi polloi during the campaign -- by putting him in charge of a middle-class working families task force.
 Still, the president should brush up on his Jane Austen. When Emma Woodhouse belittles Miss Bates, an older and poorer friend, at a picnic, Mr. Knightly pulls her aside to remonstrate. ''How could you be so insolent in your wit?'' he chides, reminding her that it is unfeeling to humble someone less fortunate in front of others who will be guided by the way she behaves.
 That's how it works ... not surprisingly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (60%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOHN ROBERTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



633 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''I think it is an important component of putting America back on its feet.''
 Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, one of three Republicans in the Senate to support the $789 billion economic stimulus bill agreed upon Wednesday.
 ''Nothing can really improve until credit begins to flow.''
 David Darst, chief investment strategist of Morgan Stanley's global wealth management group.
 ''This is what it has come to: 'Can I come to your office and have a cup of water?'''
 Larry Kirshbaum, a literary agent, on the decline of the pricey business lunch. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); LITERARY AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (71%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



634 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Messy Reality Behind Stylish Jobs

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
MUCH like its predecessors in the growing genre of television shows and movies aimed at aspiring fashionistas, ''Running in Heels,'' a new docu-series about life inside the offices of Marie Claire magazine, seems designed to disillusion anyone from thinking that all jobs in fashion are fabulous.
 In the first episode of the series, which begins March 1 on the Style Network, Samantha, a young intern from Oshkosh, Wis., nearly has a meltdown when she is sent to fetch a dress from a designer's showroom. Complaining of bloody ankles caused by, well, running in heels, she sobs to an unsympathetic taxi driver, ''This is incredibly important, sir.'' This dress has people to see.
 By now one might have thought that fashion's glamorous curtain had been torn to shreds by a number of projects depicting the sadistic treatment of underlings by venomous, underfed editors. If Meryl Streep's imperious performance in the 2006 box-office hit ''The Devil Wears Prada'' didn't accomplish the task, then ''The Fashionista Diaries,'' a 2007 series partly set at Jane magazine, and ''Stylista,'' last year's challenge-based series about interns at Elle, should have set off alarms at the National Labor Relations Board. 
 Yet the allure is still there, as confounding as the inability to resist a pair of $1,600 Prada knee-high boots.
 ''This is one industry that remains very intriguing and mysterious,'' said Joe Zee, the creative director of Elle who also plays a nastier version of himself on the ABC series ''Ugly Betty.'' ''Magazines are about making beauty, and how that happens is fascinating to a whole group of people.''
 There's a healthy dose of self-interest at work among the magazines too. 
 ''Project Runway,'' which has brought record audiences to Bravo since its debut a little more than four years ago, has also boosted advertising and readership at its magazine sponsor, Elle. And that has made other magazines, once notoriously discreet about their operations, more receptive to the deluge of proposals to go behind the scenes. Even Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue and the prototype for Ms. Streep's Miranda Priestly, allowed R. J. Cutler to film the process of compiling the magazine's September issue (its thickest and most profitable of the year) for a documentary that was shown at the Sundance Film Festival last month. 
 ''Running in Heels,'' which is produced by Left/Right Productions, the team behind ''This American Life,'' the television version of Ira Glass's quirky public radio program, strives to be a more authentic representation of what happens at a fashion magazine than its predecessors. Or at least it is meant to be more real than what was seen, for example, on ''Stylista,'' a series that was faked on a studio set because the magazine's actual offices were considered too dowdy.
 Joanna Coles, the editor in chief of Marie Claire, said she was attracted to the idea of a reality show because it seemed a novel way to promote the magazine at a time when publishing is under intense economic pressure. Marie Claire has been particularly aggressive on this front, having hired Nina Garcia, now a celebrity because of her role as the most acidic judge on ''Project Runway,'' as its fashion director last year. The magazine is also expected to take over Elle's role as a sponsor of ''Project Runway,'' although the series has been sidelined in a legal dispute between its producer, the Weinstein Company, and NBC Universal, the parent of Bravo. 
 ''Marie Claire is one of those magazines that doesn't feel as well known as it should be,'' said Ms. Coles, who has worked as a foreign correspondent for The Times of London and The Guardian and took over the magazine in 2006. The American edition of Marie Claire, an offshoot of a French title created in 1937, remains a perennial underdog to blue-chip titles like Vogue and Harper's Bazaar. 
 In ''Running in Heels'' Ms. Coles displays a knack for what makes for good viewing, pulling strings to coax celebrities to pose for the paparazzi in one episode (''That's the money shot,'' she says), allowing the camera to film her while working with a stylist to plan her daily wardrobe changes for Fashion Week in the next. She introduces herself as a ''benevolent dictator, the matron in chief to the staff, and it is my vision that informs the magazine.'' 
 Marie Claire's large cast of editors are also shown here, including Lucy Kaylin, the intimidating executive editor, who plays bad cop to senior shopping editor Zoe Glassner's good cop. Nevertheless, following a similar conceit to its predecessors, the drama unfolds mostly through the actions of the three sacrificial interns, Ashley, Talita and Samantha, who were cast, it would seem, because of their sense of aggression, entitlement or insecurity, respectively. When the plum assignments go to Samantha, Ashley -- given a pair of tickets to a runway show -- retaliates by not offering a seat to Samantha, who then mopes in her bedroom. 
 ''If you filmed it entirely from my point of view,'' Ms. Coles said, ''it would have been less interesting.'' 
 ''The intern,'' she added, ''is supposed to represent the viewer in terms of what it feels like to start out in a new job and a new city.''
 Although they walk into the real glass-and-steel Hearst Tower for the first time with their mouths agape, the interns are dispatched in short order to tasks for which they are mercilessly critiqued. The results of their first big challenge -- to conceive a story about a fashion trend using real people (read: not models) -- are deemed ''unfortunate'' by Ms. Coles in a scene that recalls Miranda's appraisal, in ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' of a spread featuring deeply unattractive paratroopers.
 ''Just because we say, 'real people,' doesn't mean they have to look like freaks,'' Ms. Coles tells the interns.
 Ms. Coles, during the interview, said she does not mind if she comes across as less than benevolent.
 ''I am who I am,'' she said. ''If people don't like me on the show, then that's fine.''
 Like fashion magazines ''Running in Heels'' and its ilk tend to gloss over less attractive details. In reality, dozens of interns come through the offices of Marie Claire each year, only to discover that the job entails nothing more interesting than carrying garment bags and making copies, and that editors, who can be unpredictable, comical, superficial beings, can also be terribly dull. 
 ''Even a job in a glamorous industry involves sitting around in a lot of windowless conference rooms talking about budget,'' said Cindi Leive, the editor in chief of Glamour, who was recently asked on an NPR quiz show, jokingly, if she was indeed a ''vindictive harridan.''
 ''It's more like one part 'Devil Wears Prada,' one part Dunder Mifflin,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Nina Garcia in the offices of Marie Claire magazine, from the new reality show ''Running in Heels.'' Right, Joanna Coles, the editor in chief of the magazine. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE STYLE NETWORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); FILM (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FESTIVALS (67%); PUBLIC RADIO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (54%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Running in Heels (TV Program); Running in Heels (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



635 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: And How He Plays or Gets Played Abroad

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- We're about to find out what the Obama Factor is worth around the world.
 The Factor is all the good will, popular support and considerable charm that Barack Obama brought to the Oval Office nearly four weeks ago. 
 At home, it's still potent. But abroad, it's questionable how far Mr. Obama can travel on promises to act as the anti-Bush, to use diplomacy and ''smart power'' before blunt force. Some of Mr. Obama's aides acknowledge that those promises will eventually collide -- perhaps first in Pakistan -- with necessities to defend American interests. 
 Even the current economic meltdown is eroding the Factor: The new director of national intelligence, Dennis C. Blair, warned the Senate last week that allies and enemies alike blame the United States for triggering the global economic crisis, and this has led to ''increased questioning of U.S. stewardship of the global economy.''
 So the question is whether Mr. Obama's arrival will change the dynamic of dealing with Washington. And that is a two-way street: Allies as well as regimes at odds with the United States are scoping out the new president, trying to anticipate his opening moves, and then positioning themselves for advantage. 
 Take Iran, where President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad suddenly is discussing opening talks based on ''mutual respect'' with the new administration. ''This could be real,'' one of Mr. Obama's top diplomats said last week, ''or it could be the beginning of a fabulous new delaying tactic.'' 
 Here's a look at some of the opening moves, and how they may play out: 
 THE EUROPEANS: JOY MEETS AFGHANISTAN
 Those giant crowds that greeted Mr. Obama last summer on the Continent left no doubt: If Europeans had a vote in the election (and many thought they were owed one), the outcome was predetermined. But try that in a few months, after they have had a taste of what Vice President Joe Biden calls the ''more for more'' policy. 
 Now that they have been softened up by declarations about closing Guantanamo and new initiatives on global warming, European governments and other allies have begun receiving requests for their assessment of what is needed in Afghanistan. ''It's clever and of course it's what we've asked for: Input about a policy before it's settled and we read about it in your newspaper,'' one ambassador whose country has more than a thousand troops in Afghanistan said last week in Washington. ''But you can see a few muscles tensing because everyone knows what's coming next.'' 
 What's coming is Mr. Obama's insistence that the countries that have developed the strategy now contribute the additional troops and resources it requires. That is what George Bush never got: The ''coalition of the willing'' quickly exited Iraq, and public pressure now is building across Europe to do the same in Afghanistan. Many NATO nations have stipulated that their troops cannot go into the Afghan areas where they are needed most, the areas under regular attack by the Taliban. This will be the main subject of Mr. Obama's first major overseas trip, to a NATO conference in April. 
 But the problem goes beyond mere troop numbers. The United States is shifting strategy to deal with Afghanistan and Pakistan as a single problem -- an approach rooted in the belief that without terminating the sanctuary that the Taliban and Al Qaeda have in Pakistan, the war in Afghanistan will never end. Mr. Blair told the Senate Intelligence Committee Thursday that Pakistan's government ''is losing authority in parts of the North-West Frontier Province,'' where insurgents run free -- and ''mounting economic hardships and frustration over poor governance have given rise to greater radicalization'' elsewhere.
 The Europeans have not bought into the new strategy. In part that is because they regard Pakistan as a job for the C.I.A. and the Special Forces, who got a not-so-secret authorization from President Bush last summer to begin crossborder ground actions to wipe out a wide range of insurgents. That operation is so dangerous and politically loaded -- it touches on the sovereignty of a nuclear-armed nation that is becoming ever more radicalized -- that no American ally wants to be anywhere near it. They agree Pakistan is a critical obstacle to winning the war, but they see it as Mr. Obama's problem, not theirs.
 IRAN: NEGOTIATE, UNDERMINE, OR BOTH?
 During the campaign, Mr. Obama's discussion of Iran became shorthand for his declaration of a new era of diplomacy, one that stresses engagement rather than (or at least before) confrontation. The process has started: Mr. Obama made clear in his news conference Monday that he was ready to start talking, and Mr. Ahmadinejad quickly responded, perhaps seeking to moderate his tone now that he is being challenged by the more diplomatic former President Mohammed Khatami. 
 But both sides know agreeing to talk is simple; conducting negotiations between two countries that haven't spoken for 30 years is painful. And Mr. Obama has some hard decisions ahead. 
 During the campaign, he declared the world could never tolerate Iran's possession of nuclear weapons or ability to build them on short notice. Does that mean he will demand, as the Bush administration did unsuccessfully, that every centrifuge shut down? The best estimates are that Iran already has roughly 5,000 spinning, nearly enough to make fuel for two weapons a year -- if it is further enriched, to weapons grade. 
 So maybe the best Mr. Obama can hope for is to freeze the enrichment process short of weapons-grade fuel, and trust that inspectors will spot any cheating. In that case, does Mr. Obama also demand access to the 10 to 15 sites that American intelligence agencies believe might be secret locations for enrichment or weapons design?
 And then there is the biggest decision of all: The United States has a major covert program under way to undermine the main enrichment plant at Natanz. Does that strengthen the hand he is extending, or does it make diplomacy more difficult? 
 A senior American intelligence official, who worked for President Bush, said last week that Mr. Obama could not abandon the covert program, because it is his only insurance policy -- if perhaps not a very reliable one -- if ''engagement'' fails. 
 George Perkovich, a nuclear expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, described the conundrum this way: ''It's not only the Israelis who get nervous at the idea that the Obama administration might let negotiations drag on too long. There are leaders of the Gulf States who are so nervous about Iran that they would be perfectly happy if someone bombed them'' and knocked out the facilities. That is what Israel wanted to do last year; President Bush stood in their way.
 CHINESE LOANS AND ECONOMIC INSTABILITY
 Next weekend, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton goes to Asia, a region to which she said the Bush administration ''didn't pay the appropriate amount of attention.'' She has set a broad new agenda with China in particular, hoping to reach understandings on energy and the environment. 
 But what really changes the dynamic with China isn't Mr. Obama's goals or personal qualities, as much as the stimulus plan that Congress just passed for him to sign. It's the Chinese whom the Treasury is counting on to lend the United States much of that $787 billion. For Mr. Obama, the good news is that such borrowing invests China in America's recovery; the bad news is that China is under domestic pressure to spend more of its export earnings at home. In other words, a need to borrow China's real capital could cost Mr. Obama in political capital as he and China's leaders haggle over North Korea or climate change. 
 That is only one of the ways the global economic crisis is changing the power map of the world. Mr. Blair reminded the Senate last week that the Depression and the war that followed were linked. While he did not predict the rise of another Hitler, he warned darkly that ''all of us recall the dramatic political consequences wrought by the economic turmoil of the 1920s and 1930s, the instability and high levels of violent extremism.''
 A pessimist might call that the Meltdown Factor, and wonder if the Obama Factor is its equal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (pg.WK1)
ASIAN TREMORS: China's cooperation to limit North Korea's nuclear ambitions, on display in a Pyongyang stadium, is one item for President Obama to bargain for with America's biggest creditor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GUTTENFELDER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 RESISTANCE: Pakistani Islamists protest raids. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REHAN KHAN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); GLOBALIZATION (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (58%); DENNIS BLAIR (53%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (74%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



636 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: They Sure Showed That Obama

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
AM I crazy, or wasn't the Obama presidency pronounced dead just days ago? Obama had ''all but lost control of the agenda in Washington,'' declared Newsweek on Feb. 4 as it wondered whether he might even get a stimulus package through Congress. ''Obama Losing Stimulus Message War'' was the headline at Politico a day later. At the mostly liberal MSNBC, the morning host, Joe Scarborough, started preparing the final rites. Obama couldn't possibly eke out a victory because the stimulus package was ''a steaming pile of garbage.''
 Less than a month into Obama's term, we don't (and can't) know how he'll fare as president. The compromised stimulus package, while hardly garbage, may well be inadequate. Timothy Geithner's uninspiring and opaque stab at a bank rescue is at best a place holder and at worst a rearrangement of the deck chairs on the TARP-Titanic, where he served as Hank Paulson's first mate. 
 But we do know this much. Just as in the presidential campaign, Obama has once again outwitted the punditocracy and the opposition. The same crowd that said he was a wimpy hope-monger who could never beat Hillary or get white votes was played for fools again. 
 On Wednesday, as a stimulus deal became a certainty on Capitol Hill, I asked David Axelrod for his take on this Groundhog Day relationship between Obama and the political culture. 
 ''It's why our campaign was not based in Washington but in Chicago,'' he said. ''We were somewhat insulated from the echo chamber. In the summer of '07, the conventional wisdom was that Obama was a shooting star; his campaign was irretrievably lost; it was a ludicrous strategy to focus on Iowa; and we were falling further and further behind in the national polls.'' But even after the Iowa victory, this same syndrome kept repeating itself. When Obama came out against the gas-tax holiday supported by both McCain and Clinton last spring, Axelrod recalled, ''everyone in D.C. thought we were committing suicide.'' 
 The stimulus battle was more of the same. ''This town talks to itself and whips itself into a frenzy with its own theories that are completely at odds with what the rest of America is thinking,'' he says. Once the frenzy got going, it didn't matter that most polls showed support for Obama and his economic package: ''If you watched cable TV, you'd see our support was plummeting, we were in trouble. It was almost like living in a parallel universe.'' 
 For Axelrod, the moral is ''not just that Washington is too insular but that the American people are a lot smarter than people in Washington think.''
 Here's a third moral: Overdosing on this culture can be fatal. Because Republicans are isolated in that parallel universe and believe all the noise in its echo chamber, they are now as out of touch with reality as the ''inevitable'' Clinton campaign was before it got clobbered in Iowa. The G.O.P. doesn't recognize that it emerged from the stimulus battle even worse off than when it started. That obliviousness gives the president the opening to win more ambitious policy victories than last week's. Having checked the box on attempted bipartisanship, Obama can now move in for the kill.
 A useful template for the current political dynamic can be found in one of the McCain campaign's more memorable pratfalls. Last fall, it was the Beltway mantra that Obama was doomed with all those working-class Rust Belt Democrats who'd flocked to Hillary in the primaries. The beefy, beer-drinking, deer-hunting white guys -- incessantly interviewed in bars and diners -- would never buy the skinny black intellectual. Nor would the ''dead-ender'' Hillary women. The McCain camp not only bought into this received wisdom, but bet the bank on it, pouring resources into states like Michigan and Wisconsin before abandoningthem and doubling down on Pennsylvania in the stretch. The sucker-punched McCain lost allthreestates by percentages in the double digits.
 The stimulus opponents, egged on by all the media murmurings about Obama ''losing control,'' also thought they had a sure thing. Their TV advantage added to their complacency. As the liberal blog ThinkProgress reported, G.O.P. members of Congress wildly outnumbered Democrats as guests on all cable news networks, not just Fox News, in the three days of intense debate about the House stimulus bill. They started pounding in their slogans relentlessly. The bill was not a stimulus package but an orgy of pork spending. The ensuing deficit would amount to ''generational theft.'' F.D.R.'s New Deal had been an abject failure.
 This barrage did shave a few points off the stimulus's popularity in polls, but its approval rating still remained above 50 percent in all (Gallup, CNN, Pew, CBS) but one of them (Rasmussen, the sole poll the G.O.P. cites). Perhaps the stimulus held its own because the public, in defiance of Washington's condescending assumption, was smart enough to figure out that the government can't create jobs without spending and that Bush-era Republicans have no moral authority to lecture about deficits. Some Americans may even have ancestors saved from penury by the New Deal.
 In any event, the final score was unambiguous. The stimulus package arrived with the price tag and on roughly the schedule Obama had set for it. The president's job approval percentage now ranges from the mid 60s (Gallup, Pew) to mid 70s (CNN) -- not bad for a guy who won the presidency with 52.9 percent of the vote. While 48 percent of Americans told CBS, Gallup and Pew that they approve of Congressional Democrats, only 31 (Gallup), 32 (CBS) and 34 (Pew) percent could say the same of their G.O.P. counterparts.
 At least some media hands are chagrined. After the stimulus prevailed, Scarborough speculated on MSNBC that ''perhaps we've overanalyzed it, we don't know what we're talking about.'' But the Republicans are busy high-fiving themselves and celebrating ''victory.'' Even in defeat, they are still echoing the 24/7 cable mantra about the stimulus's unpopularity. This self-congratulatory mood is summed up by a Wall Street Journal columnist who wrote that ''the House Republicans' zero votes for the Obama presidency's stimulus 'package' is looking like the luckiest thing to happen to the G.O.P.'s political fortunes since Ronald Reagan switched parties.'' There hasn't been this much delusional giddiness in these ranks since Monica Lewinsky promised a surefire Republican sweep in the 1998 midterms.
 Not all Republicans are so clueless, whether in Congress or beyond. Charlie Crist, the moderate Florida governor who appeared with the president in his Fort Myers, Fla., town-hall meeting last week, has Obama-like approval ratings in the 70s. Naturally, the party's hard-liners in Washington loathe him. Their idea of a good public face for the G.O.P. is a sound-bite dispenser like the new chairman, Michael Steele, a former Maryland lieutenant governor. Steele's argument against the stimulus package is that ''in the history of mankind'' no ''federal, state or local'' government has ever ''created one job.'' As it happens, among the millions of jobs created by the government are the federal investigators now pursuing Steele for alleged financial improprieties in his failed 2006 Senate campaign.
 This G.O.P., a largely white Southern male party with talking points instead of ideas and talking heads instead of leaders, is not unlike those ''zombie banks'' that we're being asked to bail out. It is in too much denial to acknowledge its own insolvency and toxic assets. Given the mess the country is in, it would be helpful to have an adult opposition that could pull its weight, but that's not the hand America has been dealt.
 As Judd Gregg flakes out and Lindsey Graham throws made-for-YouTube hissy fits on the Senate floor, Obama should stay focused on the big picture in governing as he did in campaigning. That's the steady course he upheld when much of the political establishment was either second-guessing or ridiculing it, and there's no reason to change it now. The stimulus victory showed that even as president Obama can ambush Washington's conventional wisdom as if he were still an insurgent.
 But, as he said in Fort Myers last week, he will ultimately be judged by his results. If the economy isn't turned around, he told the crowd, then ''you'll have a new president.'' The stimulus bill is only a first step on that arduous path. The biggest mistake he can make now is to be too timid. This country wants a New Deal, including on energy and health care, not a New Deal lite. Far from depleting Obama's clout, the stimulus battle instead reaffirmed that he has the political capital to pursue the agenda of change he campaigned on.
 Republicans will also be judged by the voters. If they want to obstruct and filibuster while the economy is in free fall, the president should call their bluff and let them go at it. In the first four years after F.D.R. took over from Hoover, the already decimated ranks of Republicans in Congress fell from 36 to 16 in the Senate and from 117 to 88 in the House. The G.O.P. is so insistent that the New Deal was a mirage it may well have convinced itself that its own sorry record back then didn't happen either. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); SUICIDE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



637 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: Is America Ready to Quit Coal?

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
Last May, protesters took over James E. Rogers's front lawn in Charlotte, N.C., unfurling banners declaring ''No new coal'' and erecting a makeshift ''green power plant'' -- which, they said in a press release, was fueled by ''the previously unexplored energy source known as hot air, which has been found in large concentrations'' at his home.
 And so it goes for Mr. Rogers, the chief executive of Duke Energy. For three years, environmentalists have been battling to stop his company from building a large coal-fired power plant in southwestern North Carolina. They say it will spew six million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually, in addition to producing toxic gases and mountains of fly ash similar to the muck that engulfed a Tennessee community recently.
 All Mr. Rogers asks, he said in jest, is that protesters let him know when they want to camp out on his lawn. ''Maybe next time we can have a little notice and ask them to join us for coffee or tea,'' he says. 
 Mr. Rogers and his colleagues may be forgiven for feeling a little under siege these days. The coal industry, which powered the industrial revolution and supplied America with much of its electricity for more than 60 years, is in a fight for its survival. 
 With concerns over climate change intensifying, electricity generation from coal, once reliably cheap, looks increasingly expensive in the face of the all-but-certain prospect of regulations that would impose significant costs on companies that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. 
 As a result, utilities' plans for new coal plants are being turned down left and right. In the last two-and-a-half years, plans for 83 plants in the United States have either been voluntarily withdrawn or denied permits by state regulators. The roughly 600 coal-fired power plants in the United States are responsible for almost one-third of the country's total carbon emissions, but they are distinctly at odds with a growing outlook that embraces clean energy.
 A new campaign against coal by Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a prominent environmentalist, and the Waterkeeper Alliance is called ''The Dirty Lie.'' Other clean-energy advocates are equally passionate. 
 ''If you care about being a leader on solving global warming problems, you don't build new coal plants, especially ones that don't have a way to capture carbon,'' said Stephen A. Smith, executive director of the Southeastern Alliance for Clean Energy. (Mr. Smith's group was not involved in the decorating of the Duke executive's lawn. That was the handiwork of a small group called Rising Tide, in Asheville.)
 This green chorus also includes Al Gore, the former vice president, Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, who has called for a moratorium on new coal plants. 
 Mr. Reid and other Democratic leaders in Congress, emboldened by support from the Obama administration, have promised climate change legislation by the end of the year. While the exact outlines are yet to be determined, lawmakers are discussing plans to force companies to reduce carbon emissions or be required to pay some form of penalty.
 Some conservatives in Congress, and the coal industry itself, say the clean energy push is an affordable luxury -- and a pet cause -- for people in states that don't have to rely primarily on coal to produce electricity. 
 ''The costs for those customers in the heartland who get more of their electricity from coal, not only residential but commercial customers, could be significantly higher, at a time when we can least afford it,'' says Jim Owen, spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, which represents electric utilities. ''So we want to make sure that a climate change program is properly designed.''
 Moreover, getting more and more of our energy from squeaky-clean sources like wind, solar and biomass sounds like a great idea, but whether renewables can keep the lights on and our iPods charged remains an open question.
 THE coal industry is aware of all of these issues and is fighting back. An industry-financed group called the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity spent $38 million last year informing Americans, via TV and newspaper ads, that coal is the source of 50 percent of their electricity, that it is an abundant domestic resource and, most importantly, that there is the promise of ''clean,'' or carbon-free, coal. This argument is what Mr. Kennedy's group calls ''the dirty lie.'' 
 Nevertheless, the industry sees clean coal technologies as its best hope for joining the ranks of green power. The problem is that the technology, called carbon capture and storage, is still being developed and could make electricity generated by coal more expensive than power from other sources.
 ''There are 16 gigawatts of new coal-fired generation coming online in the next few years,'' said Kevin Book, an energy policy analyst at FBR Capital Markets. ''They may well be the last plants.''
 Mr. Rogers, 61, may adhere to the pro-coal sentiments of many of his peers, but he is hardly a typical captain of the energy industry. Five years ago, he began advocating for climate change legislation at a time when some companies were still saying human activity had nothing to do with global warming. Mr. Rogers, a native of Birmingham, Ala., considers himself an environmentalist and calls his decision to move forward with the new plant, made shortly after he became chief of Duke in April 2006, a difficult one.
 The estimated 240 million tons of carbon dioxide that will be generated over the 40-year life of the plant, known as Cliffside, will probably never be captured, when or if such technology becomes viable. Most proposals to capture gas involve injecting it deep into the earth. But in North and South Carolina, where Duke operates, the underground rock is too porous to contain any gas. 
 ''There's always been a tension between affordability and clean,'' Mr. Rogers said in mid-January, sipping a cappuccino on his way to a meeting in Washington with Carol M. Browner, the White House coordinator of energy and climate policy. ''Ultimately we need to be able to meet the energy needs of our customers. That's my biggest obligation.''
 Fulfilling that responsibility through renewable energy wasn't an option, he said. Duke, which gets 71 percent of its electricity from coal, has only recently delved into solar energy, promising to buy the entire output of a large solar farm in North Carolina and it is seeking final approval to put solar panels on rooftops at hundreds of customer sites. Its first purchase from a wind farm has started flowing to customers in Indiana. All that combined, though, will give Duke only 124 megawatts of energy, compared with 800 planned from Cliffside.
 Hoping to mitigate some of the environmental impact of Cliffside, Mr. Rogers has promised to shut down more than an equal amount of older, more polluting power plants by 2018.
 Environmentalists are not impressed. They say that Mr. Rogers hasn't pushed for clean energy with the same vigor he has expended on Cliffside; for instance, he personally lobbied North Carolina utility regulators for Cliffside but not for the solar program. ''Among the utility guys he's the most dangerous because he talks a good game, but his actions are among the worst,'' said Bruce E. Nilles, who oversees anti-coal initiatives for the Sierra Club. 
 Not so, says Mr. Rogers. He says that he's just a pragmatist, not a hypocrite, and that he has given his full support to Duke's solar program.
 Even if they want to, it's going to be hard for utilities to wean themselves off huge coal plants, which are much simpler to plan and build than a collage of smaller alternative energy projects that cannot be counted on for continuous power. 
 ''Utilities like to plan their world around big traditional power plants,'' said Mr. Smith of the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy. ''Only when they are forced are they willing to rethink that business model.''
 Mr. Rogers, after all, was hoping to build two plants at the Cliffside site, but the state awarded only one permit. 
 Other utilities, though, have sworn off coal for the time being and are eagerly embracing alternative energy. Xcel Energy, for example, has erected 274 cloud-colored turbines on the gusty plains of northeastern Colorado. It gets about half of its electricity from coal, but it also draws more of its power from wind, almost 3,000 megawatts, than any other utility.
 ''It's not always easy, but we're wanting to provide our customers with cleaner and cleaner energy,'' said Frank P. Prager, vice president for environmental policy at Xcel. 
 Others have even broader ambitions. Dan W. Reicher, Google's director for climate change and energy initiatives, is confident it's possible to wean ourselves off coal. Last year he devised a plan, called Clean Energy 2030, that calls for America to go almost fossil fuel-free by 2030. 
 His proposal entails keeping electricity demand flat by aggressively pursuing energy efficiency, thus bypassing the need for new coal plants to meet growing demand. All existing coal generation and about half of our current natural gas production would be replaced with a medley of clean electricity propelled by wind, solar, nuclear and other sources. 
 Michael G. Morris, chief executive of American Electric Power in Columbus, Ohio, also one of the largest utilities in the country, dismisses Google's plan, particularly the idea of eliminating coal-fired electricity by 2030. ''Absolutely impossible,'' he scoffs. ''If you can make the wind blow 24/7 that would be good. Maybe Google's got a plan for that.'' 
 Environmentalists counter that there are innovative ways to deal with the fact that wind and solar farms don't generate nonstop electricity, namely pairing them with natural gas plants, and using emerging energy storage technologies. 
 Even with creative approaches, clean energy still presents huge challenges. Lots of new wind and solar farms are going to require huge amounts of new transmission lines that will carry that power from remote places to more populated areas, an endeavor that a consortium of grid operators projects will cost as much as $100 billion. Solutions like advanced geothermal, a promising way to get clean, always-on energy, are still in the development stage and will require huge investments.
 For their part, nearly all utility companies yearn for the day when coal isn't a dirty word and when plants can capture and store their carbon dioxide. No one is a bigger cheerleader for this idea than Mr. Morris of American Electric.
 This fall, the 150-foot smokestack at the company's Mountaineer coal plant in New Haven, W.Va., will be outfitted with technology that uses chilled ammonia to trap carbon dioxide. The greenhouse gas will then be turned into a liquid and injected into the ground. It will be the first such project that will both capture and store carbon from an existing plant, and Mr. Morris is wildly optimistic. ''At the end of the day we will develop this technology,'' he says.
 BUT Mr. Morris's plans, as ambitious as they are, say a lot about just how far away ''clean coal'' is. Of the 8.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emitted annually by the Mountaineer plant, only 100,000 to 300,000 will be removed with the new technology. And American Electric and the maker of the technology, Alstrom, are spending $100 million on the initiative -- a daunting expense for some producers. 
 Then there is the cost of doing the carbon removal, which Mr. Book, of FBR Capital Markets, estimates would more than double the price of electricity generated from coal, possibly making it too expensive relative to other sources. ''The economic case isn't there for private companies to do it,'' he says. ''The government is going to have to fund it.'' 
 Until then, coal's image problem is likely to persist. ''Coal is the dirtiest possible fuel,'' said Patrice Simms, senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''We need to move away from our 19th-century fuel source.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the future of coal-fired power plants misidentified a company that has developed a technology to capture carbon dioxide. It is Alstom, not Alstrom.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Rogers, chief of Duke Energy, says he tries to balance electricity needs and green power.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NANINE HARTZENBUSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Duke Energy, which gets 71 percent of its electricity from coal and is delving into wind and solar projects, is building a big coal-fired plant in North Carolina.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NANINE HARTZENBUSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU7) CHARTS: Producer and Polluter: Source: Energy Information Administration Coal fuels half of all electricity generated, but contributes more than two-thirds of all carbon dioxide emissions from the electric power sector. Proposals to expand coal plant capacity may be curtailed.(Source: Energy Information Administration) Chart details information for CAPACITY and EMISSIONS. (pg. BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (91%); AL GORE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



638 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1927 words

HEADLINE: Economists' Forecast: Chance of Change 100%

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
The numbers are enough to make any New Yorker wince.
An unemployment rate of 7.4 percent in December, compared with 5.1 percent two years ago. A projected hemorrhaging of 294,000 jobs -- 46,000 from Wall Street alone -- by the summer of 2010.
A 41 percent drop in condominium sales from 2006 to 2008, and a 58 percent plunge for multifamily homes.
A city budget deficit of $4 billion this year, and as much as $7 billion the next.
And a mayor who is demanding that city employees pay 10 percent of their health care costs -- or else risk losing their jobs. 
With each passing hour, it seems, the avalanche of bad economic news, forecasts and anecdotes continues. And New Yorkers are struggling to comprehend just how bad it is, and how bad it may get, whether they lived through the fiscal crisis of the 1970s, or whether their only experience with an economic downturn was when share prices for Google began to slip.
To better understand the dimensions of the crisis, The New York Times talked to five people who have made the economics of New York their specialty, and asked them what to look for, what to expect, what to fear most, what not to overlook and what not to overreact to.
After all, a lot is at stake for a lot of people: whether they should move out of the city, whether they can afford to keep their small businesses, whether the city itself can afford to continue providing services and whether more city employees will find themselves looking for work, too.
As might be expected, there was hardly unanimity. But one thing that everyone agreed on is that whenever the financial swoon ends, the city -- and its economy -- will probably look very different.
John Tepper Marlin
Former Chief Economist
City Comptroller's Office
Some people have compared this recession to the Great Depression. Mr. Marlin's view? It could turn out to be worse.
He is troubled that this time, the crisis is more global in nature, given the interconnectedness of the world economy. That means it affects more people, and it also means there are more people to blame: the aggressive peddlers of subprime mortgages in California; the proponents of deregulation, led by two powerful former members of Congress from Texas, Dick Armey and Phil Gramm; and the people he sardonically calls the ''geniuses'' on Wall Street.
''We've had the verdict -- Wall Street is guilty -- but what's playing out here is the sentencing, and it's not just Wall Street that's being sentenced; it's the rest of the world,'' Mr. Marlin said.
There are other reasons to worry, he said. For instance, while many see the financial crisis of the 1970s as among New York's bleakest days, he believes this current crisis could be more painful. Back then, the state's fiscal health was solid, and the state was ultimately able to help the city. But this time, ''if anything, the state is definitely in much worse shape,'' because of its own deficit of approximately $14 billion, and the prospect of mounting costs in the future for pension, health care and debt service expenses.
Mr. Marlin expects that there will be more defaults on buildings as condominium and co-op owners fail to pay their common charges, and also more sales of foreclosed properties. Rents will continue to dip. There will be longer lines at the grocery store, because fewer people will eat out. And he worries about unrest, citing hard-hit Iceland as a recent example.
''I'm concerned about people being so desperate that they lose the fear of losing their own lives and they become so desperate that they're willing to endanger other people's lives,'' he said.
Nicole Gelinas
Senior Fellow
The Manhattan Institute
You could say that there are wrong-way signs everywhere, according to Ms. Gelinas.
Personal income taxes in the city are expected to decrease 35 percent between 2007 and 2009: a drop unprecedented in recent memory. The number of tourists fell for the last two quarters, by roughly 5 percent, compared with the previous year. And, anecdotally, she has noticed deep discounts at retailers all over the city, well beyond the traditional post-holiday discount season, as well as unusual real estate deals in which landlords are offering prospective tenants free rent for a month or other enticements.
If these trends continue, she says, property owners will probably ask for property tax appeals and reassessments. And should those appeals succeed, the city's property tax collections would drop accordingly.
As a result, the city needs to tighten its belt in the right places -- for instance, tackling the rising costs of pensions and health benefits for city employees -- without hurting critical services like mass transit and police.
In addition, Ms. Gelinas says that the city cannot expect to rely on Wall Street bouncing back, given Washington's move to curtail bonuses and impose tougher oversight. So what is needed, she says, is a long-term change in mentality. And she says that it is incumbent upon the city and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whom she has criticized in the past as lacking fiscal discipline, to persuade everyone -- residents, city workers and businesses -- that they must seriously scale back on their lifestyles and their expectations.
''If we don't act now to recognize that this is a deep change, a year and a half from now people could see visible differences in the quality of their lives,'' Ms. Gelinas said. ''Eighteen months from now, people could see fewer police officers, less trash pickups, less visible school programs in the outer boroughs -- things that really make a difference for some people, as they decide whether to stay or go, or buy or sell a house.''
Charles Brecher
Director of Research
Citizens Budget Commission
Mr. Brecher does not want to hazard a guess as to whether the city is likely to face a financial meltdown, whether the economy will get worse but stop short of collapsing or whether the city will bounce back much more quickly than expected.
But he does suggest that the city has learned its lessons from the 1970s and 1980s, and is unlikely to see a repeat of anything so dire.
After all, during that period, there was a steady decline in jobs, especially as back-office functions moved out of the city and into the suburbs. And in the 1970s, he said, political leaders seemed ill equipped to deal with a fiscal crisis, and let city services deteriorate. ''You got into this spiral where New York became a less desirable place,'' he recalled.
These days, he says, the city is in much better shape, thanks to the financial controls put in place in response to the 1970s crisis, as well as Mr. Bloomberg's decision to raise property taxes in 2003, and the practice of socking away hundreds of millions of dollars each year for a rainy-day fund.
Several key economic indicators will help to determine the recession's severity in New York, Mr. Brecher said.
In November, employment in the city posted the first year-over-year decline since March 2004. He is watching to see whether many of the high-paying financial jobs that vanished in recent months will be replaced by lower-paying ones.
He also wants to monitor how steeply office rents fall, from a record of roughly $84 a square foot in 2008.
Even so, Mr. Brecher is unwilling to make predictions.
''I'm very reluctant to trust my gut on this, because after 2001 everyone thought we were in a long-term bad time, but it was almost miraculous the way the city economy bounced back from that,'' he said.
Ronnie Lowenstein
Director
Independent Budget Office
Sure, the federal stimulus package agreed to by Congress last week promises to help New York City and the region tremendously, right away. But in the long run, the Treasury Department's bank bailout plan is bound to have a much greater impact because of the outsize importance of the financial industry in the city, according to Ms. Lowenstein.
''If you have a more highly regulated financial industry, and less highly leveraged -- taking less risk, using less borrowed money to take risk -- you're unlikely to see the same big run-ups in profits that we've enjoyed in recent years,'' she says. ''And that has big implications for the city's economy and the city's budget and tax revenues.''
Bear in mind, she says, that from 2003 to 2007, the securities industry accounted for 59 percent of the growth in wages and salaries in the city, according to the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, even though it makes up only 6 percent of all private-sector employment. So the questions that will help determine the future, she said, include: How successful have the bankers and traders who lost their jobs been in finding new work? And if they remain out of work for a long period, how long will their severance checks continue to pump money into the economy?
She is looking carefully at daily data on personal income taxes, which is collected by the state. Withholding collections reflect fluctuations in employment relatively quickly, because employers generally must make payment for the taxes withheld from their employees' paychecks on a monthly basis, if not more frequently.
But a caveat is warranted here: After workers in finance lose their jobs, they usually receive severance pay for four to six months, so even that data can lag.
One activity Ms. Lowenstein urges New Yorkers to resist, though, is obsessing about the stock market.
''It's important not to see it as an indicator of the real economy,'' she said. ''It's just not.''
Carol O'Cleireacain
Finance Commissioner
In Dinkins Administration
Forget about comparing the current recession to the Depression. In fact, do not even compare it to the recession of 1982, Ms. O'Cleireacain advises.
In the 1980s, she says, things were worse all over the country because of the twin drags of high inflation and high unemployment -- the factors that make up the so-called misery index. In contrast to a misery index of 16 to 21 percent from 1979 to 1982, the figure now is 7.3 percent, since the inflation rate is almost zero.
What is different this time is the ubiquity, and speed, of information, sometimes triggering intense, immediate reaction and irrational behavior by amateur investors, and worsening the worry among employees concerned about their jobs.
''We're not even in 1982, but people are reacting to this real fear because it happened so fast, and it took them by surprise,'' she said.
She also points to a contrast with the Depression era, when banks had a monopoly on lending and credit. Today, there are all kinds of other institutions -- hedge funds, mortgage agencies, insurance companies -- with pools of capital. And because of that diversity, she concurs with many economists who believe that the economy may start to grow again in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Before then, she will be scrutinizing whether the city is meeting its cash needs, and whether its cash flow is good. She also will want to know whether the city has been able to borrow as much as it has wanted, or whether it is borrowing in smaller amounts, and to what extent it is paying a premium.
But she has faith.
''New York City isn't like Elkhart, Ind.,'' Ms. O'Cleireacain said, referring to a city that President Obama visited last week, one that largely depends on a single industry, recreational-vehicle manufacturing, and where unemployment has soared to 15 percent. New York, she said, ''is a magnet for talent: for smart, enterprising, ambitious, innovative people, not only from this country but from around the world. Everyone wants to be here, and I think that sets us apart from virtually any other city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNEVEN RECOVERY: In 1992 in Bushwick, Brooklyn, 15 years after a blackout that gave rise to looting across the city, there was no sign of rebirth at devastated storefronts along Broadway.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD KEATING/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HARD TIMES: Squatters in a camp on the East Side of Manhattan during the Depression. Economists differ on how the current downturn compares with that bleak period.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMES WIDE WORLD, 1933)(A17)
John Tepper Marlin says the global nature of the recession is of particular concern.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Carol O'Cleireacain says the recession's relatively sudden onset heightened public fears.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) CHARTS: Sizing Up the City's Economy: Unlike other recessions, the city's current economic situation combines a skyrocketing unemployment rate and the highest deficit in almost three decades.
PEAKS IN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
ADJUSTED DEBT SERVICE: Year-to-year change
PERSONAL INCOME TAXES: Year-to-year change(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Independent Budget Office)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SENTENCING (63%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



639 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 644 words

PERSON: Jack Cover 

HEADLINE: Jack Cover, 88, Physicist Who Invented the Taser Stun Gun

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Jack Cover, the physicist who invented the Taser stun gun, the police weapon that subdues its targets with jolts of electricity, died Feb. 7 in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 88 and lived in San Clemente, Calif.
The cause was pneumonia brought on by Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Ginny.
Mr. Cover (pronounced KOH-ver), who worked as an aerospace scientist and was affiliated with NASA's Apollo moon landing program, came up with the idea for a nonlethal weapon for use in law enforcement in the 1960s as a response to emergencies in the news, including airplane hijackings. 
The scientific inspiration, Ms. Cover said, was a newspaper article about a man who had inadvertently walked into an electrified fence and survived, though he was temporarily immobilized.
''When he read that had happened, he knew an electric current could be used without danger,'' Ms. Cover said.
Mr. Cover named his invention as a tribute to another inspiration, the Tom Swift science fiction novels he read as a child, one of which was ''Tom Swift and His Electric Rifle.'' He created an acronym from ''Thomas Swift Electric Rifle,'' adding the ''A,'' he explained to The Washington Post in 1976, ''because we got tired of answering the phone 'T.S.E.R.' ''
The Taser gun shoots electrified darts connected to the gun by insulated wires, and it works by flooding the target's body with current, causing uncontrollable muscle contractions.
Small amounts of current are not inherently dangerous, but the safety threshold is not absolute, especially involving people whose heart circuitry has been made vulnerable by drug use or overexertion, common factors among resisting offenders.
Law enforcement agencies generally support the Taser as a worthy tool that protects officers from violent offenders and protects the suspects as well. According to Taser International, founded in 1993, which markets products based on Mr. Cover's original invention, more than 13,400 law enforcement agencies around the world now use Tasers. More than 375,000 individual officers have them, and so do more than 181,000 private citizens.
From 1976 to 1995, Tasers were considered firearms because the darts were propelled by gunpowder. Approached in 1993 by Taser International, Mr. Cover modified the weapon so that it was powered by compressed nitrogen, allowing Tasers to be freely sold to the public.
The proliferation of Tasers has made them controversial, as their frequent use has led to fears of their overuse. According to Amnesty International, which seeks to have the use of Tasers by private citizens prohibited and use by the police curtailed pending further study, at least 334 people have died since 2001 after being shot with Tasers by police officers.
In a statement sent by e-mail on Friday, a spokesman for Taser International, Steve Tuttle, said, ''We stand by the safety of our devices.''
John Higson Cover Jr., known as Jack, was born in New York City on April 6, 1920, and grew up mostly in Chicago, where his father was a professor of economics and his mother earned a master's degree in mathematics at the University of Chicago. Mr. Cover later earned a B.S. and a Ph.D. in physics there.
He was a scientist at North American Aviation (which later became Rockwell International), a National Aeronautics and Space Administration contractor, and he led the company's team of researchers working on the Apollo project.
Mr. Cover's first two marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Steven, of Newport, Wash.; three daughters, Dede Rhodes, also of Newport, Melissa Beckley of Brush Prairie, Wash., and Cathy Cover of Tucson; two stepchildren, Shawn Kerr of San Clemente and Aron Fisher of Menifee, Calif.; 10 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
On the issue of Taser safety, Mr. Cover was unwavering.
''He used to say he saved 100,000 lives,'' his wife said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Cover with a model of his invention in September 1975. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); FIREARMS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); HIJACKING (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (57%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (52%)

COMPANY: TASER INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: TASR (NASDAQ) (84%); WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EARTH'S MOON (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



640 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 775 words

PERSON: Alfred A. Knopf Jr. 

HEADLINE: Alfred A. Knopf Jr., Influential Publisher, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:
Alfred A. Knopf Jr., who left the noted publishing house run by his parents to become one of the founders of Atheneum Publishers in 1959, died on Saturday. He was 90, the last of the surviving founders, and lived in New York City.
The cause of death was complications following a fall, his wife, Alice, said. 
The only child of the publishing giants Alfred A. and Blanche Wolf Knopf, Pat Knopf, as he was called, worked at his parents' company, concentrating mainly on sales and marketing, when he approached his father about hiring the editor Simon Michael Bessie as the Knopfs' eventual successor. Mr. Bessie had recently been passed over for the position of editor in chief at Harper & Row in favor of Evan Thomas.
When his father refused, blaming his mother's resistance (she apparently didn't like Mr. Bessie), Mr. Knopf said in an interview in 2005, Mr. Knopf (pronounced with a hard ''k'') decided to join Mr. Bessie and Hiram Haydn, an editor at Bobbs-Merrill, in founding Atheneum. They lined up four backers, each willing to put up $250,000, and established their offices in a four-story brownstone on East 38th Street. Cornelia Schaeffer, who would later become Mr. Bessie's wife, joined the house as an editor about a year after its founding.
Atheneum got lucky fast. Its first three lists produced three No. 1 best sellers: ''The Last of the Just'' (1960), a novel about the Holocaust by Andre Schwarz-Bart; ''The Making of the President, 1960'' (1961), the first in Theodore H. White's series on presidential campaigns; and ''The Rothschilds: A Family Portrait'' (1962) by Frederic Morton. These books were acquired by Mr. Bessie, although by informal understanding each of the founders had to agree on every book the house published.
Other projects, if not best sellers, also did well for the house. The first list included Jan de Hartog's crime novel ''The Inspector,'' Wright Morris's ''Ceremony in Lone Tree'' and William Goldman's ''Soldier in the Rain.'' Atheneum later published Edward Albee's play ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf'' (1962), which sold more than 70,000 copies in hard- and softcover editions. On the other hand, having published Mario Puzo's second novel, ''The Fortunate Pilgrim'' (1965), the house turned down ''The Godfather'' (published by G. P. Putnam's Sons in 1969). Mr. Haydn thought it ''junk,'' Mr. Knopf said.
Although the founders called on their backers for what Mr. Knopf said was almost a second million, in part to start up a children's book division in 1964, Atheneum prospered, and the three founders were able to exercise options to buy the company's stock. ''We had good lawyers,'' Mr. Knopf later commented in an interview. ''Everybody, including the original backers, was very happy.''
In the 1970s, economic conditions began to make it harder for independent publishers to stay afloat. After selling 10 percent of the company to Raytheon, the electronics conglomerate, Atheneum in 1978 merged with Charles Scribner's Sons, another independent house, to form a third entity, Scribner Book Companies, of which Charles Scribner Jr. became chairman and Mr. Knopf vice chairman, although both houses continued to operate independently. Mr. Haydn and Mr. Bessie had both left Atheneum by then.
In 1984, Scribner Book Companies was acquired by Macmillan Inc., and Mr. Knopf assumed responsibility for all adult books put out by Scribner's houses. He continued as a senior vice president of Macmillan until his retirement in 1988.
Mr. Knopf was born in White Plains, N.Y., on June 17, 1918. At 7 he was sent to boarding school, first at the Riverdale Country Day School, in the Bronx, then from 1933 until 1937 at Phillips Exeter Academy. The summer after he graduated from Exeter, according to a 1959 story in Time magazine, he ran away from home, despondent over being turned down by Princeton and determined (he said in a note) not to return until he made good. Following a police search, he was found in Salt Lake City, ''barefoot, hungry and broke.''
After attending Union College for three years, he was inspired by the Veronica Lake film ''I Wanted Wings'' to join the United States Army Air Force, which called him up in December 1941. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for his work in the 446th Bomb Group in the Eighth Air Force, rising to the rank of captain. (Union awarded him a B.A. in 1945.)
When he was discharged, he telephoned his father, who asked what he planned to do for a career. ''I guess I'm going to work for you,'' he said, and did. In 1952, he married Alice Laine. They had three children, Alison Insinger and Susan Knopf of New York and David A. Knopf of San Francisco.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alfred A. Knopf Jr. in 1978
 in 1959, a brownstone bookman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY SETTLE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PUBLISHING (92%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); HOLOCAUST (72%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



641 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Unease Over Weather's Role, in a City Known for Snow

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Paul Lane and Michael D. Regan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- It does not take a weather buff to know that this corner of New York, squeezed between two giant lakes, takes a beating every year from ice, wind and snow. The decades here are marked by legendary storms: the St. Patrick's Day blizzard of 1936; 28 people dead in a 1977 blizzard; the wind-driven gusts off Lake Erie that buried the city in white in 1985.
Continental Connection Flight 3407 was flying into this notoriously wintry landscape on Thursday night when it crashed into a house in the hamlet of Clarence Center, near Buffalo Niagara International Airport, killing all 49 on board and one man inside the house. 
Beyond the loss of life, the circumstances of the crash have also struck a discordant note among some longtime residents for whom traveling in inclement weather is a fact of life.
Though there was light snow and some haze and light wind on Thursday night, the weather conditions were relatively moderate. And while Flight 3407's crew spoke to air traffic controllers about ice building up on the plane, the model of aircraft they were flying -- a turboprop Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 not quite a year old -- was equipped with some of the most sophisticated equipment available to deal with icing.
Several other planes bound for the Buffalo airport that night reported icing, too, and yet they all landed safely.
Until Thursday, the Buffalo airport had never had an airline crash, weather-related or otherwise, said Don Paul, the chief meteorologist for WIVB-TV, the CBS affiliate in Buffalo. ''In fact, this place is famous for keeping the airport open, for being a highly efficient airport, in difficult weather conditions, and these were not difficult conditions,'' he said.
Mr. Paul, 61, who has worked in Buffalo since 1984, said the last ''airport weather observation'' on Thursday, taken at 9:54 p.m., 26 minutes before the crash, showed that the temperature on the ground was 33 degrees, with wind from the southwest blowing at 17 miles per hour, visibility of 3 miles and skies free of clouds up to 2,700 feet. All in all, Mr. Paul said, ''a-dime-a-dozen winter weather conditions'' that were ''not even close to minimum flight safety conditions.''
Why the plane plunged so swiftly -- whether it was the ice, or how the crew performed or how the airplane's systems performed -- has not been determined, and may not be for some time. But early clues suggest that the weather may have been a factor.
The crew was heard on the plane's cockpit voice recorder describing ice building up on the windshield and the wings, according to investigators.
The plane crash in this Rust Belt city once known as the Queen City of the Great Lakes has wounded the community's psyche, which has been battered by the disappearance of jobs and the implosion of the housing market. Forbes magazine ranked Buffalo No. 8 on its list of the 10 most miserable cities in the country based on factors like weather, work commute times, income tax rates, unemployment and how the city's sports teams had fared. ''If you like snow, Buffalo is your place, to the tune of 90 inches a year,'' the magazine said. ''More than any other metro area that has a million people.''
Gerard J. Sentz, the commissioner of the Department of Public Works for Erie County, which includes Buffalo, said, ''Winter for us really starts in the spring.''
Yet residents take pride in being prepared, in managing the volume of snow, ice and slush that would make other cities buckle.
''Buffalo gets socked earlier in the winters than most places do, and that makes us a hearty bunch,'' said Tom Yotz, the historian for the city of Niagara Falls, N.Y., north of Buffalo. ''You wouldn't live here if you were bothered by cold.''
It gets so cold most winters, Mr. Yotz said, that the mist that wafts from the massive falls freezes when it hits the trees that line the falls, encasing them in ice. The harshest snowfalls in the area, he said, are the result of lake-effect winds blowing cold air from Canada over Lake Erie -- Buffalo sits on its eastern end -- particularly when the lake does not freeze over. The deadly blizzard in 1977 was triggered when the winds shifted and blew over Lake Ontario, several miles north of the city, rather than Lake Erie.
''The blizzard of '77 is probably the next biggest catastrophe that we had, if it's weather-related,'' said Bob Weaver, 59, the owner of Bob Weaver Motorsports and Marine, a store in North Tonawanda, N.Y., that sells snowmobiles.
A meteorologist with the Buffalo office of the National Weather Service said the average high temperature at ground level in February was 32 degrees, and the average low was 18 degrees; the average snowfall for February was 17 inches, and so far this month the city had accumulated 6.5 inches. This winter, 80 inches of snow has fallen, and a large storm is predicted to arrive on Wednesday.
Though the snow that had been on the ground melted last week when temperatures reached 60 degrees, Mr. Sentz said this winter had been colder than in recent years and more like the ones he remembered as a boy.
Chris Collins, the Erie County executive, said residents were eager to understand what the National Transportation Safety Board says about what role the ice and cold might have played in the crash.
''Many of us have spent many hours on runways with planes being deiced,'' said Mr. Collins. ''Deicing is a way of life here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Crews worked to remove debris from the crash site of Continental Connection Flight 3407. Weather conditions were relatively moderate when the plane crashed Thursday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Map details site of airplane crash. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); WEATHER (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); LAKES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (76%); AVIONICS (76%); METEOROLOGY (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (71%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



642 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Wall Street Needs Incentives

 BODY:
Congratulations to Congress for stimulating America's most innovative financial wizards at the economy's greatest time of need. Thanks to an 11th-hour amendment to the stimulus bill in the Senate, the fiscal alchemists of Wall Street are mobilizing their forces en masse.
Unfortunately, their imminent objective will not be to fix the financial system and get the global economy moving again. Rather it will be to find ways around this misguided piece of populist legislation and pay back government funds prematurely -- a decision that risks bringing the banking system back into panic mode. 
Restrictions on the top five executives of firms that have or will receive government assistance aren't the problem. After all, seasoned financial honchos like John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley are already loaded and, at this point, more concerned with securing agreeable places in history than adding a Ferrari to the garage.
The bigger problem with this last-minute zinger from Senator Christopher Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, is that it caps incentive payments to the 20 highest paid executives at banks receiving Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, funds. The bill, if signed into law by President Obama, would restrict merit pay to no more than a third of an individual executive's total salary.
In practice, that means managing directors at, say, Goldman Sachs who are paid about $250,000 in salary, could only make a bonus of $175,000 apparently regardless of whether it comes in cash, in stock that can't be cashed in for years, or in Yankees tickets.
So what? Goldman and 349 other banks have taken cheap loans from taxpayers. It's only right that some limits should be imposed. The problem is that the restrictions work against the logical, capitalistic idea of offering incentives for workers to do a good job.
The goal of compensation reform should be to ensure that pay is more closely linked to performance, not less so as the stimulus bill's provisions would require. Under the new rules, banks will have every incentive to increase salaries across the board to remain competitive with banks at home and abroad that aren't subject to the restrictions, like Credit Suisse, Barclays, Deutsche Bank or UBS.
That would destroy one good thing about Wall Street -- its flexible cost structure. By paying relatively low salaries, investment banks have historically adjusted pay according to earnings and economic circumstances. True, over the last few years that flexibility was sacrificed as workers tended to view large bonuses as an entitlement.
But the cap doesn't really address that. It runs the risk instead of widely promoting mediocrity. Big potential earners -- and everyone worth their salt on Wall Street one day expects to join this league -- will naturally flee TARP-tainted firms.
After all, the investment banker who works tirelessly to land an advisory deal for Warren E. Buffett or General Electric that requires skill in lucrative capital markets deserves to be paid a slice of the income generated. Ditto the trader that reins in the risk at the right moment, saving the firm or its clients tens of millions.
An intelligent reform of Wall Street would ensure that the profits these bankers and traders generated were not fleeting, like the ones Merrill Lynch and Citigroup booked on collateralized debt obligations one year that led to billions of losses in succeeding years. Similarly, legislation fostering best practices, like claw-back provisions where an executive has to return money, would have been welcomed.
Of course, there's a way around Senator Dodd's amendment -- just pay back the government. In fact, the stimulus bill also relaxed rules requiring banks to raise a like amount of private capital when returning TARP funds. If accelerating repayment was Senator Dodd's intent, then so be it.
But that runs counter to the stated designs of the bailout under the Bush administration and President Obama. TARP was meant to bolster confidence in the capital adequacy of banks so that they'd get lending again. Indeed, that's why banks like JPMorgan and Wells Fargo were required to take the money over their executives' protestations.
Trouble is, the cost of refinancing the money in today's blighted capital markets would be prohibitively expensive. While the banks might replace some of the funds in the capital markets, they'd be more likely to simply let their Tier 1 capital ratios -- their primary cushion against potential losses -- decline. That's hardly confidence-inducing.
ROB COX
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher Dodd wants to limit pay at firms taking TARP money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MERIT PAY (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN J MACK (53%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



643 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Twitter Raises $35 Million

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Twitter Raises $35 Million
 Twitter has raised $35 million in venture capital, bringing the microblogging start-up's total financing to $55 million.
 The new money came from Institutional Venture Partners and Benchmark Capital. Peter Fenton, a partner at Benchmark who has also invested in the Web 2.0 darlings Yelp and FriendFeed, will join the Twitter board. 
 The new capital comes on top of the $20 million it had raised from venture firms including Union Square Ventures, based in New York, and Spark Capital, based in Boston. The fund-raising round brings in two top West Coast venture firms.
 The company was not looking for new investors and still has money in the bank, said one of the founders, Biz Stone, above left. In December, the chief executive and another founder, Evan Williams, above right, said that although he had originally planned to raise more money in 2009, when the economy turned down, he decided not to. But the two new investors approached Twitter, Mr. Stone said, and ''we went for it.''
 The announcement from Mr. Williams appeared, of course, in fewer than 140 characters on Twitter: ''We raised more money. I feel very fortunate we were able to do this and very excited about what we will build. Go team.''
 Despite its growing popularity -- with the number of active users almost 10 times what it was a year ago, Mr. Stone said -- Twitter has not earned a single dollar. It does not sell advertising on its site and is free. The company plans to slowly roll out a revenue plan over the next few months. That will probably include charging businesses for certain features they can use to talk to customers on Twitter. CLAIRE CAIN MILLER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); WEB 2 (57%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: BENCHMARK CAPITAL (92%); INSTITUTIONAL VENTURE PARTNERS (92%); TWITTER INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%)

PERSON: BIZ STONE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



644 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Decade At Bernie's

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
By now everyone knows the sad tale of Bernard Madoff's duped investors. They looked at their statements and thought they were rich. But then, one day, they discovered to their horror that their supposed wealth was a figment of someone else's imagination.
 Unfortunately, that's a pretty good metaphor for what happened to America as a whole in the first decade of the 21st century. 
 Last week the Federal Reserve released the results of the latest Survey of Consumer Finances, a triennial report on the assets and liabilities of American households. The bottom line is that there has been basically no wealth creation at all since the turn of the millennium: the net worth of the average American household, adjusted for inflation, is lower now than it was in 2001. 
 At one level this should come as no surprise. For most of the last decade America was a nation of borrowers and spenders, not savers. The personal savings rate dropped from 9 percent in the 1980s to 5 percent in the 1990s, to just 0.6 percent from 2005 to 2007, and household debt grew much faster than personal income. Why should we have expected our net worth to go up?
 Yet until very recently Americans believed they were getting richer, because they received statements saying that their houses and stock portfolios were appreciating in value faster than their debts were increasing. And if the belief of many Americans that they could count on capital gains forever sounds naive, it's worth remembering just how many influential voices -- notably in right-leaning publications like The Wall Street Journal, Forbes and National Review -- promoted that belief, and ridiculed those who worried about low savings and high levels of debt.
 Then reality struck, and it turned out that the worriers had been right all along. The surge in asset values had been an illusion -- but the surge in debt had been all too real.
 So now we're in trouble -- deeper trouble, I think, than most people realize even now. And I'm not just talking about the dwindling band of forecasters who still insist that the economy will snap back any day now.
 For this is a broad-based mess. Everyone talks about the problems of the banks, which are indeed in even worse shape than the rest of the system. But the banks aren't the only players with too much debt and too few assets; the same description applies to the private sector as a whole.
 And as the great American economist Irving Fisher pointed out in the 1930s, the things people and companies do when they realize they have too much debt tend to be self-defeating when everyone tries to do them at the same time. Attempts to sell assets and pay off debt deepen the plunge in asset prices, further reducing net worth. Attempts to save more translate into a collapse of consumer demand, deepening the economic slump.
 Are policy makers ready to do what it takes to break this vicious circle? In principle, yes. Government officials understand the issue: we need to ''contain what is a very damaging and potentially deflationary spiral,'' says Lawrence Summers, a top Obama economic adviser.
 In practice, however, the policies currently on offer don't look adequate to the challenge. The fiscal stimulus plan, while it will certainly help, probably won't do more than mitigate the economic side effects of debt deflation. And the much-awaited announcement of the bank rescue plan left everyone confused rather than reassured.
 There's hope that the bank rescue will eventually turn into something stronger. It has been interesting to watch the idea of temporary bank nationalization move from the fringe to mainstream acceptance, with even Republicans like Senator Lindsey Graham conceding that it may be necessary. But even if we eventually do what's needed on the bank front, that will solve only part of the problem.
 If you want to see what it really takes to boot the economy out of a debt trap, look at the large public works program, otherwise known as World War II, that ended the Great Depression. The war didn't just lead to full employment. It also led to rapidly rising incomes and substantial inflation, all with virtually no borrowing by the private sector. By 1945 the government's debt had soared, but the ratio of private-sector debt to G.D.P. was only half what it had been in 1940. And this low level of private debt helped set the stage for the great postwar boom.
 Since nothing like that is on the table, or seems likely to get on the table any time soon, it will take years for families and firms to work off the debt they ran up so blithely. The odds are that the legacy of our time of illusion -- our decade at Bernie's -- will be a long, painful slump. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



645 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Working Man

BYLINE: By KONOMI ARA. 
KONOMI ARA, a professor of American literature and culture at the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies

DATELINE: Tokyo 

 BODY:
 EVEN Japanese schoolchildren know about Lincoln. They may have read translations of books like Fred Trump's ''Lincoln's Little Girl,'' or biographies written by Japanese authors. These children are drawn to stories about Lincoln much in the same way that American youngsters read Horatio Alger's rags-to-riches stories in the 19th century. 
 Japanese children, after all, don't know much about Lincoln's political philosophy. They just like his life story: Lincoln was born to poor parents. He lived in a log cabin. He became a respectable statesman through honesty, diligence and hard work. He rose to be the president who freed slaves. In general, the Japanese admire greatness that is hard-won.
 Lincoln, who rebuilt his nation, has inspired our reformers as well. During the Meiji Restoration of the late 19th century, Japan reinvented itself. Lincoln was one of the role models for the reformers, some of whom traveled to the United States in the 1860s and returned home with words of praise for American democracy. After World War II, Japan had to re-invent itself again. First came the challenge of creating a democratic consciousness in Japan. Lincoln helped. Around this time, the Gettysburg Address became popular in high school textbooks. To this day, almost all Japanese high school students know the phrase ''government of the people, by the people, for the people.''
 We also faced the economic challenge of rebuilding our country from the ashes of war. We saw Lincoln, unlike Washington or Jefferson, as a self-made man. During that poverty-stricken postwar period, we hoped someday that our lives, and our country, would be better. Working hard like Lincoln, we thought, was the path to success.
 -- KONOMI ARA, a professor of American literature and culture at the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



646 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Union Ratifies Contract With Sikorsky

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Workers at the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation ratified a new contract Sunday covering about 5,100 of the company's union employees in Connecticut and Florida. 
 The five-year collective bargaining agreement takes effect at midnight Monday between Sikorsky and members of Teamsters Local 1150.
 Teamsters leaders said Sunday that the new contract included wage increases of 18.5 percent over its five-year span; ratification bonuses of $5,000 an employee; and company increases to pension and 401(k) contributions.
 Sikorsky, based in Stratford, Conn., is a subsidiary of the United Technologies Corporation. It makes the United States Army's Black Hawk, as well as other helicopters.
 Laurie Havanec, Sikorsky's vice president for human resources, said the company was ''extremely pleased'' by the contract ratification.
 The workers covered under the new contract are hourly employees at Sikorsky's Stratford, Bridgeport and Shelton locations in Connecticut, along with about 600 at its facility in West Palm Beach, Fla.
 The company is benefiting from strong military sales and doing well in a brutal recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (91%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (86%); ARMIES (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HELICOPTERS (73%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%)

COMPANY: SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT CORP (91%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



647 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Industry Makes Pitch That Smartphones Belong in Classroom

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The cellphone industry has a suggestion for improving the math skills of American students: spend more time on cellphones in the classroom.
 At a conference this week in Washington called Mobile Learning 09, CTIA, a wireless industry trade group, plans to start making its case for the educational value of cellphones. It will present research -- paid for by Qualcomm, a maker of chips for cellphones -- that shows so-called smartphones can make students smarter.
 Some critics already are denouncing the effort as a blatantly self-serving maneuver to break into the big educational market. But proponents of selling cellphones to schools counter that they are simply making the same kind of pitch that the computer industry has been profitably making to educators since the 1980s. 
 The only difference now between smartphones and laptops, they say, is that cellphones are smaller, cheaper and more coveted by students. 
 ''This is a device kids have, it's a device they are familiar with and want to take advantage of,'' said Shawn Gross, director of Digital Millennial Consulting, which received a $1 million grant from Qualcomm to conduct the research. 
 His group is also talking to school districts in Chicago, San Diego and Florida about buying specially equipped phones for the classroom. It projects that wireless companies could sell 10 million to 15 million phones as a result of this effort in the next few years.
 On Tuesday, Digital Millennial will release findings from its study of four North Carolina schools in low-income neighborhoods, where ninth- and 10th-grade math students were given high-end cellphones running Microsoft's Windows Mobile software and special programs meant to help them with their algebra studies.
 The students used the phones for a variety of tasks, including recording themselves solving problems and posting the videos to a private social networking site, where classmates could watch. The study found that students with the phones performed 25 percent better on the end-of-the-year algebra exam than did students without the devices in similar classes.
 The students also were allowed 900 minutes of talk time and 300 text messages a month to use outside of class. Teachers monitored the messages and reprimanded students if any of the activity violated the school's standards.
 Critics point out that access to such communications usually detracts from the overall time students spent thinking about studies. That is why at least 10 states, and many other school districts, have outright bans on cellphones on school premises.
 ''Texting, ringing, vibrating,'' said Janet Bass, a spokeswoman for the American Federation of Teachers, the nation's second largest teachers' union. ''Cellphones so far haven't been an educational tool. They've been a distraction.'' Ms. Bass says it is ''almost laughable that the cellphone industry is pushing a study showing that cellphones will make kids smarter,'' particularly during a recession that is crushing the budgets of many school districts. 
 For the industry, however, there is a lot of money at stake. Schools now spend hundreds of millions of dollars on computers to provide an average of one computer for every three students, at a cost of $1,000 a year for each machine.
 Bill Rust, an education and technology analyst at the Gartner Group, a research firm, said smartphones could help in some aspects of education. But he said that computers and their larger screens offer a range of teaching opportunities, in addition to helping students to write papers and do research online.
 ''I'd like to see if they can improve writing skills with a cellphone,'' he said.
 There have been previous attempts to bring cellphones into schools. Last year, 2,500 New York City public school students got an exemption from the city's overall ban on cellphones and received a free Samsung flip-phone. They could earn prepaid minutes for good behavior and high test scores, and teachers could send them text messages, reminding them of deadlines. The project was later abandoned for lack of money.
 This latest attempt to get cellphones into schools might quell some of the old concerns while raising new ones. Suzette Kliewer, the teacher who administered the Digital Millennial program at Southwest High School in Jacksonville, N.C., said the phones excited her students and made them collaborate and focus on their studies, even outside of school hours. ''They took average-level kids and made them into honors-level kids,'' she said.
 But Ms. Kliewer also said that she spent much of her own time at night, and during weekends and holidays, monitoring the students' phone use and occasionally disconnecting phones remotely when students broke the rules.
 ''You have to be willing to put in the time and be very patient with the technology,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at Southwest High School in Jacksonville, N.C., were given cellphones with programs to help with algebra studies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTY OLIVER) (pg.B1)
 A teacher at Southwest High School in Jacksonville, N.C., said the special cellphones helped students improve their math skills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTY OLIVER) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%)

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (57%)

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



648 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Poor Children Need Their Head Start

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Head Start Falls Further Behind,'' by Douglas J. Besharov and Douglas M. Call (Op-Ed, Feb. 8): 
 Head Start is not, as Mr. Besharov and Mr. Call argue, failing. Nearly four decades of research show that Head Start works for the children and families it serves. Two nationally representative studies -- the Head Start Impact Study and the Family and Child Experiences Survey -- show that Head Start programs are of consistently good quality.
 Head Start parents are not unhappy. In fact, the President's Management Council reported that the Head Start program received the highest customer satisfaction score of any government agency. 
 The program's financing is going down, not up. Between fiscal years 2002 and 2008, Head Start financing decreased by 13 percent after adjusting for inflation. In fact, the financing relative to the number of poor children under the age of 5 has decreased by 26 percent over the same period. 
 Vigorous debate about Head Start is always welcome. But it is time to give the tired games of the Bush administration a rest.
 Ron Herndon Alexandria, Va., Feb. 9, 2009
 The writer is chairman of the board of the National Head Start Association. 
 To the Editor:
 Douglas J. Besharov and Douglas M. Call never acknowledge that Head Start was recently renewed and improved.
 While the program has prepared millions of poor black and Latino children to thrive in school, it was clear to us and others that it could be strengthened. And Congress did just that. In 2007, Head Start was renewed with greater emphasis on teacher quality, academic instruction and services to English-language-learning children and families. 
 The writers say that the money in the stimulus bill has ''no strings attached,'' that the bill ''does not require any real change in return'' for the funding. But every dollar Head Start receives in the economic recovery legislation will be subject to the reforms approved by Congress two years ago. 
 The education of very young children should be a priority for everyone. It is not clear to us how rehashing tired debates about Head Start helps.
 Janet Murguia Carol Brunson-Day Washington, Feb.10, 2009
 The writers are, respectively, president of the National Council of La Raza and president of the National Black Child Development Institute. 
 To the Editor:
 It is a great mistake to push the accountability-through-testing movement down to preschoolers and toddlers in Head Start. Young children are not test takers, nor can their growth and development be summed up in a test score or simple measurement like how many words they know. 
 Tests set up the children in Head Start to feel like failures when they do not know the answers. Instead, the goal of an educational system truly devoted to bridging the learning gap must be to nurture our youngest children to become individuals excited about learning and feeling competent about their abilities to engage the environment and learn. 
 This is a far more complex process than a test score.
 Tovah Klein New York, Feb. 9, 2009
 The writer is an associate professor of psychology at Barnard College, director of its Center for Toddler Development and developmental adviser to ''Sesame Street.''
 To the Editor:
 As evidence that Head Start is failing, Douglas J. Besharov and Douglas M. Call refer to a study that found little meaningful impact. But a large body of research demonstrates substantial long-term educational benefits for children as well as a positive impact on social-emotional development, health and a positive impact on families.
 The authors decry the elimination of the National Reporting System, which they say would show how well centers were doing. The test was terminated because it did not produce reliable results -- it was poorly constructed, developmentally inappropriate and caused emotional distress to young children.
 The authors could have expressed their objection to funds for Head Start in the stimulus package without attempting to discredit a program that has done so much good for poor children and their families.
 Stephanie Feeney Portland, Ore., Feb. 9, 2009
 The writer is professor emerita of education, University of Hawaii.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LOREN CAPELLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (71%); APPROVALS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HEAD START ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



649 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Cellphone Makers Are Starting to Offer 'Green' Features

BYLINE: By ERIC SYLVERS

 BODY:
Is it better to save the earth, or to save money? 
 As the world economy drops further into crisis, more cellphone users may be confronting that choice. 
 Until now, there have been few models available of so-called green, or environmentally friendly, mobile phones, so consumers have been able to dodge the question. That is slowly changing, as the mobile phone industry looks for ways to appeal to a growing segment of consumers who want to reduce their carbon footprints.
 At the Mobile World Congress, this week in Barcelona, Spain, several mobile phone makers are taking the opportunity to gauge consumer interest in green products. But analysts say the industry needs to be mindful of budgetary constraints of consumers. 
 ''People aren't going to care about environmentally friendly mobile phones until the green products cost less than the regular ones,'' said Tom Byrd, an industry analyst with CCS Insight in Solihull, England. ''It's good that manufacturers are talking about this because it will raise demand down the road and prices will come down, but it will be two to five years before we see this as a mass market phenomenon.''
 Analysts say that Nokia, which made more than one of every three cellphones sold last year, will probably have to play a leading role in producing green phones before a critical mass is reached in the industry. 
 But Nokia, which is based in Finland, will not release any green cellphones this week and will instead promote an effort to put what it calls green features in as many of its mobiles as possible.
 These features include a light sensor that detects natural light, allowing the phone to save energy. Most Nokia phones now beep when they are fully charged, alerting the owner to detach the charger from the wall socket. 
 Motorola will be displaying its MOTO W233 Renew, which was released this month in the United States. The W233 is made using plastic from recycled water bottles and can itself be entirely recycled. The phone costs $9.99 with a two-year contract and for now can be bought only through T-Mobile. The phone is also sold in packaging made of 100 percent recycled paper and includes a prepaid shipping envelope for buyers to send in their old mobile phone for recycling.
 In addition, Motorola will pay to offset the carbon emissions created to manufacture and distribute the W233, as well as to recycle it at the end of its life. The payment will also cover the first two years of use. Motorola says the W233 is the first carbon-neutral phone.
 Based on a recommendation from the Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental advocacy group, Motorola's payments will be used to help a landfill in New Bedford, Mass., catch and use the methane gas it creates, said Bill Olson, the director of the Office of Sustainability and Stewardship at Motorola Mobile Devices.
 Mr. Olson said the W233 Renew was an outgrowth of an environmentally friendly concept phone designed in 2006.
 As with the W233, the concept phones show where the industry is headed, even though the majority of the phones will never be produced for sale.
 Late last year, Sony Ericsson presented a concept phone called GreenHeart, made with recycled biodegradable components. The charger draws a fraction of the power of most chargers when it is plugged into an outlet, but not connected to a phone. It is always more efficient to unplug a charger when not in use.
 ZTE, a Chinese manufacturer of telecommunications equipment, and the Latin American service provider Digicel said they would introduce what they called the first solar-powered, low-cost mobile phone on Wednesday in Barcelona. The phone's target audience could be the two billion people who have limited or no access to electricity, the companies said.
 Another way manufacturers are promoting their environmental credentials is through the applications their phones can run. The Nokia 5630 Xpress Music released last week has a preloaded application called ''we:offset'' that lets users measure their carbon emissions. There is also a link to a payment form for people who want to pay to offset the pollution they create.
 ''Recycling is very important and we continue to do a lot there, but there are also real opportunities with energy efficiency and creating services that help people make more sustainable choices,'' said Kirsi Sormunen, Nokia's vice president in charge of environmental affairs.
 The we:offset application and another called the Greenest Explorer are preloaded on some phones and can also be downloaded. On Tuesday in Barcelona, Nokia will announce the winner of a competition to make the best environmentally oriented application. 
 The finalists include an application that reduces paper consumption by using a bar code stored on the phone to gain admission to events, and one for the Chinese market that gives real-time mass transit information.
 These efforts come as the mobile phone industry is already reeling from a difficult 2008, and many in the industry have forecast that a turnaround could be more than two years off.
 Luke Thomas, a program manager for the consultant Frost & Sullivan wrote in an e-mail message: ''2009 will be a very difficult year for several businesses in the mobile and wireless industry.'' 
 ''It will be easier said than done to state that the market will bounce back by the end of 2009 as the sheer fact is that markets will begin to stabilize only toward the latter half of 2010 and attain positive growth by late 2011 or early 2012,'' Mr. Thomas said.
 While the industry makes its first tentative moves toward a more environmentally aware future, some say the impact of such programs will be minimal until the manufacturers increase the green characteristics of their most popular products.
 ''This is absolutely a niche product and niche market and niche audience,'' said Mr. Byrd, the CCS analyst. ''But there is an audience out there that cares about the environment and will pay more to lower their impact. This is where the industry is starting, the important step will be expanding to a broader audience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nokia's 5630 Xpress Music, left, has a program that lets users calculate their carbon emissions. Motorola's W233 is made from recycled plastic water bottles and can be entirely recycled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); GREEN MARKET (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CARBON OFFSETS (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (86%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (77%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (76%); METHANE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (67%); LANDFILLS (66%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (52%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (75%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



650 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
HOLIDAY WEEK The stock and bond markets, banks, government offices and many businesses will be closed in observance of Washington's Birthday (Monday). 
 ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include housing starts for January, industrial production and capacity utilization for January and the Federal Open Market Committee minutes for January (Wednesday); the Producer Price Index for January, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve manufacturing index for February and leading economic indicators for January (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for January (Friday).
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reporting are Medtronic and Wal-Mart Stores (Tuesday); CBS, Comcast, Deere, Goodyear Tire and Rubber and Hewlett-Packard (Wednesday); E. W. Scripps, Hormel Foods and Sprint Nextel (Thursday); and J. C. Penney and Lowe's (Friday).
 IN WASHINGTONGeneral Motors and Chrysler must submit their viability plans to the Treasury Department (Tuesday).
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks at the National Press Club in Washington (Wednesday).
 INDUSTRY EVENTS The Mobile World Congress opens in Barcelona, Spain (Monday).
 The American International Toy Fair takes place in New York (through Wednesday).
 Fashion Week continues in New York (through Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); TOYS & GAMES (71%); TIRES (69%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (83%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (71%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (83%); GT (SWX) (71%); GT (NASDAQ) (71%); GT (BRU) (71%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (71%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (71%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (71%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (71%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (71%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



651 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Call Landlord Expenses Exaggerated

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Landlords of rent-regulated apartments in New York City have been abusing a rule that allows them to raise rents after making improvements to vacant homes, according to a report by a tenant advocacy group.
 The report criticizes the state's housing agency for failing to monitor how landlords have been applying the rent increases to some of the city's 1.06 million rent-regulated apartments. In eight cases in the report, landlords were accused of claiming to have spent $12,000 to $60,000 on improvements in vacant apartments, performing few if any upgrades and then doubling or tripling the rent for new occupants.
 While the report reinforces long-held suspicions among many tenant advocates, the city's largest landlord group denounced it as misleading, and one of the property owners in the report defended the cost of the improvements that the tenant had claimed were exaggerated. 
 The two forms of rent regulation in the city -- rent stabilization and rent control -- limit the rent increases that landlords can charge. One of the few ways owners are permitted to significantly raise rents is through the apartment improvement rule.
 It allows a landlord to increase services, install new equipment or make other improvements to a vacant apartment and to add one-fortieth of the renovation costs to the monthly rent. A landlord who spent $40,000 on renovation work, for example, could add $1,000 to the rent. Painting and basic repairs are not considered improvements, but kitchen and bathroom modernizations are.
 The report on the so-called one-fortieth rule was prepared by the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, which is made up of nonprofit housing and community development groups. Its scheduled release on Wednesday comes amid growing criticism of the one-fortieth rent increases.
 Last week, the State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, introduced legislation to change the formula to one eighty-fourth of the renovation costs and to give the state's housing agency, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the authority to approve or reject the rent increases. 
 Currently, the agency, which oversees rent-regulated apartments, does not require a landlord to submit documentation or obtain its approval before making a one-fortieth rent increase. Only when a tenant challenges an increase by filing an overcharge complaint does the agency begin an inquiry.
 ''It really encourages fraud and misconduct,'' Irene Baldwin, executive director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, said of the lack of oversight.
 The landlord group, the Rent Stabilization Association, said it was unaware of any owners who had abused the one-fortieth rule. It said the rule was a necessary tool to preserve the city's private housing, most of which was built before World War II. Landlords have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in improvements in recent years, the group said.
 ''If you don't want housing to fall down around you, you've got to keep pumping money into it,'' said Jack Freund, executive vice president of the association, which represents 25,000 New York City property owners and managers.
 Jim Plastiras, a spokesman for the state housing agency, said it aggressively investigated all fraud complaints.
 Of the eight cases in the report, five of the tenants had filed complaints with the agency. It found that one of those tenants, a resident of Upper Manhattan who questioned $12,000 in improvements, had been illegally overcharged. It has not yet made a decision in the four other cases.
 One of the other cases went to trial in Bronx Housing Court in 2007. In that case, a judge found that a landlord had failed to prove that improvements were made, and awarded the tenant $35,000 for overcharge in rent, interest on the overcharge and damages. 
 The 11-page report does not include any statistics on fraud beyond the case studies, stating that because of lax oversight of the one-fortieth rule, it was difficult to find data to indicate the scale of the problem. The Rent Stabilization Association criticized the report for failing to provide data to support its claim of widespread fraud by landlords.
 ''Our report is not the exhaustive study on this, but it highlights what we've been hearing from community organizing groups on the ground for years,'' Ms. Baldwin said.
 According to the report and housing advocates, abuse of the one-fortieth rule has led to a rise in the deregulation of apartments. If a tenant vacates an apartment and the landlord makes enough improvements to increase the rent to more than $2,000, the apartment becomes deregulated and the owner is free to charge market-rate rents. 
 The one-fortieth increase, combined with the amount a landlord is allowed to automatically raise the rent on a vacated apartment, enables landlords to reach the $2,000 threshold fairly easily. The city's 2008 Housing and Vacancy Survey found that the number of rent-controlled units decreased by 3,000 from 2005 to 2008, and rent-stabilized units dropped by 17,000 in the same time period.
 In one case in the report, Barbara Kopcho, 30, said she was skeptical that the landlord of her one-bedroom apartment in Elmhurst, Queens, had spent $42,100 on improvements, so she filed an overcharge complaint in August. ''My rent was increased an additional $1,000 above what it legally should have been,'' she said.
 Ms. Kopcho's landlord, Vantage Properties, said it had made substantial renovations that justified the increase, and submitted an invoice for $42,100 from a construction company to the state agency. The invoice included $12,000 for a bathroom renovation, $4,200 for kitchen cabinets and $4,000 for the installation of new electrical wiring, among other work. Vantage said it paid the full amount on the invoice. Ms. Kopcho disputed its accuracy, saying it included some work that was not done.
 ''In the absence of provisions within the code such as the one-fortieth rule, no landlord would have either the incentive or the economic ability to make crucially needed investments in New York's deteriorating housing stock,'' said Neil Rubler, chief executive of Vantage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barbara Kopcho questioned the real cost of her landlord's renovations in Elmhurst, Queens, but the company invoice backed it up.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN ABRAMSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



652 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Day Laborers Are Easy Prey In New Orleans

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Jennifer Whitney contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
They are the men still rebuilding New Orleans more than three years after Hurricane Katrina, the head-down laborers from Honduras, Mexico and Guatemala who work on the blazing hot roofs and inside the fetid homes for a wad of cash at the end of the day. 
 But on the street, these laborers are known as ''walking A.T.M.'s.''
 Their pockets stuffed with bills, the laborers are vulnerable because of language problems and their status as illegal immigrants. And as Hispanics have become the prey of choice in crumbling neighborhoods here in one of America's most crime-ridden cities, racial friction between the newcomers and longtime black residents has moved close to the surface. 
 Geovanny Billado, a worker from Honduras, spoke of one incident in which ''they waited to punch me,'' and ''one of them stabs me with a knife.'' It was four against one, Mr. Billado said, and he lost the $350 he had earned; another time, it was seven against one. 
 ''You don't get a chance to say anything,'' he said. ''They just fall on top of you. It's better to just give the money up front. If you don't give it to them, they'll beat you and take it anyway.''
 It is an under-the-radar crime epidemic: unarmed Hispanic workers are regularly mugged, beaten, chased, stabbed or shot, the police and the workers themselves say. The ruined homes they sometimes squat in, doubling- or quadrupling-up at night, are broken into, and they have been made to lie face down while being robbed. 
 They are shot when, not understanding a mugger's command, they fail to hand over their cash quickly enough, shot while they are working on houses, and shot when they go home for the day. Some have been killed, their bodies flown home to families who had been dependent on their remittances. 
 News reports suggest that at least a half-dozen Hispanic workers have been shot and killed in the metropolitan area since Hurricane Katrina, though the police say they have no idea of the precise number. At least once a week, the police receive reports of a mugging or a holdup -- certainly an undercount, since illegal workers with little or no English generally do not go to the authorities.
 For the workers, the violence is a grim fact of their life here, one more risk among many. Waiting for work on recent chilly mornings outside a Lowe's store on Elysian Fields Avenue and at the edge of an inner-city gas station, more than a dozen Hispanic workers spoke of their vulnerability -- to the bosses they see as cheating them, the police they see as harassing or ignoring them, and the criminals who prey on them. 
 Unshaven after spending nights in the open air and ragged in their paint-flecked work clothes, the men said that when guns are pointed at them, they have no choice but to hand over their cash. 
 When the day is over, and their employer for the day drops them off in the darkened Lowe's parking lot, thugs could be waiting in the shadows for them, several said. 
 With resignation but no visible anger, more than half told of being threatened or robbed. One man, Armando Cruz, from Honduras, asserted flatly, to nods of assent, ''Most of us here have been robbed.'' 
 Many bluntly assigned a racial component, saying that it was ''los morenos'' -- their colloquial term for blacks -- who were after them. ''When we are leaving here after work, we have to go on foot,'' Mr. Billado said, speaking through an interpreter. ''The blacks are waiting for us. They'll beat you up. They'll take your money.'' 
 Such incidents can occur more than once a week, Mr. Billado said. 
 The police, the men said, either ignore their calls, admonish them for being in the country illegally or arrive too late at a crime scene to do any good. 
 ''The blacks know when we have cash,'' said Juan Guillermo Medina, another waiting worker. ''Yes, it's dangerous. But we have to be here. It's the risk we run.''
 Juan Francisco Suazo, another worker, recounted an incident in January outside a grocery when he was jumped by two men, one of whom grabbed him around the shoulders while the other brandished a milk crate over his head. The muggers took five days' wages, Mr. Suazo said. 
 Outside the Lowe's, another Honduran, Danny Diaz, recalled an incident in which he and a friend were coming out of a store and were ordered to turn over their money by two armed men. His friend was shot in the shoulder, Mr. Diaz said; it was one of three times Mr. Diaz had been assaulted in two months. 
 Roger Cruz, from Honduras, said: ''A lot of people don't know how to defend themselves. There's racism of blacks against Latinos.''
 The accusation of racism does not ring true to some city leaders. The Hispanic workers tacitly acknowledge some unfamiliarity with the dangerous ways of inner-city life, and in the eyes of some in New Orleans, they have mistaken simple opportunism for racism. 
 It is not exactly racial prejudice that makes the Hispanic laborers the target of choice, said the Rev. John C. Raphael Jr., a black former New Orleans police officer and now a minister who has led anticrime rallies here. 
 ''I think it's not directly racial,'' Mr. Raphael said, but rather ''the fact that they were vulnerable, they were taken advantage of.''
 Mr. Raphael, one of the most prominent faces in the anticrime movement in New Orleans, called the widespread crime against Hispanic workers a ''tremendous tragedy.'' 
 ''These guys work hard all day,'' he said, noting the contrast between the massed laborers waiting for work at a gas station at the corner of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Claiborne Avenue and a group of men drinking beer in the median nearby. 
 Janssen Valencia, a police officer who acts as an interpreter and occasionally as a radio counselor for Hispanic laborers here, urges them to hide their money and vary their walking patterns. 
 ''It's very sad that they're here helping us rebuild, yet you have an element that's targeting them,'' Officer Valencia said. ''They work all week. Then comes the weekend, they get robbed.''
 ''What they really voice is: 'That money was for the family. We don't harm anybody. Why does anybody mess with us?' ''
 As work has tightened up with the economic downturn, the atmosphere has turned even grimmer. The muggings continue unabated, even as work days drop off. 
 ''They took money from everybody,'' said Cesar Reynoso, a Guatemalan, recalling the afternoon in December when he and five friends were robbed in the rough Central City neighborhood. They were in a sports field, Mr. Reynosa said, and four men pointed guns at them. They took $1,200 from the laborers. 
 ''They just came up and took our stuff,'' he said. ''They were just yelling at us.'' 
 He said the laborers called the police, ''but they took forever to get there.'' 
 The men expressed some bewilderment at finding themselves in the crosshairs, and more than a few directed earnest appeals to President Obama to alleviate their plight. 
 ''We dedicate ourselves to look for work, and we just want the chance to be here,'' said Mr. Cruz, the Honduran. ''We have children to support.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hispanic laborers waiting for work in New Orleans. Payday brings danger, they say. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ROBBERY (88%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); HONDURAS (93%); GUATEMALA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



653 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Unfair Proposals to Pay for Mass Transit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''If Drivers Win, Riders Lose'' (editorial, Feb. 10) states that drivers should pay their ''fair share'' to support the transit operations of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and argues that drivers don't contribute enough. But how much is enough? 
 Right now, M.T.A. bridge tolls are 300 percent of what it costs to operate existing M.T.A. bridges and tunnels. On the other hand, bus and subway fares currently cover only about 60 percent of the system's operating costs. 
 In fact, about $600 million a year in M.T.A. toll revenue goes directly to support bus, subway and rail operations, and those toll subsidies help make New York subway and bus fares modest. 
 In fact, thanks to MetroCard discounts and free transfers, only a fraction of transit riders pay the full $2 fare.
 The transportation authority needs to be placed on a sounder fiscal footing, and drivers are not unsympathetic to the M.T.A.'s efforts to stabilize transit fares and the revenue foundation for both its capital program and operational budget. 
 But drivers face many of the same economic pressures as transit riders; therefore, it is fundamentally unfair to continually rely on heavier and heavier toll revenue subsidies to stabilize M.T.A. transit capital and operating expenses.
 John A. Corlett Chairman, Legislative Committee AAA New York State Garden City, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As president of Pattern for Progress, a planning and policy organization in the Hudson Valley, I take issue with your reference to the effects of a proposed mobility tax, which you call ''a modest tax per employee.''
 This is anything but a ''modest'' tax. At one-third of 1 percent of total payroll for any employer, even sole proprietors and nonprofits, in the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's service territory, this is a jobs killer. The heads of two of our hospital centers say the tax would cause elimination of 10 full-time positions from their respective staffs.
 While we support the need for a viable mass transit system, this tax -- which would be the sixth in a series of taxes and fees already going to the M.T.A. -- would put a disproportionate burden on the four mid-Hudson counties whose access to the M.T.A.'s services is extremely limited. 
 Jonathan Drapkin President and Chief Executive Pattern for Progress Newburgh, N.Y., Feb. 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



654 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: For Talking Heads, a Spot to Relax and Sip Coffee, on Webcam

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
So a television producer walks into a bar. He hears a singer crooning. Before long, the producer books the singer to talk about the mortgage market on his daytime talk show.
 Maybe that's not exactly the way things go for most bar jokes or for most talk shows. But it is standard operating procedure for Mike Straka, the producer of ''The Strategy Room,'' a discussion show that runs eight hours every weekday, streamed from FoxNews.com.
 And thus one night at A. J. Maxwell's, a steakhouse in Midtown Manhattan, Mr. Straka invited the lounge singer Tony D'Ville on the show. Mr. D'Ville sang a Sinatra tune and then discussed the mortgage crisis. 
 Fox is a latecomer to producing live news programming for the Web. CNN and ABC News have had video channels streaming online for a few years. Those webcasts mimic the format of traditional cable news channels, with a mix of anchored newscasts and specialized programs.
 ''The Strategy Room,'' by contrast, resembles ABC's ''The View'' mixed with a dash of Rush Limbaugh and a generous helping of ''Wayne's World.'' The program began as a series of special webcasts on the evenings of some of the major presidential primaries and then during the political conventions. Then Fox turned it into a five-day-a-week, 9-to-5 session in September, produced on a budget hardly more than pocket change.
 It tries to make its rough edges a virtue, defining it as a news channel for the YouTube world. Hosts, Fox correspondents and guests of all sorts wander on and off camera, drinking coffee and soda, tapping at their BlackBerrys and laptops, reading news and responding to comments from viewers. 
 When there is a news event, like a speech or press conference, viewers see the backs of the heads of the guests watching it on a big screen, throwing out wisecracks about the goings-on. Mr. Straka compares the format with the cult comedy series ''Mystery Science Theater 3000.'' 
 ''We are goofy over here,'' said Mr. Straka, who is also the vice president in charge of video for Foxnews.com. ''As long as we don't make it look like TV, I'll be happy.''
 ''The Strategy Room'' marks a new era of experimentation in webcasting video news. TV news operations are trying to tap into the appetite for longer online programming that has been whetted by entertainment sites like Hulu.com. 
 As with text Web sites, prime time for video news is the workday, when people want information or distraction at the office where they have fast Internet connections but no televisions.
 Will Richmond, the president of Broadband Directions, a consulting firm, said that even though many people are enjoying glossy high-definition programming on their large flat-panel televisions, they are equally accepting of much rougher edges on the Web. 
 ''Consumers have been so thrilled with the convenience of on-demand video that content providers have had more leeway with what they have been able to deliver,'' he said. ''The convenience benefits outweigh the slickness benefits.''
 Unlike CNN's largely separate webcast staff, most of the Fox webcast hosts also appear as reporters or anchors on Fox News Channel or Fox Business Network, although they are not the network's top stars. And many of the guests are people who appear in a short segment on the cable channel and then stay for a longer chat on the Web.
 MSNBC executives have decided not to try to create a mini-news network for the Web, although it does stream coverage of major events and breaking stories from NBC and its local stations.
 ''Users online have short attention spans. They want to go right to the content that interests them. And they don't want to wait,'' said Charlie Tillinghast, the general manager of MSNBC.com. The CNN and Fox streaming programs, he added, are ''repurposing the cable model to the Internet, as if there were no difference'' in the two media.
 CNN says that in 2008, CNN.com Live, its online channel, offered an average of 471,000 separate streams of video (programs of any length) each day, with a peak of more than 100,000 simultaneous viewers. So far, Fox's ''Strategy Room'' is far smaller. In December, it served an average of 25,000 streams a day. 
 While CNN is aiming its broadcast at a younger audience, Mr. Straka said that ''The Strategy Room'' is appealing to older viewers.
 ''There are a lot of people in their 50s watching the show, as well as people in their 20s,'' he said. And over all, he said, the political views of the viewers match those of Fox News Channel.
 ''We have more interaction with people who have a different political bent, but a majority of our audience is conservative,'' he said. 
 ''The Strategy Room'' has not yet brought in much money. Because of technological limitations, Fox plays only one video commercial when users begin watching. Eventually, Mr. Straka said, he wants to develop a way to insert commercials into the webcast and also to have small ads superimposed over the show. 
 But for now, his plan is to keep costs down, which reinforces the raw look he likes so much. ''The economics of Web video are not there yet,'' Mr. Straka said. ''That is why a low-budget operation like what we have is a win-win for everybody.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For eight hours every weekday, Fox News has a live webcast called ''The Strategy Room.'' Produced by Mike Straka, right, each hour features a host and several guests in a roundtable discussion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); WEBCASTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); BROADBAND (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (65%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%)

COMPANY: HULU LLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (56%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



655 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Venezuelans Vote On Term Limits
 Images of Venezuelans voting on a referendum that did away with term limits on elected officials, and cleared the way for President Hugo Chavez to run for re-election indefinitely. The vote also amounted to a test of his power after a steep fall in the price of oil; oil revenue has financed Mr. Chavez's broadly popular poverty-reduction projects. 
 nytimes.com/world 
 VIDEO: THE MONEY MESS
 Video trailers for Frontline's ''Inside the Meltdown'' and CNBC's ''House of Cards,'' two new documentaries that try to explain to the layman how the country's economy derailed.
 nytimes.com/tv
 City Room
 Harlem in the Depression
 Cheryl Lynn Greenberg, an associate professor of history at Trinity College and the author of ''Or Does It Explode?: Black Harlem in the Great Depression,'' will be answering readers' questions about the experience of African-Americans in New York City during the Depression.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: NEW MUSIC
 Audio clips from artists with new releases this week, including Morrissey, Ryan Leslie and Thursday.
 nytimes.com/music
 Times Topics
 Old Songs, New Look
 Past coverage of Paul Simon, who on Friday performed at the grand reopening of the Beacon Theater, after a $16 million makeover.
 nytimes.com/music
 SLIDESHOW: NEW EVIDENCE
 Photos from Program B of Evidence, a Dance Company's weeklong season at the Joyce Theater, which ended Sunday.
 nytimes.com/dance
 The TimesTraveler
 The Philharmonic,
 Mahler and a New Era
 On this day 100 years ago, The Times reported the start of a new era for the New York Philharmonic Orchestra as Gustav Mahler was named conductor. ''The present cooperative system will be abolished, and the orchestra will be under the absolute control of the conductor and the Board of Directors,'' the Times report said.
 nytimes.com/timestraveler
 The Carpetbagger
 Oscar Week Begins
 With voting on the Academy Awards closing tomorrow, the producers of the show are retooling to provide some surprises during the broadcast Sunday. The Carpetbagger takes stock of the week to come and prepares to head to Los Angeles to cover the races and Hollywood's effort to produce a tasteful celebration of film excellence at a time of widespread economic pain.
 nytimes.com/carpetbagger
 VIDEO: WELCOME TO THE FORCE
 A clip from Monday's episode of ''24,'' the Fox action serial, in which Janeane Garofalo and Mary Lynn Rajskub play two tech-savvy employees. Chloe, played by Ms. Rajskub, is introduced to the F.B.I.'s computers, and the F.B.I. is introduced to Chloe.
 nytimes.com/tv
 SLIDESHOW: CHORDS AND CRASHES
 Highlights from the Daytona 500, which was cut short by rain and won by Matt Kenseth.
 nytimes.com/sports
 TALK TO THE NEWSROOM
 ''This Land'' columnist Dan Barry will be answering readers' questions this week. Questions can be sent to: askthetimes@nytimes.com
 nytimes.com/talktothenewsroom
 Opinion
 Think Again
 Are Academics Different?
 Stanley Fish argues that college professors should not be given free speech privileges that others are denied.
 nytimes.com/thinkagain
 Revolt of the Car Dealers
 A video report on the continuing protests in Vladivostok, Russia, triggered by the Kremlin's imposition of a tariff on imported cars to protect the domestic car industry. Special riot police were recently sent some 9,000 miles from Moscow to break up the protests, above. Also, in a World View podcast, Clifford J. Levy discusses the Kremlin's growing concern over the protests.
 nytimes.com/world
 Question of the Day: Do smartphones belong in the classroom? Share your thoughts at: nytimes.com/technology

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS COEX/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
 GENNADY SHISHKIN/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (87%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); HISTORY (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); DANCE COMPANIES (70%); DANCE (70%); EVIDENCE (69%); AUTO RACING (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); THEATER (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



656 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Wins Bid to End Term Limits

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Sandra La Fuente P. and Maria Eugenia Diaz contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez handily won a referendum on Sunday that will end presidential term limits, allowing him to run for re-election indefinitely and injecting fresh vibrancy into his socialist-inspired revolution.
 The results, coming after voters had rejected a similar effort by Mr. Chavez just 15 months ago, pointed to his resilience after a decade in power, as well as to the fragmentation of his opposition, which as recently as November had won key mayoralties and governorships.
 The vote opens the way not only for Mr. Chavez to run for a new six-year term when his current one expires in 2013, but could also bolster his ambitious agenda as an icon of the left and a counterweight to American policies in Latin America. 
 It also creates a new foreign policy challenge for the Obama administration, strengthening a leader who has made a career of taunting and deriding the United States, even though Mr. Chavez just this weekend seemed to open the door for a different relationship. 
 At the risk of polarizing Venezuela's deeply divided society further, the victory could also strengthen Mr. Chavez's current mandate as he reacts to a sharp fall in the price of oil, the export commodity that has financed his broadly popular poverty-reduction projects. 
 Even as he appeared on national television from the balcony of Miraflores Palace in Caracas before a cheering crowd of supporters, moments after electoral officials announced the results, a palpable fear was setting in among the opposition that this former army officer could become their president for life.
 ''I am a soldier of the people,'' an ebullient Mr. Chavez exclaimed. ''I will obey the people's mandate.''
 About 54.4 percent of voters supported the proposal, with 45.6 percent voting against it, electoral officials said late Sunday, based on preliminary results with nearly complete returns.
 While Mr. Chavez's support ebbed from the 63 percent he secured in a presidential election in 2006, he remains by far Venezuela's dominant political personality.
 ''The destiny of the country is in play,'' said Alicia Villegas, 59, an economist who voted in favor of the president's proposal on Sunday morning at the Pedro Emilio Coll School in Coche, a working-class district of southern Caracas. ''I'm voting for the continuation of the process that we have begun.'' 
 The referendum was closely followed across Latin America. Populist leaders in several countries in the region, including Alvaro Uribe, Colombia's conservative president, and Nicaragua's leftist leader, Daniel Ortega, have recently been trying to remove legal barriers to running for re-election. 
 The United States, a frequent target of Mr. Chavez's ire, was also watching. The Obama administration so far has toned down its approach to dealing with Venezuela, one of the largest sources of imported crude oil to the United States. 
 Likewise, Mr. Chavez's view of Mr. Obama seems to have evolved. Relations have been tense between the two countries since the Bush administration tacitly supported a coup that briefly ousted Mr. Chavez in 2002. Just last month, he described Mr. Obama as having the ''same stench'' as Mr. Bush. 
 But on Saturday he said he was ready to engage in direct talks in an effort to repair relations with the United States.
 The vote, which was hastily arranged in the last two months, followed weeks of fierce campaigning on both sides. The campaigning was marked by antigovernment protests and attacks by supporters of Mr. Chavez on institutions viewed as critical of the president, including media organizations like the Globovision television network. 
 Still, representatives of opposition parties swiftly recognized Mr. Chavez's victory. Freddy Guevara, a prominent opposition leader, said the result called for ''a process of internal reflection.''
 Maria Corina Machado, the leader of Sumate, an election-monitoring group here that is critical of Mr. Chavez's government, said, ''This was a victory imposed by the abuse of state power.''
 ''This should not be seen as a defeat but as a national challenge,'' she said, citing elections next year for the National Assembly. Nevertheless, she did not significantly dispute the results. 
 Mr. Chavez resurrected the push to lift term limits after voters narrowly rejected the previous effort, which was bundled within a broader constitutional overhaul in December 2007. In recent weeks, the fractious opposition here used the slogan ''No means no,'' to remind voters of the outcome of the earlier vote. 
 But Mr. Chavez, 54, who was first elected president in 1998 amid broad disenchantment with Venezuela's political class, surprised opponents by recasting the referendum to include removing constitutional term limits for other elected officials. He has long argued that he needs time beyond his current six-year term to complete his transformation of the country.
 Mr. Chavez threw the weight of institutions controlled by his supporters, including the National Assembly and the entire federal bureaucracy, behind the proposal. Petroleos de Venezuela, the powerful national oil company, and CANTV, the national telephone company, were among state entities that mobilized employees to campaign for the measure. 
 Mayor Antonio Ledezma of Caracas and other recently elected mayors and governors who are critical of the president led the opposition in the campaign against Mr. Chavez's proposal. Antigovernment student groups joined the fray, facing tear-gas reprisals from security forces in protests in Caracas and provincial cities in recent weeks. 
 ''I wish I had woken up this Sunday morning trying to resolve the problem of trash collection or the problem of crime,'' Mr. Ledezma told reporters as he cast his ballot here. ''But, well, they shoved us into this referendum alley.'' 
 In the last days before the vote, life in this capital city seemed to shift into slow motion. Public offices shut down so government workers could attend rallies in favor of the proposal. Restaurants and bars obeyed an edict prohibiting liquor sales. 
 Mr. Chavez also tried to assert control over the activities of diehard supporters who attacked opposition-controlled institutions in recent weeks. Claiming last week that one group that supports him, La Piedrita, had been infiltrated by the C.I.A., he ordered the arrest of its leader, Valentin Santana. 
 Fears of a sharp economic slowdown this year seemed to weigh on some voters, despite Mr. Chavez's pledge to continue financing antipoverty programs. 
 ''Chavez is trying to camouflage the oil-price crisis with his elections and shows,'' said Carlos Segundo Moreno, 52, a businessman who voted in the Coche. 
 ''But the time has come to ask this man to leave,'' Mr. Moreno said. ''We are tired of the same government, the same president, the same shouting and the same insults.'' 
 Voting across the country unfolded calmly, without reports of widespread irregularities, electoral officials said. 
 At polling stations here, the sway of Mr. Chavez's ideology, which combines elements of Christian liberation theology and oil-financed social welfare projects with a fierce rejection of Washington's policies in Latin America, influenced some voters. 
 ''Voting is the people's weapon for defending our beliefs,'' said Ricardo Gauna, 47, a publicist in the slums of Catia in western Caracas who voted for the proposal. ''We have cut our umbilical cord to the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hugo Chavez, in a photo released by the government, addressed supporters Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRENSA MIRAFLORES, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); ARMIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); ALVARO URIBE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); NICARAGUA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



657 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: This President's Escape Is Sweet Home Chicago

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
For years, America has watched as its presidents retreated to ranches or New England retreats far from the madding crowds and the political gridlock of Washington.
 But not President Obama.
 On his first weekend back home in Chicago since being sworn in, Mr. Obama signaled that his time away from the White House would be spent on decidedly less rural pursuits.
 In an interview with a hometown newspaper, The Chicago Tribune, in December, Mr. Obama said he planned to return to Chicago every six or eight weeks. 
 ''My Kennebunkport is on the South Side,'' Mr. Obama said, in a reference to the picturesque retreat of President George Bush on the coast of Maine. And just days after they moved into the White House, Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, told a group of children at a Washington elementary school that they already needed to get out of the official first residence.
 But heading to one of the nation's busiest cities for a presidential getaway is quite a different undertaking than retreating to a bucolic rural setting.
 Throughout the weekend, flight restrictions for small planes were in place for a broad area around Mr. Obama's Hyde Park home. The neighborhood itself was cordoned off with police barricades and the heightened security measures with which residents have grown familiar when Mr. Obama is in town. 
 When Mr. Obama took his wife out for a Valentine's Day dinner on Saturday night, their heavily armored sedan was trailed through the city streets by a cavalcade of black S.U.V.'s, police cars, Secret Service vehicles and a bus for news people.
 Still, leaving the protracted battle over the economic stimulus plan and the difficulties of some of his cabinet nominees behind him, Mr. Obama sought a return to the familiar in Chicago: He worked out at a favorite gym. He played basketball with his buddies at the Chicago Laboratory School. He got a haircut from his favorite barber at a friend's apartment. ''This weekend was a good time for the family to spend time in Chicago and see a few friends,'' the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said in an e-mail message. 
 ''The presidency follows you everywhere,'' said Gordon D. Johndroe, who, as a White House spokesman, often accompanied President George W. Bush to Crawford, Tex., for long weekends. ''But the opportunity to go back to your home state or your personal home is one that presidents relish.''
 On Friday, Mr. Obama and an entourage that included his wife; her mother, Marian Robinson; his daughters, Malia and Sasha; friends; and even a few columnists boarded Air Force One at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington and landed at O'Hare International Airport just as the sun was setting over the city. The family then transferred to a helicopter for the flight into the city, skimming over backed-up freeways before sweeping past downtown skyscrapers to land at Daniel Burnham Park alongside Lake Michigan.
 All of Chicago was immediately abuzz. ''This is V-103, the president's radio station!'' a radio announcer voice blasted in a continuous loop on Chicago's old-school R&B station all weekend. 
 ''The Obamas are back home this weekend,'' the bartender at the Grill, a local eatery, confided to a couple of Valentine lovebirds stationed at the bar Friday night.
 For their Valentine's Day dinner, the Obamas went to Table 52, the chef Art Smith's upscale Southern-style restaurant, nestled in a 19th-century carriage house of the Biggs Mansion near Lake Shore Drive. 
 On Sunday morning, Mr. Obama played basketball for two hours with staff members and friends, including the really tall Reggie Love, the former Duke basketball player who is Mr. Obama's aide, and the even taller Marvin Nicholson, the White House trip director. Also on the basketball court were three Obama friends, Marty Nesbitt, Eric Whitaker and Alan King. They played four games, and Mr. Obama's team lost the championship game by a basket.
 On Sunday night, the Obamas went to Mr. Nesbitt's apartment to watch the N.B.A. All-Star Game. Malia and Sasha also visited with their friends over the long weekend, aides said.
 Obama aides said that getting out of Washington helped the president reconnect to the rest of the country. ''Part of his job is to stay in touch with the American people, and the White House can be a very suffocating place if you don't get out and talk to people,'' David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, told Fox News on Sunday. 
 Mr. Johndroe, the Bush aide, said that his former boss looked forward to his Crawford visits even though many of his White House worries followed him there. ''I suspect,'' Mr. Johndroe said, ''President Obama feels the same way about Chicago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama left Washington this weekend to go to Chicago, where he visited a friend's house on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); AIRPORTS (87%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); WRITERS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); HELICOPTERS (66%); AIR FORCES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); BASKETBALL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) NORTHEAST USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MAINE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



658 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, Heading Abroad, Takes Softer Tone on North Korea

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: ELMENDORF AIR FORCE BASE, Alaska 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, en route to Asia on her inaugural foreign trip, struck a conciliatory tone toward North Korea on Sunday, saying the United States would have a ''great openness'' to the country if it gave up its nuclear ambitions. 
 ''Our position is when they move forward in presenting a verifiable and complete dismantling and denuclearization, we have a great openness to working with them,'' Mrs. Clinton said on her plane heading to Tokyo, the first stop on a tour of Japan, Indonesia, South Korea and China.
 ''It's not only on the diplomatic front,'' she said, adding that the United States had a ''willingness to help the people of North Korea, not just in narrow ways with food and fuel but with energy assistance.''
 Mrs. Clinton's words did not represent a shift in United States policy, which is to offer the North Korean government economic aid and other incentives for abandoning its nuclear weapons program. But her tone was notably softer than previous pronouncements by American officials.
 At the same time, she said the North Korean government needed to be more forthcoming about ''the human tragedy'' of Japanese citizens who had been abducted by the North in the 1970s and 1980s.
 As Mrs. Clinton departed Washington, North Korea was casting a shadow over a voyage that sought to build solidarity between the United States and Asia on issues like the global economic crisis and climate change.
 North Korea has engaged in bellicose talk toward the South, and there were reports on Sunday that the North was preparing to test a long-range missile. 
 Mrs. Clinton played down suspicions, long held by some in the Bush administration, that North Korea has a clandestine program to produce highly enriched uranium. What is not in dispute, she said, is that North Korea has plutonium, which it is using to manufacture nuclear weapons.
 In China, Mrs. Clinton said, she would pursue a partnership on climate change. She suggested, though, that she did not intend to press Beijing to accept mandatory caps on carbon emissions, as President Obama supports.
 She also praised the Chinese government for adopting a ''robust'' economic stimulus program. While she said she would raise human-rights concerns in Beijing, she does not plan to do so prominently.
 Mrs. Clinton also said she would meet with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in two weeks for what she said she hoped would be a ''positive start.'' She said the administration had made no decisions on whether to scale back a missile defense system in Eastern Europe that has caused tension between Moscow and Washington.
 Mrs. Clinton's choice of Japan for her first stop is heavily symbolic and meant to reassure the Japanese that they remain America's central allies in Asia. Japan looms large in efforts to recover from the global economic crisis and has pledged up to $100 billion in aid to the International Monetary Fund to help countries facing credit shortages because of the crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); DISARMAMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (63%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (63%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



659 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Russian Musicians Yearn for Fans Abroad

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
After belting out ''The Party's Over,'' the Russian pop singer Valeriya let loose with a sound bite meant for music industry executives gathered at a recent conference in Cannes: ''Music has no borders!'' 
 For the likes of Mick Jagger or Madonna, that may be true. But only a small handful of Russian artists has ever managed to cross the musical frontier between their country -- where the market is dominated by domestic acts -- and the West. 
 Now Valeriya and several other Russian rockers are trying to change that by fine-tuning their repertoires for audiences abroad. Meanwhile, Russian record companies are wooing cautious Western partners to sell their music in Russia.
 Over all, music sales fell 21 percent in Russia in the first half of last year, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a trade group. The decline probably accelerated in the second half of the year as the economic crisis intensified. 
 The Russian music market has long been plagued by piracy. Most of the compact discs sold there are unauthorized copies, and digital sales are virtually nonexistent. Because of that, Russian artists rely largely on live performances to make money.
 To try to make money despite piracy, Western record companies are starting to experiment with a business model that has been the norm in Russia for years, with a single company handling artist management, merchandising and other functions in addition to releasing records and publishing music.
 And for Russian artists, selling their work outside of Russia has become a business imperative.
 ''I don't want to stay still,'' said Valeriya, whose real name is Alla Yurievna Perfilova, during a meeting with journalists in Cannes, France. ''I offer a very competitive repertoire, and the audience can feel something new.''
 Valeriya is not the first Russian pop star to break out of Russia. But she is an established, 40-year-old singer who has been described as a Russian version of Madonna. So she and her handlers are thinking big, planning a multipronged assault on the British and American markets.
 By the end of the month her label, Nox Music -- run by her third husband, Josef Prigozhin -- plans to send copies of a single, ''Wild,'' to 300 clubs and D.J.'s in the United States, to test the audience for her music. 
 Vladimir Voronkov, who manages Nox outside Russia, said he wanted Valeriya to do an American tour, get on talks shows and even publish a translated version of her autobiography.
 ''The more buttons you press, the more results you might get,'' he said. ''No stone unturned.''
 Easier said than done. Despite a publicity blitz that landed Valeriya on the covers of magazines and the features pages of Sunday newspapers in Britain, Nox Music is still scrambling to find a distributor for the British release of her newest record, ''Out of Control.'' 
 Valeriya is not the only Russian artist seeking to make it in Britain. A Moscow D.J., Leonid Rudenko, plans to release a dance track, ''Everybody,'' in Britain on Monday via Ministry of Sound, an independent record label.
 Another Russian hopeful is Sergey Lazarev, a former boy-band star who has embarked on a solo career as, yes, Sergey. His Russian label, Style Records, recently reached an agreement with a British management company, 2 Point 9.
 ''It's really, really difficult to break an artist, even a British artist, in the U.K.,'' said Billy Grant, managing director of 2 Point 9. ''The idea is to work toward creating a record that could be released in further territories around the world.''
 Russian artists have generally worked with independent labels because major Western music companies remain wary about doing business in Russia.
 Without the backing of a major record label, Russian artists will have a hard time making it big in the West, said Artyom Troitsky, a Russian music critic and producer. He said the prospects for Valeriya in the West were ''hopeless.''
 Mr. Troitsky said that in a world awash with slickly produced but largely derivative pop music, Russian acts should stand out. ''It would be funny,'' he said, ''if the country that was famous for Tchaikovsky would become known only for producing third-rate Madonnas or second-rate Robbie Williamses.''
 Others are more optimistic.
 ''We have the feeling that the international community is ready for an artist from Russia,'' said Ilya Buts, the editorial director of the Russian edition of Billboard magazine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Valeriya, called the Russian Madonna, has international plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC GAILLARD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (94%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); MUSIC (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RETAIL SALES (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); WRITERS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

PERSON: MADONNA (92%); MICK JAGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



660 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: White House Wants to Revise Compensation Part of Stimulus

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Facing a stricter approach to limiting executive bonuses than it had favored, the Obama administration wants to revise that part of the stimulus package even after it becomes law, White House officials said Sunday. 
 President Obama plans to sign the $787 billion stimulus bill on Tuesday, but his administration will seek changes in the government's approach to executive compensation, a senior Obama adviser, David Axelrod, said.
 ''We all have the same goal,'' Mr. Axelrod said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''And we want to do something that's workable, and we'll work with them to get to that point.''
 Mr. Obama's press secretary, Robert Gibbs, appearing on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS, also said the administration would seek to ''strike the right balance'' on compensation. Asked if Mr. Obama would enforce the bill and was satisfied with it, Mr. Gibbs replied, ''We will sign this bill into law on Tuesday.''
 Under the administration's proposal, compensation restrictions would apply only to banks that received ''exceptional assistance'' from the government. Top executives could be paid no more than $500,000, with bonuses or other compensation coming as stock that could be claimed only after the federal money had been paid back.
 The bill passed by Congress set executive bonus limits on all banks that receive bailout money. The amount of assistance will determine the number of executives affected, though top executives will be prohibited from getting bonuses or incentives except as restricted stock that vests only after bailout funds are repaid.
 Two top lawmakers on committees that oversee financial regulations appeared to dismiss the possibility that the administration would not follow the compensation requirements.
 ''Mr. Gibbs may not like it, but it is going to be enforced,'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said on CBS. ''This is not an option. This is not, frankly, the Bush administration, where they're going to issue a signing statement and refuse to enforce it.''
 Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, said the compensation provisions were necessary to protect taxpayer money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); BANK FAILURES (71%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID AXELROD (73%); RICHARD SHELBY (58%); BARNEY FRANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



661 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy Plunges At an Annual Rate of 12.7%

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's economy, the world's second largest, is deteriorating at its worst pace since the oil crisis of the 1970s, hurt by shrinking exports and anemic spending at home.
 The country's real gross domestic product shrank at an annual rate of 12.7 percent from October to December after contracting for two previous quarters, the government said Monday. When compared with the third quarter of 2008, Japan's economy receded 3.3 percent.
 The fourth-quarter results were Japan's worst quarterly drop since its economy contracted at an annual pace of 13.1 percent in the first three months of 1974. Japan's export-driven economy is particularly vulnerable to the current downturn. 
 ''There's no question that this is the worst recession in the postwar period,'' Japan's economic minister, Kaoru Yosano, said after the results were released.
 The dismal figures also place Japan firmly among the worst-hit in the global crisis, dwarfing economic declines in the United States and Europe.
 The economy of the United States declined at a 3.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter and 1 percent when compared with the previous quarter.
 European Union data offices do not use annualized numbers, but the economy of the 16 countries sharing the euro currency declined by 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter when compared with the previous quarter.
 Though Japan first appeared relatively unscathed, its economy has been hurt in recent months by declining overseas demand and a stronger yen.
 Since then, companies like the Sony Corporation have rushed to cut jobs, helping to drive up Japan's unemployment rate to 4.4 percent in December, from 3.9 percent in November.
 Exports slumped as consumers abroad bought fewer Japanese cars and electronics. Capital outlays were hurt as companies cut investment. Consumer spending also stalled as households reined in spending amid huge layoffs.
 ''At one time, it looked like Japan escaped the brunt of the financial crisis. Now we see Japan's most damaged because it's so dependent on trade, which is stalling,'' said Hideo Kumano, chief economist for the Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute. ''This shows how feeble Japan's economic fundamentals were in the first place.''
 Consumer spending in Japan was weak before the effects of the financial crisis took hold, he said.
 The news comes as the Group of 7 finance ministers and central bankers acknowledged at a meeting this weekend that they must confront a ''severe'' economic downturn that will persist for most of 2009.
 Japanese officials have hinted that they would consider drafting a fresh fiscal stimulus package to stem the downturn. Prime Minister Taro Aso has promised spending worth almost 50 trillion yen ($545 billion) in two packages. But political bickering in Parliament has slowed progress.
 More worryingly, Japan's banks are also showing weakness, raising questions over the country's role so far as a financial safe haven. At issue are the vast holdings on Japanese banks' balance sheets, which have been battered amid the recent market sell-off, forcing many to raise capital in recent weeks.
 ''The worsening economy also means Japan's banks are going to start seeing more loan defaults,'' said Tatsuo Ichikawa, a Tokyo-based strategist at the Royal Bank of Scotland. ''Japan, a source of stability and liquidity at the onset of the crisis, is falling very fast,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kaoru Yosano (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RANKINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); EURO (71%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (66%); DAI-ICHI LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (66%); SNE (NYSE) (66%); 6758 (TSE) (66%); 8750 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: KAORU YOSANO (74%); TARO ASO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



662 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: North Korea to Press Ahead With Missile Launch

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL 

 BODY:
North Korea suggested on Monday that it will press ahead with test-launching what its neighbors believe is a ballistic missile capable of reaching as far as Alaska.
 ''One will come to know later what will be launched,'' the North's state-run news agency, KCNA, said, commenting on recent news reports in the region that the isolated country has been readying its longest-range Taepodong-2 missile for a test launch from a base on its east coast. 
 North Korea made the statement on the 67th birthday of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, who is widely praised at home for spearheading the country's ''space development,'' a term the nation used when it tested a shorter-range Taepodong-1 missile in 1998.
 North Korea's missile program has long unsettled neighbors because of the possibility that it might place nuclear warheads atop them.
 Increased activities at the North's Musudan-ri missile base -- where North Korean engineers have reportedly been putting together a 32-meter-long Taepodong-2 missile for a test -- came as U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was on her way to Asia to start her first overseas visit since taking office.
 Analysts and government officials in the region have speculated that North Korea is preparing a missile test in the coming weeks to help make it a top foreign policy issue for U.S. President Barack Obama.
 With its economy in shambles and isolated from most of the world, North Korea has often used its military threats to extract economic aid and diplomatic benefits from other countries.
 On Friday, KCNA insisted that it had the right to pursue a ''peaceful'' space program and accused ''hostile forces'' in the region of spreading ''the rumor'' about a long-distance missile launch.
 Kim Jong Il, who was said to have suffered a stroke around last August, strives to live up to his main political promise to the country's impoverished 22 million people: turning North Korea into a ''strong and great nation'' by 2012, a year widely seen as the time when Kim may designate his heir, possibly from among his three sons.
 Before her trip, Mrs. Clinton said that the United States was willing to normalize ties with North Korea and help rebuild its economy if it abandons its nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); STROKES (50%); DISARMAMENT (50%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



663 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Saving Federal Arts Funds: Selling Culture as an Economic Force

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
One would be hard pressed to argue that a call from Robert Redford to the speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, helped salvage money for the arts in the economic-stimulus bill last week. 
 But it certainly didn't hurt as arts-friendly members of the House and Senate struggled to preserve $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts in the final version of the recovery package, approved by both houses on Friday.
 There was a whiplash quality to the action surrounding the arts money. As the week wore on, things weren't looking good. Although a House version of the bill had included the $50 million, the Senate version approved no arts money at all. The Senate even voted 73 to 24 on Feb. 6 for an amendment ruling out stimulus money for museums, arts centers and theaters. And some conservative Republicans had denounced the arts as bonbons for a leftist elite with no place in an emergency stimulus bill.
 The challenge for culture boosters in Congress was to convince a House-Senate conference committee that the arts provide jobs as other industries do, while also encouraging tourism and spending in general. 
 ''We had the facts on our side,'' said Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a New York Democrat who is co-chairwoman of the Congressional Arts Caucus. ''If we're trying to stimulate the economy, and get money into the Treasury, nothing does that better than art.''
 In his conversation last week with Ms. Pelosi, a California Democrat, Mr. Redford said, he drew on his film experience to argue for the arts as an economic engine. ''Ticket takers or electricians or actors -- all the people connected with the arts are at risk just like everybody else is,'' he said in an interview. He said he also reminded Ms. Pelosi that his Sundance Film Festival brings more than $60 million to Park City, Utah, each year.
 Among the legislators pushing the conference committee to include the arts money were Ms. Pelosi; Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington, chairman of the House Interior Appropriations and the Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the arts endowment; Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and a member of the conference committee; and Ms. Slaughter, who as chairwoman of the Rules Committee has clout over amendments.
 Mr. Dicks said Ms. Slaughter was a crucial gatekeeper. ''She gets a big 'atta boy,' '' he said. ''She stopped a bad thing from happening.''
 ''We all worked it together,'' he added, ''pointing out how much job creation occurs with these arts organizations all over the country. We worked kind of behind the scenes.''
 As the details of the final bill were being hammered out, tens of thousands of arts advocates around the country were calling and e-mailing legislators. Arts groups also organized an advertising blitz arguing that culture contributes 6 million jobs and $30 billion in tax revenue and $166 billion in annual economic impact.
 The tide turned. In addition to preserving the $50 million allocation, the final bill eliminated part of the Senate amendment that would have excluded museums, theaters and arts centers from any recovery money. 
 ''It's a huge victory for the arts in America,'' said Robert L. Lynch, the president of Americans for the Arts, a lobbying group. ''It's a signal that maybe there is after all more understanding of the value of creativity in the 21st-century economy.''
 That Senate amendment, proposed by Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, had grouped museums, theaters and arts centers with implied frivolities like casinos and golf courses. 
 Adding to arts groups' consternation, the amendment had gained the vote of Senate Democrats like Charles E. Schumer of New York and Dianne Feinstein of California, who usually support cultural initiatives. 
 Arts groups feared that they had been abandoned by their Washington friends, and that they would be shut out of the recovery entirely. Asked about her vote after the amendment's passage on Feb. 6, Ms. Feinstein said through a spokesman that she was still ''a strong supporter of the arts'' but felt that the stimulus bill ''should invest in critical national infrastructure.'' 
 Senator Schumer said he had been unaware that the amendment ruled out money for museums and theaters.
 (In the final language approved on Friday, casinos and golf courses remain ineligible for stimulus funds, as are zoos, aquariums and swimming pools.) 
 The extra $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts is a significant boost for the agency, whose annual budget, without the additional money, was $145 million. The bill calls for 40 percent of the new money to be distributed by formula to state arts agencies and regional arts organizations. The remaining 60 percent will be set aside for individual arts projects competing for Endowment grants. 
 President Obama has yet to appoint a successor to Dana Gioia, who served as the Endowment's chairman until last month. But Patrice Walker Powell, the Endowment's deputy chairwoman for states, regions and local arts agencies, who has been serving as interim chairwoman since Feb. 2, praised Congress for entrusting the stimulus money to her agency. 
 ''It's a great opportunity for the cultural work force to be dignified as part of the American work force,'' she said in an interview. 
 Of course $50 million is too meager a sum to rescue major arts groups, even as flailing institutions like the Detroit Institute of Arts reel from budget cuts. Arts executives with worried constituent groups are in many cases philosophical and say they expect the stimulus money to be spread widely.
 ''I hope the maximum amount of the $50 million finds its way into the pockets of artists and those who support them,'' said Reynold Levy, president of Lincoln Center. ''An employed dancer is as important as an employed construction worker. His or her family has many needs, owns a home, buys a car and makes an impact on the economy.''
 This is the sort of argument many arts groups say they failed to make strongly enough in the weeks leading up to the first House and Senate votes on the stimulus bill. In debates on the measure some legislators dismissed the arts as a highbrow, left-wing luxury unworthy of scarce taxpayer dollars. Such arguments evoked the ideological battles of the 1990s, when some politicians denounced certain projects financed by the Endowment as un-American.
 ''I just think putting people to work is more important than putting more art on the wall of some New York City gallery frequented by the elite art community,'' Representative Jack Kingston, Republican of Georgia, was quoted as saying in the Congressional Quarterly's online publication last month. He described arts as ''the favorite of the left.'' ''Call me a sucker for the working man,'' he said. (Americans for the Arts later challenged Mr. Kingston's assertions, saying that as of last year his own Georgia congressional district was home to 778 arts-related businesses employing 2,663 people.)
 Kate D. Levin, New York City's cultural affairs commissioner, said she was perturbed by the nature of the debate. ''There were serious disconnects between the reality and the perception of arts and culture,'' she said.
 ''One of the profound things about culture is the amount of indirect employment and spending it generates,'' she said. ''Even the smallest organization can record the fact that the parking lot down the street and the dry cleaner around the corner and the restaurant nearby all do better when the organization is functioning.'' 
 In arguing for the $50 million in arts money on the House floor on Friday, Mr. Obey made similar points. Arts workers, he said, have 12.5 percent unemployment: ''Are you suggesting that somehow if you work in that field, it isn't real when you lose your job, your mortgage or your health insurance? We're trying to treat people who work in the arts the same way as anybody else.'' 
 The $50 million will only go so far, but cultural groups heralded the survival of the Endowment money as a big step forward. 
 ''It's a tremendous validation of the role of artists as an economic and a spiritual force,'' said Ed Harsh, president of Meet the Composer, a nonprofit group devoted to the creation of new musical work in America. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Redford (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN BEDDER/GETTY IMAGES)
 Nancy Pelosi (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EPA)(C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FILM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); FESTIVALS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (57%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (89%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (73%); DAVE OBEY (58%); NORMAN D DICKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



664 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (13, 49) ANTIQUES ROADSHOW The series heads to the heartland, specifically Wichita, Kan., where Mark L. Walberg, the host, and the appraiser Nicholas Lowry take in vintage air travel posters at the Kansas Aviation Museum. At the Century II Performing Arts & Convention Center, a 1949 payroll check, above, made out to a teenage Mickey Mantle is valued at $30,000 to $50,000.
 10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAY Keke Palmer talks about the inauguration of President Obama and meeting the first daughters. 
 11 A.M. (NBC) THE MARTHA STEWART SHOW Ms. Stewart and Bill Clinton, right, celebrate Presidents' Day. 
 8 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May take three newfangled muscle cars on a road trip from San Francisco to Utah. Back in England Mr. Clarkson speeds around the test track in a Fiat 500 Abarth, and the singer Will Young talks economy as this episode's ''Star in a Reasonably Priced Car.''
 8 P.M. (HBO) RIGHT AMERICA: FEELING WRONGED -- SOME VOICES FROM THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL Last year Alexandra Pelosi followed the John McCain campaign to 28 states and interviewed those who did not want Barack Obama to be their president. This documentary listens as conservative Americans discuss gun control, abortion rights, religion and gay marriage, and explain why they feel underrepresented by the mainstream media.
 8 P.M. (MyNetworkTV) I.S.U. GRAND PRIX OF FIGURE SKATING FINAL Mirai Nagasu, Evan Lysacek and Johnny Weir of the United States glide for gold in Seoul, South Korea.
 8 P.M. (NBC) CHUCK Subtitle this one ''Disturbia'': Jenny McCarthy and Andy Richter play the neighbors next door when Chuck (Zachary Levi) and Sarah (Yvonne Strahovski) are forced to pose as a happily married couple living in the suburbs.
 8 P.M. (Ovation) WALDBUHNE 2008: RHYTHMS OF THE NIGHTGustavo Dudamel makes his debut with the Berlin Philharmonic at this outdoor amphitheater.
 8 P.M. (TLC) LITTLE PEOPLE, BIG WORLD In this fifth-season spring premiere Matt Roloff travels with an orthopedic surgeon to Iraq to perform leg-straightening operations on two of the dwarf children he met on his first trip. 
 9 P.M. (History) STEALING LINCOLN'S BODY In 1876, 11 years after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, a group of Chicago counterfeiters plotted to steal his body and hold it for ransom in exchange for $200,000 and the release of their master engraver from prison. The strange tale is retold here.
 9 P.M. (NBC) HEROES Nathan (Adrian Pasdar) finds his plans going awry when Homeland Security begins an investigation under orders from the president. Sylar (Zachary Quinto) and Luke (Dan Byrd) go in search of Sylar's father while Nathan's agents hunt them down. And Claire (Hayden Panettiere) tries to protect a young man with abilities (Justin Baldoni) from being captured by H.R.G. (Jack Coleman).
 9 P.M. (TNT) THE CLOSER Brenda (Kyra Sedgwick) prepares for her wedding with her parents (Frances Sternhagen and Barry Corbin), while Fritz's supposedly psychic sister (Amy Sedaris, right) uses her powers to help prevent a murder.
 9:30 P.M. (CBS) WORST WEEK In this season finale Sam (Kyle Bornheimer) winds up at the wrong hospital after Mel (Erinn Hayes) calls to say she has gone into labor.
 10 P.M. (13, 49) SIMON SCHAMA'S ROUGH CROSSINGS Mr. Schama examines a little-known chapter in the history of slavery in which thousands of African-Americans fought for the British during the American Revolution in exchange for a promise of freedom -- only to end up under the control of white colonists in Sierra Leone. 
 10 P.M. (Discovery) MAN VS. WILD: ROMANIA Bear Grylls ventures into Dracula country. In the forest of Transylvania he traverses steep ravines and cavernous underground water systems and comes face to face with a large brown bear.
 10 P.M. (NBC) MEDIUMPatricia Arquette makes her directorial debut with this episode, in which some unusual behavior by her character, Allison, after she visits a crime scene, puts her family at risk and threatens the business of her husband, Joe (Jake Weber). KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); MARRIAGE (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); GUN CONTROL (65%); ABORTION (65%); WINTER SPORTS (64%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); ICE SKATING (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RACHAEL RAY (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); MARTHA STEWART (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) KANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



665 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Study Effectiveness Of Treatments

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The $787 billion economic stimulus bill approved by Congress will, for the first time, provide substantial amounts of money for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. 
 Under the legislation, researchers will receive $1.1 billion to compare drugs, medical devices, surgery and other ways of treating specific conditions. The bill creates a council of up to 15 federal employees to coordinate the research and to advise President Obama and Congress on how to spend the money.
 The program responds to a growing concern that doctors have little or no solid evidence of the value of many treatments. Supporters of the research hope it will eventually save money by discouraging the use of costly, ineffective treatments. 
 The soaring cost of health care is widely seen as a problem for the economy. Spending on health care totaled $2.2 trillion, or 16 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, in 2007, and the Congressional Budget Office estimates that, without any changes in federal law, it will rise to 25 percent of the G.D.P. in 2025. 
 Dr. Elliott S. Fisher of Dartmouth Medical School said the federal effort would help researchers try to answer questions like these: 
 Is it better to treat severe neck pain with surgery or a combination of physical therapy, exercise and medications? What is the best combination of ''talk therapy'' and prescription drugs to treat mild depression? 
 How do drugs and ''watchful waiting'' compare with surgery as a treatment for leg pain that results from blockage of the arteries in the lower legs? Is it better to treat chronic heart failure by medications alone or by drugs and home monitoring of a patient's blood pressure and weight?
 For nearly a decade, economists and health policy experts have been debating the merits of research that directly tackles such questions. Britain, France and other countries have bodies that assess health technologies and compare the effectiveness, and sometimes the cost, of different treatments.
 Hillary Rodham Clinton, as a senator, was an early champion of ''comparative effectiveness research.'' Mr. Obama, who is expected to sign the stimulus bill Tuesday, endorsed the idea in his campaign for the White House. 
 As Congress translated the idea into legislation, it became a lightning rod for pharmaceutical and medical-device lobbyists, who fear the findings will be used by insurers or the government to deny coverage for more expensive treatments and, thus, to ration care. 
 In addition, Republican lawmakers and conservative commentators complained that the legislation would allow the federal government to intrude in a person's health care by enforcing clinical guidelines and treatment protocols.
 The money will be immediately available to the Health and Human Services Department but can be spent over several years. Some money will be used for systematic reviews of published scientific studies, and some will be used for clinical trials making head-to-head comparisons of different treatments.
 For many years, the government has regulated drugs and devices and supported biomedical research, but the goal was usually to establish if a particular treatment was safe and effective, not if it was better than the alternatives.
 Consumer groups, labor unions, large employers and pharmacy benefit managers supported the new initiative, saying it would fill gaps in the evidence available to doctors and patients.
 ''The new research will eventually save money and lives,'' said Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California. 
 The United States spends more than $2 trillion a year on health care, but ''we have little information about which treatments work best for which patients,'' said Mr. Stark, who is the chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health.
 In the absence of information on what works, Mr. Stark said, patients are put at risk, and billions of dollars are spent each year on ineffective or unnecessary treatments.
 Steven D. Findlay, a health policy analyst at Consumers Union, said the action by Congress was ''a terrific step on the road to improving the quality of care and making it more efficient.''
 But critics say the legislation could put the government in the middle of the doctor-patient relationship. 
 Bureaucrats ''will monitor treatments to make sure your doctor is doing what the federal government deems appropriate and cost-effective,'' Betsy McCaughey, a former lieutenant governor of New York, wrote on Bloomberg.com. Rush Limbaugh broadcast the charges to millions who listen to his radio talk show.
 Lawmakers and lobbyists agree that researchers should compare the clinical merits of different treatments. Whether they should also consider cost is hotly debated.
 Representative Charles Boustany Jr., a Louisiana Republican who is a heart surgeon, said he worried that ''federal bureaucrats will misuse this research to ration care, to deny life-saving treatments to seniors and disabled people.''
 The House Appropriations Committee inadvertently stoked such concerns in a report accompanying its version of the economic recovery bill. It said that research comparing different treatments could ''yield significant payoffs'' because less effective, more expensive treatments ''will no longer be prescribed.''
 A similar proposal was included in a recent book by Tom Daschle, who had been Mr. Obama's nominee for health secretary, and Jeanne M. Lambrew, who is the deputy director of the Office of Health Reform in the Obama White House.
 Women and members of minority groups expressed concern about that approach. Drugs and other treatments can affect different patients in different ways, they said, but researchers often overlook the differences because their studies do not include enough women, blacks or Hispanics.
 ''Some drugs appear to be more effective in women than in men, while other medicines are more likely to cause serious complications in women,'' said Phyllis E. Greenberger, the president of the Society for Women's Health Research. ''It's important to look for these sex-based differences.''
 In a letter to House leaders, the Congressional Black Caucus said, ''We are concerned that comparative effectiveness research will be based on broad population averages that ignore the differences between patients.''
 House and Senate negotiators tried to address these concerns. The final bill says that the research financed by the federal government shall include women and members of minority groups.
 Moreover, in a report filed with the bill, the negotiators said they did not intend for the research money to be used to ''mandate coverage, reimbursement or other policies for any public or private payer.''
 Congress did not say exactly how the findings should be used. Private insurers can use the data in deciding whether to cover new drugs and medical procedures, but it is unclear how Medicare will use the information.
 Under existing law, Medicare generally covers any treatment that is ''reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury,'' and the agency does not have clear legal authority to take costs into account when deciding whether to cover a particular treatment.
 Andrew Witty, the chief executive of the pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline, said European officials often considered the costs as well as the clinical benefits of new drugs -- with mixed results.
 ''Comparative effectiveness is a useful tool in the tool kit, but it's not the answer to anything,'' Mr. Witty said in an interview. ''Other countries have fallen in love with the concept, then spent years figuring out how on earth to make it work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (67%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (60%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



666 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Economists Try Target Practice in a Fun-House Mirror

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
''Everybody does it,'' is what high school students say when caught committing an offense. And now that the economy has plummeted, it's the defense offered by lenders, borrowers, brokers, investors, credit agencies, government regulators and elected officials alike. 
 Everybody was doing it, and nobody wanted to stop it. As Michael Francis, a former Wall Street investment banker puts it in ''House of Cards,'' a documentary on CNBC on Monday, ''No, there was never a time where somebody said: 'Hey, hold on. Let's not do this.' '' 
 Collateralized debt obligations are so complicated that even the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan says he finds them bewildering. But now, in hindsight, it's just as difficult to fathom the individual gambles and collective folly that brought down Wall Street and cost millions of Americans their homes, jobs and retirement savings. And that's why ''House of Cards'' and ''Inside the Meltdown,'' a ''Frontline'' documentary on most PBS stations on Tuesday, are so gripping. 
 So much is still at stake that it's hard to remember what happened even a few months ago when the Bush administration and Congress gave Wall Street its first bailout. 
 ''Inside the Meltdown'' is a post-traumatic-stress flashback: a searing look at how the treasury secretary at the time, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and others acted -- and failed to act -- in those fraught days in September when the world's entire economic system seemed on the brink of evaporating. ''Frontline'' concludes that by refusing to rescue Lehman Brothers, Mr. Paulson kicked off the worldwide credit freeze and deepened the recession. 
 CNBC's inquiry weaves together Wall Street bankers, first-time homeowners, mortgage brokers and even the mayor of a fishing town in Norway. Blame is spread far and wide, with no one culprit singled out -- though Mr. Greenspan, unburdened by remorse and blithely philosophical about the inevitability of it all, indicts himself. Of the two programs this one is broader, more comprehensive and ultimately more compelling. 
 Oddly enough the PBS offering is showier and more melodramatic, embellished with the kind of foreboding sound effects and stark black-and-white photographs that are a specialty of Sept. 11 films or accounts on History of the Cuban Missile Crisis. ''Frontline'' builds a persuasive case against Mr. Paulson but relies for the most part on secondary sources to do so: academics and reporters. 
 A shot of black limousines gliding up to Capitol Hill sets the stage for one of the most dramatic moments in the narrative, the Sept. 18 meeting in which Mr. Paulson warned Congressional leaders that without a huge bailout, the financial system would melt down. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, recalls the meeting: ''There was literally a pause in that room where the oxygen left.'' 
 Mr. Dodd and Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, are the only members of Congress interviewed in the piece, which is a weakness. Many voters hold Republicans and Democrats equally responsible for oversight failures. ''Frontline'' holds these politicians up as reliable, unbiased witnesses, but some viewers may feel they don't deserve that trust. 
 ''Inside the Meltdown'' is illustrated with sweeping aerial shots of Lower Manhattan and the skyscrapers of Wall Street. CNBC's David Faber, the reporter behind ''House of Cards,'' takes his camera onto a helicopter with a Southern California public health inspector to look down at a patchwork of slimy green backyard swimming pools left to fester after the houses were foreclosed.
 ''This is the pulse of the subprime industry, the nerve center,'' says Lou Pacific, a former officer at one of the country's busiest loan companies, Quick Loan Funding. ''This is where it all started and this is where it all ended.'' (Daniel Sadek, the founder of Quick Loan Funding, which is now defunct, was pocketing $5 million a month and spending it on mansions, antique sports cars, Las Vegas junkets and a car race movie, ''Redline.'') 
 Almost like the Spirit of Christmas Past, Mr. Faber visits homeowners, lenders, bankers and Wall Street dealmakers to collect a Dickensian cast of characters who explain how they were sucked into an ''affluenza'' bubble that seemed unbreakable. The gullible range from Ira Wagner, formerly a senior managing director at Bear Stearns, to pizza delivery men who became loan officers, that is, salesmen, with no training, regulation or even dim understanding of what Wall Street was doing with the mortgages they handed out like supermarket coupons.
 Like Diogenes, Mr. Faber hunts for a person who saw the crash coming and tried to do something about it. He does, but the whistle-blower is not a Wall Street banker, an S.E.C. investigator or member of Congress: it's Kyle Bass, a Texas hedge fund manager who looked closely inside the subprime market and decided to bet against it. (His fund went up 600 percent in 18 months.) 
 The CNBC documentary closely follows Mr. Bass's line of thought, but for perhaps obvious reasons it does not cite a letter of warning he wrote to investors in July 2007. ''Consequently, when I hear people like Kudlow on CNBC tell their viewers that the subprime problem is 'contained,' I can hardly bear to watch,'' Mr. Bass wrote, referring to Larry Kudlow, host of CNBC's ''Kudlow & Company.'' 
 So many people didn't see it coming that it's hard to know where to assign blame. ''Inside the Meltdown'' and ''House of Cards'' reveal why even the most culpable don't blame themselves: everybody did it. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with the TV Watch column, about documentaries on the financial crisis, misstated the surname of the journalist who reported one of those films, ''House of Cards,'' on CNBC. As the column correctly noted, he is David Faber, not Farber.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Henry M. Paulson Jr. waiting to address the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington last year, when he was President Bush's secretary of the Treasury.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY -- CORBIS)(C1)
 David Farber, left, with Alan Greenspan, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, on the CNBC program ''House of Cards.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CNBC)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (65%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (79%)

TITLE: Inside the Meltdown (TV Program); House of Cards (TV Program); Inside the Meltdown (TV Program); House of Cards (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



667 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Facing A Choice On Copters

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has slammed high-flying executives traveling in cushy jets at a time of economic turmoil. But soon he will have to decide whether to proceed with some of the priciest aircraft in the world -- a new fleet of 28 Marine One helicopters that will each cost more than the last Air Force One.
 A six-year-old project to build state-of-the-art presidential helicopters has bogged down in a contracting quagmire that will challenge Mr. Obama's desire to rein in military contracting expenses. The price tag has nearly doubled, production has fallen years behind schedule and much of the program has been frozen until the new administration figures out what to do about it.
 The choice confronting Mr. Obama encapsulates the tension between two imperatives of his nascent presidency, the need to meet the continuing threats of an age of terrorism and the demand for austerity in a period of economic hardship. 
 Equipped to deflect missile attacks and capable of waging war from the air, the new VH-71 helicopters would fly farther, faster and more safely than the current decades-old craft. But each improvement pushes up the cost. The program's original $6.1 billion contract has ballooned to $11.2 billion, and the Pentagon notified Congress last month that it was so far over budget that the law required a review. The Obama administration now must determine if the project is essential to national security and if there are alternatives that would cost less.
 For Mr. Obama, the program is one more inheritance from the Bush administration, which began the effort after the Sept. 11 attacks generated concern about whether presidential helicopters from the 1970s were up to the challenge of terrorist threats. President George W. Bush spent Sept. 11 aboard Air Force One, reinforcing the need for up-to-date communications and security for a president at all times.
 ''If the office of the presidency is vulnerable, then the country is vulnerable,'' said Representative Joe Sestak of Pennsylvania, a Democrat and a retired Navy vice admiral. ''However, the nation is crying for accountability, from Wall Street to Congress to Iraq.''
 Asked about it in last year's campaign, Mr. Obama promised to ''take a close look'' at the program, adding that it was ''a lot of money, even in Washington.'' The White House had no comment last week, but Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, said Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates was rethinking the VH-71 and other projects that were ''having execution problems.'' 
 ''We're prepared to make some hard choices,'' Mr. Morrell said.
 At stake is the future of the iconic white-topped helicopters that take off from the South Lawn of the White House. Those helicopters have become a symbol of presidential power, etched in the public mind, perhaps most indelibly on the day President Richard M. Nixon resigned in 1974 and flashed a double-V salute before retreating aboard one of the choppers to begin his long exile.
 Presidents have had helicopters at their disposal since 1957, when Dwight D. Eisenhower grew irritated at how long it took in a crisis to get from a New England vacation to an airport. The current fleet of 19 aircraft includes 11 Sikorsky VH-3D Sea Kings and 8 VH-60N Black Hawks, some of which have been flying presidents for up to 35 years.
 When a president is aboard one of the helicopters it goes by the radio call sign Marine One. The helicopters typically ferry a president from the White House to Andrews Air Force Base or Camp David, usually accompanied by one or two helicopters carrying staff members and serving as decoys. Helicopters are also sometimes airlifted to the president's stops around the world for shorter-range flights.
 Andrew H. Card Jr., Mr. Bush's White House chief of staff, grew exasperated in 2002 by helicopter mechanical problems and instigated the development of an ultramodern replacement. The Pentagon awarded a contract in 2005 to Lockheed Martin, even though it had never built helicopters, reasoning that a three-engine model produced by its British-Italian partner, called the EH-101, provided a useful foundation. 
 In doing so, the Pentagon bypassed Sikorsky Aircraft, the contractor since the Eisenhower era. Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Democrat from Connecticut, where Sikorsky is based, said she believed the Bush administration wanted to reward Britain and Italy for support in Iraq. ''I think this was a way of saying, 'We understand what you did for us; now we're trying to do something for you,' '' she said.
 The Bush administration denied that. But as the White House tried to effectively replicate Air Force One in helicopter form, it soon became clear that modifying the EH-101 was much more complicated than anticipated. The new armored 64-foot-long presidential helicopter had to carry 14 passengers and thousands of pounds of secure communications equipment and be able to jam seeking devices, fend off missiles and resist some of the electromagnetic effects of a nuclear blast. 
 The VH-71 project was divided into two increments, a quick first batch of five new helicopters with the same or better equipment as the current fleet, to be followed by 23 much more sophisticated craft that would ultimately take over flying the president, the vice president and the defense secretary, among others. 
 Lockheed has made progress on the first increment, having built four test models and three of the helicopters that will eventually be used. Those aircraft are supposed to be delivered by the end of 2010. But the Pentagon issued a stop-work order at the end of 2007 on the second increment as costs continued to rocket upward. Divided by 28 helicopters, the overall cost works out to $400 million per aircraft, roughly the same as the $410 million that the government paid in 1990 for the latest two Air Force One jetliners plus a hangar. 
 ''What you had here was a collision between the urgency of the White House and the rules of the Navy's acquisition,'' said Loren B. Thompson, the head of the Lexington Institute, a research organization that provides advice to Lockheed and other defense contractors. ''The White House wanted to field a helicopter much faster, and the Navy wanted to make sure it met all of the rules for a safe helicopter.
 ''It doesn't sound irreconcilable,'' he continued, ''but in the end, it caused a lot of cost growth.''
 The notice to Congress last month means the program must now be recertified by Mr. Gates to proceed. Ms. DeLauro and other members of the Connecticut delegation wrote the Navy last week asking it to consider reopening the bidding on the contract or turning part of it over to Sikorsky. Critics said Mr. Obama should pull the plug. ''The VH-71 is a waste of time, money and resources,'' said Lt. Col. Gene T. Boyer, a retired Army pilot who flew three presidents, including Nixon on the flight after his resignation. 
 Mr. Sestak said the project underscored the larger failure to accurately assess the cost of military projects in advance and urged Mr. Obama to tackle the problem. 
 ''If he puts the right accountability system in there -- not monitoring but enforcement -- then I think he can say rightly that the fleet is not for Mr. Obama, it is for the presidency,'' Mr. Sestak said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A six-year-old project to build state-of-the-art presidential helicopters has bogged down as contracting costs have soared. The current helicopters, like the one above carrying President Obama, are decades old. Dwight D. Eisenhower, far left, was the first president to have a helicopter, in 1957. At left, President Richard M. Nixon after resigning in 1974. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ODUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ROBERT M GATES (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); JOE SESTAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



668 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: States and Cities in Scramble for Stimulus Cash

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown, Michael Cooper, David M. Herszenhorn and Robert Pear.

 BODY:
Well before President Obama's stimulus package completed its tortuous path through Congress last week, state and local officials facing multimillion-dollar budget deficits, crumbling infrastructure and the prospect of massive reductions in services were already jockeying for the upper hand in deciding how the money should be spent.
 In Missouri, the Department of Transportation says that within 180 days of Mr. Obama's signing the legislation it is prepared to begin 34 transportation projects, costing $510 million and with the promise of 14,000 jobs.
 Echoing the thoughts of many political leaders across the country, Mayor Frank C. Ortis of Pembroke Pines, Fla., says simply, ''We have a wish list.'' And high on that list is money to repair aging sewer pipes in his city of 150,000. 
 When Mr. Obama signs the stimulus bill in Denver on Tuesday, it will release the biggest influx of federal dollars since the days of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program. But it also is expected to set off a multitude of political battles across the map: between governors and legislatures, state capitols and city halls, and even between neighboring municipalities.
 Because the effectiveness of any stimulus plan depends on the money being quickly spent, whether state and local governments can work through the rules and resolve any disputes will have a large impact on the success Mr. Obama's plan has in lifting the economy.
 Along with the money, there are complex rules to the sprawling, $787 billion federal plan that local politicians from governors to small-town mayors say they are only now beginning to grasp. And while states will have direct say on the use of much of the money -- especially on infrastructure projects like roads and bridges -- many spending decisions will still rest with officials hundreds of miles away in Washington. 
 ''Still, within the parameters given, there are a lot of policy choices and decisions states and localities have to make,'' said Scott D. Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers.
 Mr. Pattison said he has faced a barrage of questions in recent days from state budget officials on matters like how much discretion states will have, how the money will be transferred and how it must be tracked.
 ''This is all rather daunting,'' he said. ''It's a lot of money, and this is happening fast.''
 While it offers a patchwork of spending, the plan also provides battlegrounds for untold intrastate political fights.
 ''There is a tension that's happening between mayors and governors across the country now about who is going to receive what dollar amounts and for what purposes,'' said Mayor Michael D. Bissonnette of Chicopee, Mass., (population 54,000).
 Mr. Bissonnette said that even before the legislation made its way for an official vote in Congress last week, the political pressure was mounting in his region of Western Massachusetts. A council of mayors and other leaders there was outraged, he said, to learn that one state proposal would send millions to the Massachusetts Turnpike rather than what he considers a backlog of local road and bridge projects.
 Experts said the authorities in the states will probably have great discretion when it comes to billions of dollars for a broad range of state needs, including roads, bridges and other infrastructure projects. And states also will have considerable say in how billions are spent on Medicaid and for education. 
 The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials says the states have already identified 5,000 so-called ''ready to go'' transportation projects that could begin within a couple of months.
 ''We have far more in the way of projects that are ready to go than we have money to fund them,'' Kevin A. Elsenheimer, a Republican state representative and the house minority leader in Michigan, said. ''And it's naive to expect that politics will not be part of the process.''
 Officials expect that politics will not be limited to the lawmakers. Spending decisions on education could pit urban school districts against suburban or rural ones; how billions are dispensed for energy could come down to how advanced, or not, one state might be when it comes to wind energy development; and in many cases, it will come down to whether extra money will be spent to save the job of a firefighter or a teacher.
 Some state legislators said they feared that governors might try to dictate where the money goes, although in most states lawmakers would ultimately need to approve any spending. And clashes are already brewing over broad philosophical differences, particularly in state capitals with leadership divided along party lines.
 For example, some governors said they opposed the notion that stimulus money be used to plug budget deficits while others said that might be needed.
 Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina, chairman of the Republican Governors Association, is among the most ardent opponents of the stimulus package, describing it as pork-barrel spending and bad policy and vowing -- to the anger and chagrin of the Democratic members of the state's Congressional delegation -- not to take any of the money from Washington.
 ''For every job the bill creates, American taxpayers will spend $223,000,'' Mr. Sanford wrote in an opinion article in The State newspaper on Sunday. ''If we add the cost of this bill to the previous efforts of the federal government to deal with the financial crisis, the American taxpayer is on the hook for $9.7 trillion.'' 
 He went on to write, ''If the stimulus bill were a country, it would be the 15th-largest country in the world.''
 Governors and states hungering for the money will find themselves competing against other states. For example, states without enough eligible ''shovel-ready'' construction projects might have to pass up some money, which could then be granted to other states, said Michael Bird, a policy analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 There is also a flush of new money for Medicaid spending -- $87 billion -- but that, too, comes with strings attached.
 In Minnesota, for instance, Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican, is expected to revise his budget proposal, which had suggested reducing the number of residents eligible for state health care programs as a way to close a deficit. But such cuts now could jeopardize any extra financing for Medicaid under the stimulus plan, because the bill penalizes states that change their Medicaid eligibility to save money.
 Everywhere, state leaders are busily checking, searching through more than 1,000 pages in the federal bill, to see how their unique circumstances might be helped or harmed. 
 In some cases, the package has put some proposed state budgets for next year on hold until lawmakers can see how things play out, and several states plan to rewrite parts of their budgets to secure more federal dollars.
 In Arkansas and North Carolina, state authorities said they were concerned, though uncertain, whether they would receive less education money than other states. Neither state has a shortfall in its education budget, the officials said, and thus might not be eligible for as much education financing under the federal plan.
 ''We don't want to be penalized for not having a deficit,'' said Chrissy Pearson, a spokeswoman for Gov. Bev Perdue of North Carolina.
 In Rhode Island, Steven M. Costantino, a state representative, said he worried that the state might lose out when it came to alternative energy because it had fewer resources already dedicated to areas like wind power.
 ''I hope that states that are just starting to get involved in renewable energy would still receive money to expand their programs,'' Mr. Costantino said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Representative Joseph F. Wagner, left, Attorney General Thomas F. Reilly and Michael D. Bissonnette, mayor of Chicopee, Mass., who said local tensions had been mounting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE ROBACK/SPRINGFIELD REPUBLICAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



669 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Dressing With Temptation as Your Guide

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
To a degree, a designer's job is to tell people what they want before they know they want it. That used to be a fairly easy game. Remember the craze a few summers ago for flounced skirts? Now empty stores are testing everybody's instincts. What irresistible fashion will tempt women this year? The recession is also challenging young designers to be innovative -- and exposing those who are not.
When the model Ali Stephens came out at the start of Diane Von Furstenberg's show on Sunday dressed in a leopard-print turtleneck with stretch jeans in contrasting red leopard and a grandfatherly camel cardigan and a big metallic green tweed coat thrown over the whole thing, she was essentially selling the idea that she was a member of fashion nation. She was defending every girl's right to look as if she just blew backwards through a carwash of products. If there had been a subtitle printed on the sunset backdrop of Ms. Von Furstenberg's show in the Bryant Park tents, it would have said ''I love to shop.'' 
The collection was not so much about great fashion as it was about the things you want now. For instance, there was a plum wool dress, worn by Sessilee Lopez, that in photographs will probably look like nothing much, but it's a honey of a dress -- flattering, with a neckline that scrapes over the collarbone. Those stretch jeans and jacquard knit leggings, which were the basic underpinning of the layered collection, come in checks, tapestry patterns, black glazed cotton (like leather at a glance) and a print that suggests camouflage. They're the kind of easy wardrobe pieces that women are always looking for.
As if suspecting that some people this fall may buy only one or two things, Ms. Von Furstenberg and her team seemed to give each piece marquee value. So those big, friendly cardigans that New York girls treat as a second home were bigger, more exaggerated. Abstract black and white prints were blown out. Tweed sparkled with Lurex. A gray boucle wool swing coat came with a bushy hem and cuffs of pompom frizz.
So often in the last few years fashion has displayed a sense of entitlement rarely justified by the quality or variety of design. The thinking seemed to be: if we make it, they will buy it. Ms. Von Furstenberg has offered legitimate reasons to play the game.
Bold checks also turned up at Preen, the London label by Thea Bregazzi and Justin Thornton, who have shown in New York for several seasons. The look was especially appealing when the designers broke up the pattern with dense patches of black Mongolian lamb, or combined a dress in houndstooth silk with a black wool cutout coat.
Though it sounds nerdish to say that Ms. Bregazzi and Mr. Thornton treated the body as a canvas, their cutout dresses -- in solids as well as print collages -- nonetheless have a second-skin quality. The designers have refined their puzzle technique of cutouts and appliques on chiffon so that the results look effortless. They also translated the sexy look into adorable trompe l'oeil knits. They could do more on that front.
The recession has caught a generation of designers, in their 20s and early 30s, unprepared to be innovative. Their frame of reference is the free-spending consumer, not the suddenly cautious woman who is starting to think of her weekly manicure as a luxury. Looking at Jonathan Saunders's overwrought collection of suits and coats with caped shoulders, boleros seemingly over jackets, and stiff couture silks over more silks is to wonder if he considered something, well, less complicated. We last saw those hugger-mugger shoulders at Balenciaga and at Chanel couture, though with more finesse and purpose.
Mr. Saunders is a good designer. He knows how to make clothes, but that's all he's really telling us with this collection -- that he can cut a sleeve or a shoulder razor sharp, or create prints with digitalized or painterly effects. The clothes he presented Sunday don't travel well into the real world, at least not the world we seem to have. Even the palette of golden yellows, royal reds and black felt disconnected, like the palette of someone sitting in the dark looking at a computer screen.
What if someone were to take away his rich satins? What would Mr. Saunders do then? He would be forced to think of things that a woman might actually wear.
If you read a lot of depressing German literature or watch Ingmar Bergman films, you might find Carolina Herrera's floor-dragging gowns, black stockings and drab jewel tones strangely affecting. Then again, if that's not your particular turn of mind at 10 a.m. on a Monday, her collection will seem heavy weather indeed.
Day clothes were scarce, unless you wear embellished copper silk and lace. Texture marked the evening dresses -- a cloque silk, a floral organza that looked rough, as if washed or rewoven. A number of dresses had long trains, which, like the murky florals, recalled the romantic style of Olivier Theyskens. But it was a stale romance, with an awkwardness in the line -- too many tucks and folds -- that added bulk, and was uncharacteristic of Mrs. Herrera.
Maria Cornejo's collection seemed very much of a piece, with draped black shifts gathered with wide leather belts, cool mohair blanket coats, a shearling hoodie and her soft version of urban jodhpurs. A dolman-sleeve coat in chalk white wool had a lovely shape, with nips at the back, and crackled leather caught the trend for otherworldly textures and shine. This collection also had lots of desirable pieces, like a slim-fitting blue mohair jacket, digital prints and knitted hoods with a slit at the back for your ponytail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG: A metallic tweed cocoon jacket over a leopard top and stretch jeans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MARIA CORNEJO: A plaid mohair skirt and matching blanket coat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JONATHAN SAUNDERS: A metallic silk ensemble with squared shoulders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CAROLINA HERRERA: A floral jacquard dress with embellished cuffs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PREEN: A cutout minidress in wool and chiffon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATWALK/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (69%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



670 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: China Seeks To Stop Paris Sale Of Bronzes

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Chen Yang contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
China is stepping up the pressure on Christie's auction house to withdraw two bronzes from its sale of Yves Saint Laurent's vast collection next week in Paris, saying they were looted from the imperial Summer Palace near Beijing nearly 150 years ago.
 The two Qing dynasty bronze animal heads, one depicting a rabbit and the other a rat, are believed to have been part of a set comprising 12 animals from the Chinese zodiac that were created for the imperial gardens during the reign of Emperor Qianlong in the 18th century. 
 China views the relics as a significant part of its cultural heritage and a symbol of how Western powers encroached on the country during the Opium Wars. The relics were displayed as fountainheads at the Old Summer Palace, known in Chinese as Yuanmingyuan, until it was destroyed and sacked by British and French forces in 1860.
 At a press briefing in Beijing last week, a spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry said the two bronzes should be returned to China because they had been taken by ''invaders.'' And a group of Chinese lawyers says it plans to file a lawsuit this week in Paris seeking to halt or disrupt the sale. But Christie's says the sale is legal and plans to go ahead with the auction on Monday through Wednesday in Paris, where the two bronze items could fetch as much as $10 million to $13 million apiece.
 ''While Christie's respects the cultural context around the sale of the fountainheads, and will handle the association with Yuanmingyuan with care and discretion, we respectfully believe the auction will proceed,'' the auction house said in an e-mail message in response to questions. 
 Christie's added that it believed in the repatriation of cultural objects but also saw its role as bringing them to market.
 Most experts say China has little legal claim in international courts because the bronze relics were looted more than a century ago. But China is putting up a vigorous fight nonetheless. 
 In recent years it has been using its growing political and economic muscle to push other nations to hand over lost or stolen Chinese treasures, and to help it fight international smugglers who continue to loot historic sites in the country and peddle items on the black market.
 After more than three years of diplomacy, the Bush administration reached an agreement with China last month to ban the import of a wide range of Chinese antiquities into the United States, in an effort to discourage illegal trade in artifacts.
 The bronzes at issue at Christie's are part of a much larger collection of artworks and antiques being put up for sale this month by the estate of Yves Saint Laurent, the French designer, who died last year at 71, and his former companion and longtime business partner, Pierre Berge. The auction house estimates the potential sales total for the collection, which consists of about 700 pieces, at as much as $350 million.
 In news releases, Christie's has said that Mr. Berge plans to use the auction proceeds to help form the Pierre Berge and Yves Saint Laurent Foundation, which would be dedicated mainly to scientific research to fight AIDS. On Monday Mr. Berge's office referred all calls to Christie's.
 The auction is opening at a time of rising nationalist sentiment in China and growing strains in its relations with France.
 Last year Beijing was angered by protests against its actions in Tibet during the Olympic torch relay in Paris. And Chinese officials canceled a trip to Paris after President Nicolas Sarkozy of France met in December with the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader, whom Beijing has denounced as a separatist.
 Liu Yang, a Beijing lawyer who is helping to organize the lawsuit threatened in France, said he had located a descendant of China's royal family to serve as plaintiff in the case.
 ''The Old Summer Palace, which was plundered and burnt down by Anglo-French allied forces during the Second Opium War in 1860, is our nation's unhealed scar, still bleeding and aching,'' Mr. Lui said. ''That Christie's and Pierre Berge would put them up for auction and refuse to return them to China deeply hurts our nation's feelings.''
 Mr. Liu also asserted that the sale would violate a 1995 United Nations convention governing the repatriation of stolen or illegally exported cultural relics.
 But Patty Gerstenblith, a professor of law at DePaul University in Chicago who specializes in cultural-property issues, said that France never ratified the convention and that even if it had, the agreement does not apply retroactively to objects looted decades or centuries ago.
 ''My view is this was looted, but it would be difficult to get that legally back,'' she said in a telephone interview on Monday. ''But it's got great historical significance and ought to be returned.''
 Professor Gerstenblith suggested that one solution might be for the Yves Saint Laurent and Pierre Berge Foundation to negotiate with China and offer it at a reasonable price. ''It would probably be in the best interest of everybody if they made a deal privately with China,'' she said.
 Over the last decade Chinese entrepreneurs and businessmen with close government ties have acquired a large number of historic items at auction and donated them to Chinese museums and institutions.
 Stanley Ho, the billionaire Macao casino operator, acquired two other bronze animal heads that were believed to have been taken from the Old Summer Palace. In 2007 he acquired a bronze horse head at a Sotheby's auction in Hong Kong for about $9 million and donated it to Beijing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bronze rabbit head is one of two 18th-century Chinese relics from the Yves Saint Laurent estate being auctioned in Paris.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%); OPIUM (55%); ARMED FORCES (53%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



671 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Global Markets Decline On Weakness in Japan

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Markets in Asia and Europe fell on Monday, after a report showed that Japan's economy contracted in the last quarter at its quickest pace in 35 years and a weekend meeting of the Group of 7 finance ministers provided few concrete proposals to counter the recession.
 Drops in Europe came after losses in Asia, but trading volumes were subdued as American markets were closed for Washington's Birthday. American markets reopen Tuesday. 
 The FTSE 100 in London declined 1.31 percent, the DAX in Frankfurt sank 1.06 percent, and the CAC 40 in Paris dropped 1.19 percent.
 Japan's worse-than-expected fourth-quarter G.D.P. numbers were a sobering reminder of the toll the worst economic downturn in decades is having on Asia's export-driven economies. Its economy, the world's second-biggest, shrank 3.3 percent from the previous quarter, or at an annual pace of 12.7 percent.
 In Europe, financial stocks dragged markets lower. Shares in Lloyds Banking were volatile in London after the company's revelation Friday of larger-than-expected losses at the recently acquired Bank of Scotland and on market fears that the combined company might be headed for nationalization. 
 Shares dropped 20 percent in early trading, but regained ground to close down 8.1 percent. Shares had dropped 30 percent on Friday.
 Insurance companies also dragged down the London exchange. The Legal and General Group fell 10.5 percent, Prudential lost 8 percent and Aviva slipped 7 percent.
 ''Whereas before people were just selling banks, now they are looking at the risk involved with other financials,'' said Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management.
 Investors seemed disappointed after finance chiefs from the Group of 7 developed countries finished their meeting in Rome with pledges to work together to bolster growth and unemployment, but stopped short of concrete measures.
 Increasingly, investors are unconvinced that world governments are acting quickly enough to counter the economic crisis, analysts said.
 ''The global recession is deeper than anticipated. At the same time, policy makers are failing to deliver measures to address the problems,'' said Dariusz Kowalczyk, chief investment strategist for SJS Markets in Hong Kong. ''It seems that what they're doing is too little too late.''
 The Nikkei 225 stock average in Japan edged down 0.38 percent, to 7,750.17 on Monday, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong dropped 0.73 percent, to 13,455.88. 
 The Kospi in South Korea lost 1.4 percent.
 India's benchmark tumbled 3.6 percent after the government, proposing its interim budget, offered no new stimulus measures. Markets in Australia and Singapore also retreated.
 In Japan, several exporters were hurt by the data showing the economy sank deeper into recession.
 The result represents the steepest drop for Japan since the oil shock of 1974 and outpaced G.D.P. drops in the United States and the euro zone.
 A survey of economists by Kyodo news agency had projected an 11.6 percent annualized contraction.
 ''It's clearly very shocking data,'' said Clive McDonnell, head of Asia strategy at BNP Paribas Securities in Hong Kong. ''The drop is certainly beyond our own quite negative expectations.''
 Shares in the Toyota Motor Corporation lost 0.7 percent, while the electronics heavyweight Canon slid 1.2 percent and the Sony Corporation fell 1.3 percent.
 In the United States, equity markets were closed for Washington's Birthday. On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1 percent, to 7,850.41, its lowest close since Nov. 20. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock fell 1 percent, ending its week off 4.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Screens in China showed markets in Europe and Asia lower on Monday. U.S. markets were closed on Washington's Birthday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INSURANCE (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%)

COMPANY: LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC (54%)

TICKER: LGEN (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



672 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: G.M. IS PRESSING UNION FOR CUTS IN HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
With its access to a government lifeline possibly at risk, General Motors executives were locked in intense negotiations Monday with leaders of the United Automobile Workers over ways to cut its vast bills for retiree health care.
 G.M. will file what is expected to be the largest restructuring plan of its 100-year history on Tuesday, a step it must take to justify its use of a $13.4 billion loan package from the federal government.
 The plan will outline in considerable detail, over as many as 900 pages, how G.M. will further cut its work force, shutter more factories in North America and reduce its lineup of brands to just four, from eight, according to executives knowledgeable about its contents. The remaining core brands will be Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC and Buick. 
 But G.M.'s plan to shrink its way to profitability will not mean much without an agreement with the U.A.W.
 On Monday, G.M. pressed union leaders in a meeting in Detroit for a deal on financing what was the centerpiece of the 2007 U.A.W. contract -- a perpetual, G.M.-financed trust to cover health care costs of hundreds of thousands of retired hourly workers and their surviving spouses.
 Both sides were hopeful that either an agreement, or at least significant progress, might be achieved by the time G.M. submitted its plan, according to three people familiar with the substance of the negotiations. 
 Talks are also continuing between the U.A.W. and Ford Motor and Chrysler. But the focus of negotiations has been with G.M., which has to address how a company that lost more than $20 billion last year can afford $5 billion a year in medical bills.
 In its overall plan, G.M. needs to show President Obama's new cabinet-level task force that it can substantially reduce costs and make a convincing case about its long-term viability by a March 31 deadline.
 The company has already extended buyout offers to its entire United States unionized work force to reduce their ranks by another 20,000 jobs. It has also announced a 14 percent reduction in salaried workers around the world, leaving many of its white-collar workers in Detroit with limited prospects. 
 The plan will also probably include revisions in executive compensation and targets for cutting dealers and brands like Saturn and Pontiac.
 Details of the plan have been closely guarded. G.M.'s board met Monday to review its contents, which will not be completed possibly until Tuesday, according to one G.M. official who asked not to be identified because of confidentiality agreements.
 Chrysler was also said to be in the final stages of completing its plan on Monday, which will include further cuts in its manufacturing operations in the United States and more details on its strategy to rebuild its product lineup with a network of foreign alliances. 
 The plan was still under discussion late Monday with officials at Cerberus Capital Management, owner of an 80 percent stake, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.
 The White House press secretary said Monday that the Obama administration was ''anxious'' to see the plans, but shared no timetable on when the president's task force would comment.
 ''We're anxious to take a look at the plans, understanding that it is extremely important to have a strong and viable auto industry,'' the press secretary, Robert Gibbs, told reporters aboard Air Force One. ''Obviously that is going to require some restructuring to ensure its viability.''
 On Monday, the president designated the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and the chairman of the National Economic Council, Lawrence H. Summers, to oversee the task force on the auto industry. 
 The move surprised executives at G.M. and Chrysler, who were expecting the appointment of a ''car czar'' who would play an active part in negotiations between G.M. and Chrysler and their unions and lenders.
 The task force is not likely to complete any review of the plans for at least a week or 10 days, according to an administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The president expects negotiations between G.M. and the U.A.W. and others to continue without pause for the plan's submission, the official said.
 Talks between G.M. and its bondholders have cooled while the automaker considers the framework of an agreement offered by the bondholders to reduce G.M.'s debt to $9 billion, from $28 billion.
 The U.A.W. talks, however, have been constant since Saturday, when Ron Gettelfinger, the union's president, at one point cut off discussions with G.M. -- only to drive across town to take up the topic of retiree health care with Ford.
 Ford has not received government loans, so it is significant that the U.A.W. appears to believe it must address retiree health care at all three Detroit auto companies simultaneously.
 G.M. has the most at stake with the U.A.W. Its future obligations for retiree health care are estimated at $47 billion, and by next year it is required by its contract to contribute more than $10 billion to the trust set up in 2007.
 The company, which nearly ran out of money before receiving the first $9.4 billion of its $13.4 billion in late December, is pressing the U.A.W. to accept stock for as much as 50 percent of its next contribution to the trust, according to two people knowledgeable about the discussions.
 Mr. Gettelfinger, for his part, is trying to protect one of the jewels of the U.A.W. contract, which is essentially health care for life for anyone who worked on the assembly line and their surviving spouses. G.M. has already canceled health care for more than 100,000 of its salaried retirees.
 ''The U.A.W. at this point understands that it can very well turn into the villain of this whole thing by insisting that its workers receive health care benefits that few workers do,'' said Gary N. Chaison, a labor expert at Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
 U.A.W. members are bracing for bad news, and worrying that their health care plan will be sacrificed to keep G.M. from going bankrupt.
 ''Where does it all stop?'' said Mike Green, president of U.A.W. Local No. 652, which represents workers in Lansing, Mich. ''It would be devastating. Our typical person works between 30 and 40 years. They did their part. Why should they have it taken away with the sweep of a pen?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Smaljlaj, left, with the help of Mario Curanaj, looks at vehicles at Zanetti Chrysler Jeep Dodge in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lawrence H. Summers, left, a presidential adviser, with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (62%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



673 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, Working to Help Their School in Haiti and Its City

BYLINE: By PETER DUFFY

 BODY:
For two decades and more, Haiti, a land of grinding poverty, has endured coups, riots, a repressive military regime and hurricanes, travails that have often been overlooked beyond its borders.
 But one group of 60 Haitians, most of whom live in Brooklyn, has worked hard to maintain a bond with one small part of their homeland, becoming a lifeline of sorts for the school where they all graduated in Gonaives, a coastal city in northern Haiti. 
 From its headquarters on Avenue H in East Flatbush, the Alumni Association of Immaculate Conception College has organized construction projects, delivered books, sponsored scholarships and bought athletic uniforms for two decades. 
 ''Those of us who went to the school are bound together,'' said Gregory Longchamp of Canarsie, Brooklyn, a 1976 graduate of the school, which serves students from ages 14 to 20. ''We are linked together by an experience that changed our lives.''
 But hurricanes and tropical storms that ravaged Gonaives in 2004 and in 2008 have raised the association's level of involvement in the city of 300,000.
 In September 2004, heavy rains caused by Hurricane Jeanne led to severe flooding in Gonaives, killing 2,800 residents, including a math teacher at Immaculate Conception, Beaudelere Achille. The alumni association joined with two other Haitian organizations in New York to organize a disaster fund, eventually spending more than $80,000 on relief projects.
 Then four storms struck over three weeks in August and September 2008 -- Tropical Storm Fay, Hurricane Gustav, Tropical Storm Hanna and Hurricane Ike. Of the tens of thousands of people left homeless, about 495 sought shelter in the school, which, though damaged, was able to withstand the floodwaters. 
 The alumni association has been part of a relief drive since the 2008 storms, though members said it has not done as well as the 2004 drive, largely because of the economic downtown. Still, the association is helping provide hot meals at seven locations in the city, an effort organized by a resident of Gonaives, Gladys Dubousquet, who traveled to New York to seek help. 
 The association is also helping eight schools near Immaculate Conception that were destroyed in the storms. Although Immaculate Conception itself reopened for classes on Nov. 5, much work needs to be done to repair mud-filled classrooms and rebuild a destroyed library and chemistry lab. 
 The crisis in Gonaives is far from over. By the end of last month, about 73,000 people in the city were still relying on food distributed by the United NationsWorld Food Program, according to Bettina Luescher, a spokeswoman for the program in New York. Antoine Coq, the president of the alumni association, said, ''The situation is still critical.'' 
 When the alumni association was formed in 1989, members feared for their school's survival. A French-Canadian order of Roman Catholic priests, Les Clercs de St. Viateur, based in Joliette, Quebec, had staffed Immaculate Conception since the mid-1960s, making it into one of the most respected schools in the country.
 But the priests began pulling out of the school after the violence that led to the overthrow of the Duvalier dictatorship in 1986. A popular priest who was influential in the school's development, the Rev. Rosaire Guevin, returned to Canada after Duvalier forces killed three students, one of them on the school's property.
 ''The morale of the school was low,'' said Mr. Coq, an adult education teacher from East Flatbush who attended Immaculate Conception from 1976 to 1981. ''We wanted to do something that showed that things would get better and that former students living outside of Haiti cared.''
 Many of the association's 60 active members are teachers, engineers, doctors and other professionals. They credit their successes to rigorous academic training at the school, which requires that applicants pass a difficult entrance exam, and to moral instruction by teachers. In Haiti, the school's graduates include politicians, television personalities and judges.
 ''Once you go to that school, you are prepared as a human being,'' said a former student, Ricot Dupuy, station manager of Radio Soleil D'Haiti, a popular Haitian radio station in Brooklyn. ''It puts values into you that are long-lasting.'' 
 Soon after it was founded, the association started by partially financing 25 scholarships. Its ambitions grew, and, in 1996, it provided the seed money for a new 14-room wing, which allowed the school to expand its capacity. 
 In addition to providing goods and materials for the school, the association sends thousands of dollars worth of medical supplies each year to a hospital next door. The association is also working on a plan to improve the city's flood prevention plan. 
 ''The idea is to see if we could transform the city of Gonaives into a model of development for Haiti,'' said Carl Boromee, a member of the association's executive board who teaches math at Frederick Douglass Academy in Harlem.
 But the school remains the association's priority. Immaculate Conception currently has 574 students and 41 teachers, making it the largest in Gonaives. It charges tuition fees that are equivalent to about $150 a year, a considerable amount in Haiti, the poorest nation in the hemisphere. Many students rely on remittances from relatives living in the United States, Mr. Boromee said. The principal travels to New York each year to give a report at the association's annual meeting.
 ''The future of Haiti is in the hands of these kids,'' Mr. Coq said. ''If we educate them, Haiti has a future. If we don't, Haiti doesn't have a future.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Discussing their school, Immaculate Conception College, in Gonaives, Haiti, are, from left, Carl Boromee
Antoine Coq, the president of the alumni association
 and Youri Berthaud.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); ALUMNI (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); RIOTS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); RELIGION (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CHEMISTRY (50%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (64%) HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



674 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Audio excerpts from opera recordings that, in 1907, were carefully wrapped in wax and stored in lead and iron containers beneath the Paris Opera, left, with instructions that they should remain undisturbed for 100 years. One hundred years later, the vault was opened, and the containers were exhumed, right. And, after lengthy examination, cleaning and digitizing of the records, EMI, the heir to the Gramophone Company that supplied the recordings in 1907, is reissuing them on three CDs. The collection will be released in France later this month as ''Les Urnes de l'Opera'' and in the United States in early April with the English subtitle ''Treasures From the Paris Opera Vaults.'' 
 nytimes.com/music
 Fashion Week
 SLIDESHOW: The Moment
 Follow what's happening at New York Fashion Week away from the catwalks with pictures from Eric Ray Davidson, updated throughout the day.
 SLIDESHOW: BACKSTAGE ACCESS
 A panoramic view backstage before the Tracy Reese show.
 SLIDESHOW: MODEL-MORPHOSIS
 The photographer Greg Kessler captures the many transformations of New York Fashion Week, from the clothes to the makeup.
 INTERACTIVE: TRENDSPOTTING
 In an interactive feature, Ruth La Ferla reports on the latest looks on the runways.
 SLIDESHOW: FASHION DIARY
 With Guy Trebay's diary are images from some of the edgiest parties of the week.
 VIDEO: DOWNTURN STYLE
 A conversation with Michael Kors about American fashion in a time of recession.
 All available at:
 nytimes.com/fashion
 INTERACTIVE: MILESTONES OF A CRISIS
 An interactive timeline tracks the major events in the automakers' decline and the efforts to rescue them.
 nytimes.com/business
 VIDEO: AFTER THE BUYOUT
 When Chrysler offered its nonunion salaried employees a buyout in November, Steve Grames and Jim Badhorn were two of the 5,000 employees who took the offer. Now they face an uncertain future.
 nytimes.com/business
 INTERACTIVE: SPENDING $787 BILLION
 A detailed look at the final economic stimulus package passed by Congress; the breakdown can be filtered by category.
 nytimes.com/politics
 VIDEO: CRITICS' PICKS
 In a video feature, A. O. Scott reviews ''The Deer Hunter,'' which won the Oscar for best picture in 1979.
 nytimes.com/movies
 The Quad
 Star Gazing
 For the Notre Dame basketball player Zach Hillesland, watching the N.B.A. All-Star Game was the highlight of what could have been a very depressing Valentine's Day weekend.
 nytimes.com/thequad

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY URNES DE L'OPERA - 1907
 DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); FASHION SHOWS (91%); OPERA (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); TRENDS (71%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); BASKETBALL (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



675 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: That Perk in the Sky Has Defenders on Land

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
THERE are bad economic times. Then there are bad economic times made even worse by a furious public and political fallout against high-end spending.
 The luxury hotel industry, as I've said, was the first to feel this effect. It started with understandable public outrage last fall when the insurer American International Group ran up a hotel bill of $443,343.71 for an incentive junket for its salespeople at a fancy Southern California resort five days after accepting a big emergency federal bailout loan. The ensuing furor caused many corporate travel managers across the country to abandon the use of luxury hotels, partly for the sake of appearances.
 Next to feel the populist heat was the general aviation industry, which had been enjoying two years of record prosperity amid forecasts that $300 billion worth of new planes, primarily business jets, would be sold in the next 10 years. 
 That ride ended. A steadily worsening economy in 2008 caused a 19.3 percent cutback in business-jet flight hours through November, according to a study by J.P. Morgan. Then things suddenly got worse with the Detroit debacle.
 That was when the three chief executives from the major American automakers used big corporate jets to fly from Detroit to Washington in November to beg for a taxpayer bailout. The business aircraft industry promptly went into free fall as the ensuing outcry clobbered it like a tornado.
 Now the industry is desperately trying to turn things around with public appeals to ''cool the overheated rhetoric on the use of business jets,'' as Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, said last week.
 Mr. Brownback represents a state rich in aviation history and jobs. Two business-aircraft makers, Cessna and Hawker Beechcraft, are based in Wichita.
 Both companies are presenting the case that -- occasional abuses and wretched excesses aside -- corporate jets are crucial tools, providing competitively vital access to thousands of secondary airports in markets where commercial air service is inadequate or nonexistent.
 Jim Schuster, the chief executive of Hawker Beechcraft, is the most prominent industry executive I know who is willing to concede that the Detroit debacle created a perception problem. 
 But, Mr. Schuster added, ''to use those three guys and their stupidity, in terms of what they did, to cast a negative light over an entire industry, is a huge mistake.'' 
 After the auto executives had used the jets for their Washington trips, even Mr. Schuster said he was taken aback.
 ''I sat back in my chair and put my hands over my eyes and said, 'Oh, why did they do that?' '' he said. ''It was terrible, terrible judgment on their part, but I don't think they stopped to think for a minute that people were going to react this way.''
 I asked him how bad things really are now: ''Very bad; the worst we've seen. Just due to the economic circumstances, we'd laid off tens of thousands of people across the industry already. So the industry was in a very vulnerable position.''
 He added, ''The optics are one thing, but people don't understand the effect the backlash is having on the U.S. general aviation industry, a great national asset.'' With half of all business jets now sold outside the United States, ''it's one of our few remaining technology exporters,'' he said, adding, ''We dominate globally. We also provide some of the highest-paying jobs'' in an increasingly competitive global aircraft business.
 We're going to be hearing a lot more from the business aviation industry -- which, until recently, had successfully promoted corporate jets as a valuable aid to increasing productivity.
 The alternative, the industry argues, is not reliable enough. ''Commercial airline service is going to continue to deteriorate,'' Mr. Schuster said.
 Still, he said, sometimes a commercial flight makes more sense than using a private plane, and sometimes a small private plane is better than a big one. ''Some companies bought airplanes that exceed their needs,'' he said. ''When you're flying a Gulfstream 550 from Detroit to Chicago, unless it's packed full, it doesn't make sense. But if you're flying a G550 from New York to London to Paris to Trinidad and back, that airplane is absolutely invaluable.''
 Charles D. Mayer, Hawker Beechcraft's marketing vice president, said: ''I came to this company from the automotive industry, and I used to fly on Ford aircraft that would shuttle between company locations in Irvine, Calif.; Detroit; and Arizona. Those airplanes were always packed with 40 or so people. They ran them a couple of times a week, and these folks were all working on those planes. Trust me, it was not luxury travel.'' 
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LODGING (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AIRPORTS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); HAWKER BEECHCRAFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%)

PERSON: SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



676 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Recession Starts to Worry Silicon Valley, Report Finds

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
The global recession came late to Silicon Valley, but the region is bracing for a rough year that may strain local social services. 
 A report to be released Tuesday by Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, an organization that assesses the region's social, economic and environmental health, warns that its social services network is outdated and ''frayed.'' It also found that per-capita income fell slightly last year, down 0.8 percent from 2007. 
 The annual report, the 2009 Silicon Valley Index, also says that the current ''patchwork'' of educational and social programs will fail to meet the needs of the area when it eventually emerges from the recession and tries to prepare workers for new kinds of jobs. 
 After holding steady through most of 2008 while the rest of the country suffered, Silicon Valley had a spike in unemployment at the end of the year, the report said. Employment dropped 1.3 percent in December from a year ago as more tech companies laid off workers. 
 At the same time, demand for commercial real estate waned, while home foreclosures in the region rose 186 percent year over year, far more than the rate for the state as a whole. 
 But that comparative increase is largely a function of the region's real estate market experiencing the effect of the downturn long after the rest of the state had. The region is still faring better, with only 3 percent of California's home foreclosures. ''We are not immune to the recession. We're just late, as opposed to 2000, when we were the recession,'' said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto. 
 The California real estate market softened, then consumers reduced their ''shopping at the mall,'' Mr. Levy said. ''Finally, they have reduced their purchasing of iPods and flat-screen TVs.''
 The dot-com bust at the beginning of the decade and the recession that followed were felt most severely in Silicon Valley. But this recession is clearly different. The region's situation is exacerbated by the state government's enormous budget deficit, which last week stood at $42 billion. 
 The State Assembly has been struggling to write a budget proposal that includes large tax increases and deep cuts in a huge range of services and public projects, including money for education, training programs and hospitals throughout the state. 
 One area of serious concern in the report is the state's community college system, which employers have long relied on to help train lower and middle-income workers for new jobs. Joint Venture believes the system is underfinanced, and it has been threatened with cutbacks in state support. 
 Joint Venture is among a number of California organizations calling for an overhaul of the state government to help solve California's financial problems. Last week, Joint Venture's 49-member board voted unanimously to support a convention to rewrite California's Constitution. The group and others are hoping to gain enough support to place a proposition on the ballot in June. 
 ''This is a statement that the system is broken, and that inaction will lead to ruin,'' said Russell Hancock, chief executive and president of Joint Venture. ''It's time to start over.''
 The report also showed that the gap between the wealthiest and the poorest residents continued to grow. The percentage of households earning more than $100,000 a year rose to 42 percent in 2008, from 35 percent in 2002, while the number of households earning $35,000 or less rose to 20 percent, from 19 percent in the same period.
 During that period, the number of immigrants to Silicon Valley grew 9 percent.
 The report highlighted reasons for optimism. Overall venture capital investment in Silicon Valley companies fell 7.7 percent during the year, but less than the decline of 11.4 percent nationwide.
 Investment of nearly $1.9 billion in clean technology during 2008 was nearly double that in 2007. The bulk of new technology jobs will be in clean technology businesses, according to the report. That sector has had job growth of 23 percent since 2005. In that sector, green construction has had the most growth, with a fourfold increase in jobs since 2005.
 ''Silicon Valley has a unique role to play in solving the climate crisis and bringing an end to this recession,'' Mr. Hancock said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); FORECLOSURE (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); TAX LAW (60%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



677 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: As the Recession Waxes, Business Meetings Wane

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

DATELINE: Call it the case of the incredible shrinking 

 BODY:
-- even disappearing -- meeting.
 According to a survey released last month that was conducted by the industry trade group Meeting Professionals International and American Express, 7 percent of business meetings already scheduled for 2009 have been canceled. And attendance is expected to be down by about 5 percent at those meetings that are still being held, the survey found. 
 While anecdotal reports indicate that few industries have been spared, a large number of the canceled events appear to be in industries hit hardest by the recession: banking, mortgage lending, the credit cards, home construction and renovation. 
 Reasons behind the cancellations vary. In some cases, image -- not wanting to appear to be spending lavishly in a recession -- is the impetus. ''We've received notices of cancellation along with a check for the full amount,'' said Steven Rudner, a hotel industry lawyer. ''Nobody wants to be perceived as the next A.I.G.'' 
 But more often a professional event is canceled because the number of prospective attendees has shrunk as companies lay off employees and cut travel and professional education budgets for remaining workers. 
 Paul Kedrosky, a senior fellow at the Kauffman Foundation, said he was asked to be co-chairman of a three-day conference about finance and technology in New York City that was to have been held earlier this month. The conference has been postponed indefinitely. While the previous year's conference had drawn 550 participants and positive feedback, Mr. Kedrosky said, the volatility among financial firms had decimated the event's target audience. ''A huge chunk of them have lost their jobs, are worried about losing their jobs or are under very tight financial constraints,'' he said.
 One conference planner, who did not wish to be identified because of continuing hotel negotiations, canceled a two-day seminar a month before it was scheduled to take place when only 16 delegates had registered. The event had drawn an average of 125 people in years past. The organization refunded registration fees for the handful who had signed up, and also offered a credit toward a future event to offset the expense of canceling their flights. 
 Some event organizers, desperate for delegates, are going so far as to waive registration fees or to offer free hotel rooms to lure budget-minded business travelers. Canceling an event is not cheap. Costs can run into six figures, starting with the hotel's cancellation fees and including any planned entertainment and functions planned outside the hotel.
 Holding a conference with a drastically reduced head count is not much better, though. Typical contracts include clauses that require the host to compensate the hotel for the difference between the number of guest rooms held for the group and those actually filled. 
 As a rule, hotels would rather have fewer guests than receive a cancellation check, because conferences usually generate revenue from purchases like minibar snacks or fitness center passes. In flush times, hotels would probably have been able to rebook the rooms. But in the third week of January, the average occupancy rate of hotels in the United States was 47.3 percent, according to research firm STR Global, down nearly 8 percent from the same period last year. This means hotel rooms are likely to remain vacant if a meeting is canceled. 
 Convention centers are expected to be less affected than hotels because their space is booked several years in advance. But the drop in meetings will probably lead to a decline in hotel tax revenue for local governments. For now, the approximate half-year lag between when those taxes are collected and when municipalities receive them is insulating cities that depend on tourism dollars, but the downturn could start to pinch by the third quarter of 2009. 
 Even when companies do sign on to attend or exhibit at an event, they are often sending only one or two employees where they once sent a phalanx of workers. 
 Pinny Gniwisch, founder and head of marketing for the online jewelry retailer Ice.com, decided not to take another employee with him to an Internet retail conference in Orlando, Fla., earlier this month because he expected turnout to be lighter than usual. ''Initially, we thought having one person there from a networking perspective might not be able to cover all the bases, but seeing that a lot of people probably won't be there, the necessity for two people there is gone,'' he said.
 Professional speakers have also been hurt in the meeting downturn. ''I would say the majority of companies we've dealt with in the past have either lowered their budgets or canceled their meetings,'' said Barry Maher, a motivational speaker who says his business has been affected. When a client cancels, Mr. Maher and others in his field are doubly hurt, because they depend on their presentations to bring in new bookings. Mr. Maher says he has been booking smaller, less lucrative gatherings to increase his exposure.
 And underwhelming attendance has a discernible impact on an event, said Thom Singer, another professional speaker. In November, Mr. Singer said he spoke at an accounting industry conference that drew fewer than one-third of the expected 150 delegates. ''I think the attendees kind of felt like it was second-rate because it was so small,'' he said. ''You definitely felt disappointment. The vibe was not as strong.''
 But several frequent business travelers said there was a silver lining to sparsely attended conferences and conventions. They can speak directly with educators and experts, which would not be possible with a large crowd, and fellow participants tend to be corporate decision makers rather than underlings. 
 Mr. Gniwisch of Ice.com agreed. ''That's the only reason I didn't cancel,'' he said. ''When it's more intimate, people feel more comfortable. For deal making, people connect a lot better that way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DISMISSALS (87%); LODGING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



678 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: For Education Chief, Stimulus Means Power, Money and Risk

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The $100 billion in emergency aid for public schools and colleges in the economic stimulus bill could transform Arne Duncan into an exceptional figure in the history of federal education policy: a secretary of education loaded with money and the power to spend large chunks of it as he sees fit.
 But the money also poses challenges and risks for Mr. Duncan, the 44-year-old former Chicago schools chief who now heads the Department of Education.
 Mr. Duncan must develop procedures on the fly for disbursing a budget that has, overnight, more than doubled, and communicate the rules quickly to all 50 states and the nation's 14,000 school districts. And he faces thousands of tricky decisions about how much money to give to whom and for what. 
 ''It'll be wonderful fun for a time for his team -- it'll be like Christmas,'' said Chester Finn, a former Department of Education official who has watched education secretaries or commissioners come and go here since the mid-1960s. ''But the thing about discretionary spending is that it makes more people angry than it makes happy.''
 The bill, which President Obama is expected to sign on Tuesday, doubles federal spending on disadvantaged and disabled children, includes hefty increases in the main federal college scholarship program and for Head Start, and, for the first time, makes billions in federal dollars available for school renovation.
 Expectations are running so high, and the appetite for information is so large among the nation's educators, that when Mr. Duncan organized a conference call last Wednesday to begin explaining the stimulus bill's terms to a few dozen state and district superintendents, 800 callers swamped the switchboard.
 Most of Mr. Duncan's unusual power would come in disbursing a $54 billion stabilization fund intended to prevent public sector layoffs, mostly in schools. The bill sets aside $5 billion of that to reward states, districts and schools for setting high standards and narrowing achievement gaps between poor and affluent students. The law lets Mr. Duncan decide which states deserve awards and which programs merit special financing.
 ''It's hard to imagine moving that much money that quickly,'' said Margaret Spellings, Mr. Duncan's predecessor, who turned her seventh-floor office over to him last month. ''The point is, it's never been done before, and as much confidence as I have in Arne Duncan, there's an awesome opportunity for slippage with that much money moving through the meat grinder.''
 Maybe Ms. Spellings is slightly jealous, since she and other secretaries stretching back decades had only small amounts of money for favored projects.
 ''Teeny, teeny,'' said Amy Wilkins, who as vice president at the Education Trust, a civil rights group, has studied the budgets of several of Mr. Duncan's predecessors. ''Margaret was looking for quarters in her pencil drawer.''
 Mr. Duncan said he understood the unusual circumstances. 
 ''There's going to be this extraordinary influx of resources,'' he said in an interview. ''So people say, 'You're going to be the most powerful secretary ever,' but I have no interest in that. Power has never motivated me. What I love is opportunity, and this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to do something special, to drive change, to make our schools better.''
 Mr. Duncan said he intended to reward school districts, charter schools and nonprofit organizations that had demonstrated success at raising student achievement -- ''islands of excellence,'' he called them. Programs that tie teacher pay to classroom performance will most likely receive money, as will other approaches intended to raise teacher quality, including training efforts that pair novice instructors with veteran mentors, and after-school and weekend tutoring programs.
 The stimulus money will help states avert some, but most likely not all, of the education cutbacks for the 2009-10 school year resulting from state budget shortfalls that currently total some $132 billion. California, for instance, is facing a $41 billion budget shortfall, much of it in school spending, but will receive some $11 billion in education money from the stimulus, estimates the National Education Association, the nation's largest teachers union. 
 The positions of deputy secretary, under secretary and chief of staff and dozens of other senior posts at the Education Department remain unfilled, so Mr. Duncan is relying on help from career officers and consultants. He has appointed teams to develop procedures for distributing the stimulus billions quickly, and many aides, he said, have been working evenings and weekends to begin organizing the effort.
 ''I want all of us to work hard enough and smart enough to take full advantage of this, because it'll never happen again,'' Mr. Duncan said last month in his first speech to hundreds of civil servants at department headquarters, as the outlines of the huge stimulus package were taking shape in Congress.
 Urging department employees not to be deferential, he described the reception he got on his first visit to his headquarters.
 ''It was like, 'Hello, Mr. Secretary-designate-nominee,' and it didn't feel right,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''My name is Arne. It's not Mr. Secretary. Please just call me Arne.'' That line drew a standing ovation.
 He has hit it off well with Congress, too, so far. His wife, Karen, whom Mr. Duncan met in Australia, where he played professional basketball after his 1987 graduation from Harvard, accompanied him to his Senate confirmation, along with their daughter, Claire, 7, and son, Ryan, 4, who sat quietly during the hearing, reading storybooks.
 ''If you and your wife have done such a great job with Ryan, who is so well behaved, I hope you can do that with every child in American classrooms,'' said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia. 
 Another Republican senator, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, said Mr. Obama had made ''several distinguished cabinet appointments.''
 ''I think you're the best,'' Mr. Alexander, who was education secretary under the first President Bush, said to Mr. Duncan.
 But now comes the hard part.
 Last year the Education Department distributed about $59 billion to states, school districts and colleges, most of it along well-worn financing paths mapped out by Congress.
 ''Congress usually spends two years debating the rules for how to spend $50 million,'' said Jack Jennings, president of the Center on Education Policy, a research organization in Washington. ''But this time they're providing money without spelling out how it should be spent, so Arne Duncan and his staff are going to have to work out rules themselves in just weeks. He's going to have his hands full.''
 Congress has stipulated some rules, of course. To receive a share of the $54 billion stabilization fund, governors must make several ''assurances'' to Mr. Duncan, intended to drive school reforms: that they are developing statewide data systems that can allow schools to track individual students' academic progress, that they are assigning experienced teachers fairly to rich and poor schools alike, and so on. Mr. Duncan has the ticklish job of ruling on whether the governors' assurances are convincing.
 And Congress has given him a $5 billion incentive fund that he can use to reward states that are raising student achievement and withhold money from states that are not. ''We have states that tell the public that 90 percent of kids are meeting state standards,'' Mr. Duncan said, ''but when we look at how they're doing on theNational Assessment of Educational Progress, it's nowhere close. I'm not going to reward that. I want to be transparent about the good, bad and the ugly.''
 Some states and districts will get less than what they believe is their share, which could create powerful enemies.
 ''Secretary Duncan has a very challenging job,'' said Joel Packer, a lobbyist for the National Education Association. ''It'll take a lot of effort to get this right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Arne Duncan (pg.A1)
 Upon meeting department employees last month, Arne Duncan, the new education secretary, asked them to call him by his first name. ''My name is Arne,'' he said. ''It's not Mr. Secretary.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY VERONIKA LUKASOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) CHART: THE INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION: Federal spending on education using stimulus money for the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years. (Includes spending by agencies other than the Education Department.) (Source: National Education Association) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CHILDREN (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (92%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



679 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: I Dream Of Denver

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
You may not know it to look at them, but urban planners are human and have dreams. One dream many share is that Americans will give up their love affair with suburban sprawl and will rediscover denser, more environmentally friendly, less auto-dependent ways of living.
 Those dreams have been aroused over the past few months. The economic crisis has devastated the fast-growing developments on the far suburban fringe. Americans now taste the bitter fruit of their overconsumption. 
 The time has finally come, some writers are predicting, when Americans will finally repent. They'll move back to the urban core. They will ride more bicycles, have smaller homes and tinier fridges and rediscover the joys of dense community -- and maybe even superior beer. 
 America will, in short, finally begin to look a little more like Amsterdam.
 Well, Amsterdam is a wonderful city, but Americans never seem to want to live there. And even now, in this moment of chastening pain, they don't seem to want the Dutch option. 
 The Pew Research Center just finished a study about where Americans would like to live and what sort of lifestyle they would like to have. The first thing they found is that even in dark times, Americans are still looking over the next horizon. Nearly half of those surveyed said they would rather live in a different type of community from the one they are living in at present.
 Second, Americans still want to move outward. City dwellers are least happy with where they live, and cities are one of the least popular places to live. Only 52 percent of urbanites rate their communities ''excellent'' or ''very good,'' compared with 68 percent of suburbanites and 71 percent of the people who live in rural America. 
 Cities remain attractive to the young. Forty-five percent of Americans between the ages of 18 and 34 would like to live in New York City. But cities are profoundly unattractive to people with families and to the elderly. Only 14 percent of Americans 35 and older are interested in living in New York City. Only 8 percent of people over 65 are drawn to Los Angeles. We've all heard stories about retirees who move back into cities once their children are grown, but that is more anecdote than trend.
 Third, Americans still want to go west. The researchers at Pew asked Americans what metro areas they would like to live in. Seven of the top 10 were in the West: Denver, San Diego, Seattle, San Francisco, Phoenix, Portland and Sacramento. The other three were in the South: Orlando, Tampa and San Antonio. Eastern cities were down the list and Midwestern cities were at the bottom.
 Finally, Americans want to go someplace new. The powerhouse cities of the 20th century -- New York, Los Angeles, Chicago -- are much less desirable today than the ones that have more recently sprouted up.
 In short, Americans may indeed be gloomy and hunkered down. But they're still Americans. They are still drawn to virgin ground, still restless against limits.
 If you jumble together the five most popular American metro areas -- Denver, San Diego, Seattle, Orlando and Tampa -- you get an image of the American Dream circa 2009. These are places where you can imagine yourself with a stuffed garage -- filled with skis, kayaks, soccer equipment, hiking boots and boating equipment. These are places you can imagine yourself leading an active outdoor lifestyle.
 These are places (except for Orlando) where spectacular natural scenery is visible from medium-density residential neighborhoods, where the boundary between suburb and city is hard to detect. These are places with loose social structures and relative social equality, without the Ivy League status system of the Northeast or the star structure of L.A. These places are car-dependent and spread out, but they also have strong cultural identities and pedestrian meeting places. They offer at least the promise of friendlier neighborhoods, slower lifestyles and service-sector employment. They are neither traditional urban centers nor atomized suburban sprawl. They are not, except for Seattle, especially ideological, blue or red.
 They offer the dream, so characteristic on this continent, of having it all: the machine and the garden. The wide-open space and the casual wardrobes.
 The folks at Pew asked one other interesting question: Would you rather live in a community with a McDonald's or a Starbucks? McDonald's won, of course, but by a surprisingly small margin: 43 percent to 35 percent. And that, too, captures the incorrigible nature of American culture, a culture slowly refining itself through espresso but still in love with the drive-thru. 
 The results may not satisfy those who dream of Holland, but there's one other impressive result from the Pew survey. Americans may be gloomy and afraid, but they still have a clear vision of the good life. That's one commodity never in short supply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); FAMILY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); WRITERS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



680 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Omnifone Nears Broadband Music Service in Europe

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The digital music company Omnifone said Monday that it planned to bring unrestricted downloads or streaming songs and music videos to European homes, legally, through agreements with Internet service providers. 
 The company said it had reached deals with the four major music companies to offer the service through broadband connections to television set-top boxes or computers.
 Omnifone said it was in discussions with several Internet service providers, which have come under pressure from European governments and the recording companies to crack down on music piracy.
 The company did not name potential partners. Omnifone is working with British Sky Broadcasting, which plans to bring out a music service shortly. Sky, a pay-television company whose largest shareholder is the News Corporation, also provides broadband to more than 1.6 million households in Britain.
 Services offering unlimited listening are proliferating as the music industry tries to counter illegal file-sharing, which the record companies blame for billions of dollars in lost sales. Growth in sales of individual tracks, via online music stores like Apple's iTunes, has slowed.
 Unlimited offerings give consumers the sense that they are getting music free because it can be bundled into the cost of a broadband subscription, in the way that many Internet providers already offer television programming.
 ''We need to deliver something that's better than piracy,'' Rob Lewis, chief executive of Omnifone, said.
 Omnifone already runs unlimited music services for cellphone operators like Vodafone. It said its licenses with the music companies covered Europe, Latin America, Australia and other regions, though not, for now, the United States.
 While music companies are struggling with a plunge in sales, European Internet providers face the threat of legislation aimed at curbing piracy.
 In France, lawmakers are expected to vote soon on a measure that would require service providers to cut off service to persistent pirates. In Britain, the government recently said it might require service providers to hand over the personal details of copyright cheats so that music companies could pursue them in the courts.
 ''There's still a lot of distance between the labels' position'' and that of the service providers, Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Forrester Research, said. ''It's in the interest of both parties that the gap is narrowed sooner rather than later.''
 Sky previously announced an agreement with one of the major recording companies, Universal Music Group, to offer music downloads and streaming in Britain.
 Sky's own music service is expected to be introduced later this year, according to several people briefed on the situation who spoke on condition of anonymity because details had not been publicly announced. The Sky service is not immediately expected to offer music through set-top boxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); BROADBAND (92%); MUSIC (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); STREAMING MEDIA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); COPYRIGHT (75%); RETAIL SALES (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); MUSIC STORES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (70%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (58%); APPLE INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (51%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (70%); NWS (ASX) (70%); BSY (LSE) (58%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (53%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



681 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Reducing the Inmate Count

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Court Panel Orders California to Reduce Prison Population by 55,000 in 3 Years'' (news article, Feb. 10): 
 Good behavior credits and diversion of nonviolent criminals may be viable options for reducing prison populations, but this article does not mention one of the most important solutions -- more high school diplomas. Forty percent of state prison inmates and nearly half of local jail inmates are high school dropouts.
 If states are truly serious about reducing crime and strengthening their economies, then dropout prevention and college readiness must be part of their criminal reform policies.
 Recent economic studies show cutting the dropout rate in half would generate an additional $45 billion in federal tax revenues and cost savings. Similarly, increasing just the number of males graduating high school by 5 percent would save the nation $5 billion in crime-related costs, transforming would-be prison inmates into productive citizens.
 Marguerite Kondracke President and Chief Executive America's Promise Alliance Washington, Feb. 10, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In January 2008, the National Council on Crime and Delinquency produced a review of major accelerated release programs, which occurred over more than 20 years across the country. It showed that in no instance was there any indication that releasing prisoners early resulted in an increase in crime. In some cases, the crime rate dropped. 
 There are ways to handle an early-release program with reason and intelligence. First, assess and choose eligible candidates. Then, for nonviolent offenders, replace lockup with treatment for physical and mental health concerns and substance abuse, job training and housing options -- what prisoners re-entering the community need most. 
 The societal benefits of accelerated release include reduction of prison crowding and reduced prison budgets.
 Barry Krisberg President National Council on Crime and Delinquency Oakland, Calif., Feb. 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CRIME PREVENTION (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (76%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON CRIME & DELINQUENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



682 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: The Life of the Party, Imported From France

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
Night life abhors a vacuum. And, let's face it, even before Mr. Recession barged into Manhattan and took residence -- with his flat feet, hair shirt and pockets full of lint -- the evening hours in this town were in dire need of some energizing funk. 
 Yes, yes, yes, there is the Box. But, even five minutes ago, when everyone was apparently sitting atop a hillock of gold coins like Scrooge McDuck, a night at the Box was a quicker way to become a pauper than investing with Bernie Madoff. 
 Where, one often wondered, were the charming bolt-holes of yesteryear? Why was it so tough to find any place half as fun as the Mudd Club was in its heyday or Jackie 60 or the Pyramid. At those spots it was often the exuberance (largely chemically induced) of the clientele, the rampant exhibitionism (and lack of a day job) that infused the proceedings with energy and blurred the boundary between night and day. 
 If you were lucky enough to follow the fashion circuit to Europe, you knew places like that still existed in London and Paris (although not Milan; never Milan). Until the recent demise of BoomBox, London clubgoers still smeared their faces with lipstick, in the manner of the late Leigh Bowery, got up in clown drag for a night of flailing in a magical free-entry East London dive that was a playpen for all buzz names of London fashion: Gareth Pugh, Kabir, Cassette Playa, et al. 
 ''BoomBox reminded people it's fun to dress up,'' Richard Mortimer, the impresario behind that club, once told me, adding that, while he admired people with good taste, ''I admire people with bad taste as well.''
 Transformed into a movable party called PonyStep, BoomBox recently exported its show to Paris, where it staged one-night wingdings at Le Baron, a former bottle-bar turned into every fashion designer's favorite boite. 
 And that is where New York Fashion Week comes into things, because, in an unusual counter-invasion, the promoters of Le Baron blew into Manhattan for three recent nights, along with the promoters of the vaunted French club, Club Sandwich, and another, known as Rendezvous Paris-New York. They were here to plant freak flags on alien soil. 
 On Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Le Baron set up at the Bowery Hotel for parties sponsored by Belvedere vodka. With brazen political incorrectness, the promoters invited ''homeless people, starving artists, lonely rich people and international superstars'' to hop around to music by James Murphy, Mark Ronson and Paul Sevigny.
 ''I don't want anyone to think we are entrepreneurs of the night,'' said Olivier Zahm, editor of the cult magazine Purple and a host of Le Baron, which he started several years back with the artist and the D.J. Andre Saraiva. ''It's not business oriented.''
 Le Baron became a fashion destination when Mr. Zahm and Mr. Saraiva, looking for a place to hang out with pals like Carine Roitfeld and Lou Doillon, cut a deal with a swank Parisian bar that had lost business to the rise in online sex. 
 ''All these clubs were like a little place where the girls were dancing in front of you for a bottle of Champagne,'' Mr. Zahm said. ''Now, if you're a C.E.O. and you want a girl, you don't go to a bar. You dial the Internet.''
 The club's owners were only too pleased to have Mr. Zahm and his cohort pump cash into their flagging business. Thus Le Baron became the place for Nicolas Ghesquiere and others of his chic ilk to hold their post-show celebrations. Why not? The bar is so dated it is cool. Its postage-stamp dance floor makes bar dancing inevitable. Its many nooks encourage ... uh, intimacy.
 ''There is a sexual vibe, but in a nice way,'' said Mr. Zahm, who is 45 and whose ever-present nimbus of cigarette smoke, oversize aviators and unruly mop lend him some resemblance to a Godard character redrawn for a graphic novel by R. Crumb. ''It's small, it's friendly and that's all. It's like it's in your home.'' This is only true if Hugh Hefner is your dad.
 Unlike Le Baron, which aims for intimacy, Club Sandwich always looks to go big. In Paris last season, for instance, the promoters Marc Zaffuto and Emmanuel d'Orazio took over Maxim's, the Rue Royale nightclub behemoth, and packed it with a crowd that caused one to think of the bar scene in ''Star Wars'' as directed by Jack Smith. There were leather daddies on the ground floor, drag queens on two, hairy-shouldered bears perched on gilded ballroom chairs. On the top floor, Hamish Bowles, an editor at Vogue, spun in solitary circles to Sylvester's ''You Make Me Feel Mighty Real.'' 
 The women, like the men at Club Sandwich, observed a dress code favoring jumpsuits, velvet knickers, underwear worn as outerwear and short-short tennis ensembles that seemed to suggest Rod Laver imagining he was Billie Jean King. 
 If the Club Sandwich scene at the Norwood club on Sunday did not quite attain the heights (or depths) of fashion typical of the Paris original, it surely came close. (Think chain mail.)
 ''We brought it here for the same reason we started it in Paris,'' said Alex Malgouyres, the D.J. (whose day job is as Burberry's public relations director in the United States). ''My friends and I were not going out anymore because we didn't like the music anywhere and we didn't like the crowds.''
 The idea behind the imported Club Sandwich, he went on, ''is that it's not just house music, or just rock, it's everything. It's not just one type of people, it's mixed. It's like a club of, whoever you are, a transvestite, a gay boy, a straight boy or girl, whatever, who cares?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ONE SIZE FITS ALL: The party at Club Sandwich, which has been transplanted to Norwood for Fashion Week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (87%); IMPORT TRADE (85%); CELEBRITIES (72%); FASHION DESIGN (72%); FASHION SHOWS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); SPONSORSHIP (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: BELVEDERE SA (51%)

TICKER: BVD (WSE) (51%); BVD (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (51%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (51%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



683 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Prices Fall Below $37 a Barrel

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Crude oil traded near $37 a barrel in New York on speculation a deepening recession in Europe and Asia will stifle demand for energy and fuel. Brent crude, a benchmark for European, Africa and Russian grades, fell to a three-week low after British bank stocks dropped and the Bank of England said the economy's first quarter contraction might match last quarter's decline of 1.5 percent. Japan, the world's third-largest oil consumer, said that its economy contracted the most since 1974 in the fourth quarter. ''The market data from the U.S. and the other major economies is not painting a picture of an imminent recovery,'' said Toby Hassall, research analyst at Commodity Warrants Australia in Sydney. ''The Japanese data was pretty bad.'' Crude oil for March delivery traded at $36.85 a barrel, down 68 cents from the Friday close, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 10:38 a.m. in Sydney. Floor trading was closed for the Presidents' Day holiday, so Monday's transactions will be booked for settlement on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



684 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: What if Nobody Comes?

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

DATELINE: Call it the case of the incredible shrinking 

 BODY:
-- even disappearing -- meeting.
 According to a survey released last month that was conducted by the industry trade group Meeting Professionals International and American Express, 7 percent of business meetings already scheduled for 2009 have been canceled. And attendance is expected to be down by about 5 percent at those meetings that are still being held, the survey found. 
 While anecdotal reports indicate that few industries have been spared, a large number of the canceled events appear to be in industries hit hardest by the recession: banking, mortgage lending, credit cards, housing construction and renovation. 
 Reasons behind the cancellations vary. In some cases, image -- not wanting to appear to be spending lavishly in a recession -- is the impetus. 
 ''We've received notices of cancellation along with a check for the full amount,'' said Steven Rudner, a hotel industry lawyer. ''Nobody wants to be perceived as the next A.I.G.'' 
 But more often a professional event is canceled because the number of prospective attendees has shrunk as companies lay off employees and cut travel and professional education budgets for remaining workers. 
 Paul Kedrosky, a senior fellow at the Kauffman Foundation, said he was asked to be co-chairman of a three-day conference about finance and technology in New York City that was to have been held earlier this month. The conference has been postponed indefinitely. 
 While the previous year's conference drew 550 participants and positive feedback, Mr. Kedrosky said, the volatility among financial firms had decimated the target audience. ''A huge chunk of them have lost their jobs, are worried about losing their jobs or are under very tight financial constraints,'' he said.
 One conference planner, who did not wish to be identified because of continuing hotel negotiations, canceled a two-day seminar a month before it was scheduled to take place when only 16 delegates had registered. The event had drawn an average of 125 people in years past. The organization refunded registration fees for the handful who had signed up, and offered a credit toward a future event to offset the expense of canceling their flights. 
 Some event organizers, desperate for delegates, are going so far as to waive registration fees or to offer free hotel rooms to lure budget-minded business travelers. Canceling an event is not cheap. Costs can run into six figures, starting with the hotel's cancellation fees and including any planned entertainment and functions planned outside the hotel.
 Holding a conference with a drastically reduced head count is not much better, though. Typical contracts include clauses that require the host to compensate the hotel for the difference between the number of guest rooms held for the group and those actually filled. 
 As a rule, hotels would rather have fewer guests than receive a cancellation check, because conferences usually generate revenue from purchases like minibar snacks or fitness center passes. 
 In flush times, hotels would probably have been able to rebook the rooms. But in the third week of January, the average occupancy rate of hotels in the United States was 47.3 percent, according to research firm STR Global, down nearly 8 percent from the same period last year. This means hotel rooms are likely to remain vacant if a meeting is canceled. 
 Convention centers are expected to be less affected than hotels because their space is booked several years in advance. But the drop in meetings will probably lead to a decline in hotel tax revenue for local governments. For now, the approximate half-year lag between when those taxes are collected and when municipalities receive them is insulating cities that depend on tourism dollars, but the downturn could start to pinch by the third quarter of 2009. 
 Even when companies do sign on to attend or exhibit at an event, they are often sending only one or two employees where they once sent a phalanx of workers. 
 Pinny Gniwisch, founder and head of marketing for the online jewelry retailer Ice.com, decided not to take another employee with him to an Internet retail conference in Orlando, Fla., earlier this month because he expected turnout to be lighter than usual. ''Initially, we thought having one person there from a networking perspective might not be able to cover all the bases, but seeing that a lot of people probably won't be there, the necessity for two people there is gone,'' he said.
 Professional speakers have also been hurt in the meeting downturn. ''I would say the majority of companies we've dealt with in the past have either lowered their budgets or canceled their meetings,'' said Barry Maher, a motivational speaker who says his business has been affected. 
 And underwhelming attendance has a discernible impact on an event, said Thom Singer, another professional speaker. In November, Mr. Singer said he spoke at an accounting industry conference that drew fewer than one-third of the expected 150 delegates. ''I think the attendees kind of felt like it was second-rate because it was so small,'' he said. ''You definitely felt disappointment. The vibe was not as strong.''
 But several frequent business travelers said there was a silver lining to sparsely attended conferences and conventions. They can speak directly with educators and experts, which would not be possible at larger gatherings and fellow participants tend to be corporate decision makers rather than underlings. 
 Mr. Gniwisch of Ice.com agreed. ''That's the only reason I didn't cancel,'' he said. ''When it's more intimate, people feel more comfortable. For deal making, people connect a lot better that way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The registration area for a trade show in Las Vegas. Job losses and curbs to spending have hurt turnouts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DISMISSALS (87%); LODGING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



685 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: In Pain and Joy of Envy, the Brain May Play a Role

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
Most human vices have enough sense to be very, very tempting. Lust, gluttony, sloth, hurling powerful if unimaginative expletives at a member of the political opposition, buying a pair of Thierry Rabotin snakeskin printed shoes at 25 percent off even though you just bought a pair of cherry-red slingbacks last week -- all these things feel awfully good to indulge in, which is why people must be repeatedly abjured not to.
 One vice, however, dispenses with any hedonic trappings and instead feels so painful you would think it was a virtue, except that there's no gain in lean muscle mass at the end: envy. Skulking at sixth place on traditional lists of the seven deadly sins, right between wrath and pride, envy is the deep, often hostile resentment you feel toward somebody who has something you want, like wealth, beauty, a promotion or the admiration of peers. It is a vice few can avoid yet nobody craves, for to experience envy is to feel small and inferior, a loser shrink-wrapped in spite. 
 ''Envy is corrosive and ugly, and it can ruin your life,'' said Richard H. Smith, a professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky who has written about envy. ''If you're an envious person, you have a hard time appreciating a lot of the good things that are out there, because you're too busy worrying about how they reflect on the self.''
 Now researchers are gleaning insights into the neural and evolutionary underpinnings of envy, and why it can feel like a bodily illness or a physical blow. They're also tracing the pathway of envy's equally petty foil, the sensation of schadenfreude -- taking pleasure when those whom you envied are themselves brought down low. 
 Reporting in the current issue of the journal Science, researchers at the National Institute of Radiological Sciences in Japan and their colleagues described brain-scanning studies of subjects who were told to imagine themselves as protagonists in social dramas with characters of greater or lesser status or achievement. When confronting characters that the participants admitted to envying, brain regions involved in registering physical pain were aroused: the higher the subjects rated their envy, the more vigorously flared the pain nodes in the brain's dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and related areas. 
 Conversely, the researchers said, when subjects were given a chance to imagine the golden one's downfall, the brain's reward circuits were activated, again in proportion to the strength of envy's sting: the subjects who felt the greatest envy the first time around reacted to news of their rival's misfortune with a comparatively livelier response in the dopamine-rich pleasure centers of, for example, the ventral striatum. ''We have a saying in Japanese, 'The misfortunes of others are the taste of honey,' '' said Hidehiko Takahashi, the first author on the report. ''The ventral striatum is processing that 'honey.' ''
 Matthew D. Lieberman of the psychology department at the University of California, Los Angeles, who co-wrote a commentary that accompanies the report, said he was impressed by how the neural correlates of envy and schadenfreude were tied together, with the magnitude of one predicting the strength of the other. ''This is the way other needs-processing systems like hunger and thirst work,'' he said. ''The hungrier or thirstier that you feel, the more pleasurable it is when you finally eat or drink.''
 The new findings are preliminary, and some scientists have expressed reservations about what they or other scanning results from the fast-moving field of behavioral neuroscience really mean. Nevertheless, the research throws a spotlight on a potent emotion that we deny or deride but ignore at our peril. Much of the recent economic crisis, Dr. Smith suggested, may well have been fueled by runaway envy, as financiers competed to avoid the shame of being a ''mere'' millionaire. 
 Envy can be seen in other social animals with personal reputations to defend. Frans de Waal of the Yerkes National Primate Research Center in Atlanta noted that monkeys were perfectly happy to work for cucumber slices until a person started giving one monkey a preferred treat like grapes. Then the others stopped working for cucumbers and started nursing a grudge. ''The underlying emotion is likely envy or resentment,'' Dr. de Waal said. 
 When children realize they have siblings, their lives become dominated by the calipers of envy. Why does she always get to sit by the window? His cupcake has more sprinkles! No siblings? No problem: you can envy the cat. 
 Researchers often distinguish between envy and the jealousy you feel by, say, seeing a loved one flirt at a party. Jealousy is a triangle, Dr. Smith said, in which you fear losing a loved one to the embrace of another. Envy is a two-bodied affair, an arrow proceeding from your covetous breast to the heart of the well-endowed Other. Yet envy is restless and gregarious and can embrace popular cliques, honor rolls and entire nation-states. ''It's a fact of life that we pay close attention to status, to who's doing well and who isn't and how we stand in comparison to others,'' said Colin W. Leach, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Connecticut, in Storrs, who studies envy. 
 As a rule, we envy those who are like us in most ways -- in sex, age, class and curriculum vitae. Potters envy potters, Aristotle observed. 
 Paradoxically, this most socially driven of emotions is among the least socially acceptable to confess to. Jealous hostility toward a romantic rival is an acceptable topic for conversation. Envious hostility toward a professional rival is more like an embarrassing body function: please do not share. When asked by researchers about their envy, study participants have said, ''I'm privately ashamed of myself.''
 As evolutionary scientists see it, envy's salient features -- its persistence and universality, its fixation with social status and the fact that it cohabits with shame -- suggest that it serves a deep social role. They propose that our invidious impulses may help explain why humans are comparatively less hierarchical than many primate species, more prone to a rough egalitarianism and to rebelling against kings and tycoons who hog more than their fair share. 
 Envy may also help keep us in line, making us so desperate to look good that we take the high road and start to act good, too. We struggle with our private envy, our longing for more esteem than we command, and the struggle only sharpens the painful contrast between the imagined perfection of the envied adversary that we have enshrined on an imaginary throne, and the defective merchandise that is ourselves. 
 ''If you desire glory, you may envy Napoleon,'' Bertrand Russell said. ''But Napoleon envied Caesar, Caesar envied Alexander, and Alexander, I daresay, envied Hercules, who never existed.'' If envy is a tax levied by civilization, it is one that everyone must pay. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAIN (86%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



686 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Dead End in Detroit

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY; Catherine Rampell contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
For all the ups and downs, and more downs, that white-collar workers here have lived through, they have always managed to put on a brave face, assuring one another that the American auto industry will come back stronger than ever.
 But now that resolve has given way to grim resignation, as General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler have announced wave upon wave of job cuts.
 After closing plants and shrinking their blue-collar work force, Detroit's troubled Big Three are cutting white-collar jobs in their hometown at an unprecedented pace -- more than 15,000 in the last year, with more to come. 
 Unlike union workers laid off from idled factories, salaried workers have no safety net of health care or guaranteed income for a year. At best, it's a small severance or buyout, and a voucher for a discount on one of the hundreds of thousands of unsold cars that G.M. or Chrysler has sitting in inventory. 
 White-collar workers who walk out of the headquarters of the auto companies face few prospects in the Michigan economy. And with G.M. and Chrysler surviving on federal loans, facing a deadline Tuesday to submit new and broader restructuring plans to the government, the outlook grows only more bleak. 
 The market for the skills of auto engineers or designers in the prime of their careers has evaporated, with no hope in sight for a turnaround. Moving to another city is hardly an option when there are so few buyers for the suburban homes that would have to be sold first.
 ''I know it's not great everywhere, but this is probably the worst place to find a job,'' said Doug Zupan, a designer who took a buyout in November after working at Chrysler for six years. He was one of 5,000 salaried workers who accepted a buyout the day before Thanksgiving from his job at the Chrysler Technical Center in Auburn Hills, Mich.
 Mr. Zupan, a 35-year-old father of three preschool-age children, said he was stunned by the sudden and rapid decline in an industry suffering through its worst sales in more than 25 years. ''I am going to do my best to get out of the auto industry,'' he said.
 G.M., Ford and Chrysler have eliminated a total of 120,000 manufacturing jobs in the last three years. And now the cuts are drastically thinning the ranks of white-collar professionals, turning the once-bustling office towers of the companies into half-empty monuments to better days.
 G.M. delivered another blow last week when it said it would reduce its global salaried work force by 14 percent, or 10,000 workers this year. In the Detroit area, that could mean an additional 3,000 workers will be out of a job by May 1. G.M.'s next round of white-collar cuts will not include buyouts. Chrysler has not said whether it plans more cuts.
 The Detroit area housing market, already deeply depressed, has plummeted since the buyouts. In January, the foreclosure rate increased 102 percent from the same month a year earlier in Oakland County, Mich., home to a huge number of G.M. and Chrysler employees.
 The state's unemployment rate was 10.6 percent in December and continues to climb. Job fairs routinely create mob scenes, drawing thousands of out-of-work employees of the Big Three and their suppliers.
 Jim Badhorn was a Chrysler engineer for 21 years before he took the buyout. Among his accomplishments was designing the rear doors of the Chrysler 300 sedan, one of the company's last hit products. 
 Recently, he attended a job fair held by a military contractor but was quickly disappointed. So many people showed up that the police blocked off the parking lot, he said. ''You couldn't even find the end of the line.''
 He considers himself fortunate to be a renter in the Detroit area, where the ''for sale'' signs are multiplying. ''I have friends whose houses have lost 40 percent of their value,'' said Mr. Badhorn, who lives in the suburb of Birmingham. 
 Last November, every white-collar worker in the company was offered a one-time buyout -- $75,000 for those with 10 years or more and $50,000 for those with fewer than 10 years. With Chrysler on the brink of collapse without more federal loans, Mr. Badhorn grabbed the buyout and put much of his $75,000 into a college fund for two of his daughters.
 Frustrated by the tight job market, Mr. Badhorn works off his stress by hitting the gym every day. He's lost 15 pounds since November, but it hasn't made him feel any better about his circumstances. ''I've pretty much come to the conclusion that I'm going to have to move if I want to earn what I made before, or close to it,'' he said.
 The cuts are extending to the vast network of employees who worked on contract to the Detroit companies. Craig Meyer, employed by a supplier named Aerotek, was told by phone that his seven years as a contract designer at Chrysler were over as he was driving to the home of his in-laws the night before Thanksgiving.
 Mr. Meyer has been collecting unemployment since, although the $362 he gets a week is less than half what he was making at Chrysler. ''We're just about able to pay the bills each month,'' he said. ''Food and gas is when we need to start to dip into savings.''
 The prospects are getting worse for Detroit, not better. Last year, United States car sales dropped 18 percent, to 13.2 million, and industry executives expect just 10 million car sales in 2009 and possibly for years to come.
 ''Those white-collar jobs aren't going to come back any more than the blue-collar jobs are,'' said Kevin Boyle, a Detroit native and author of historical books on the city. ''As bad as it is everywhere, it's not as bad as it is in Detroit right now.''
 The unemployment rate for white-collar occupations in Michigan was 5.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, a full percentage point higher than the national average for those jobs, according to Department of Labor estimates.
 Mr. Zupan's $50,000 buyout from Chrysler is supporting him, his wife and his three children -- ages 4, 2, and 6 months -- while he looks for work. He's finishing a master's degree in business administration at the University of Michigan, paid for until last semester by Chrysler, when it could afford to invest in the education of its white-collar staff. He recently took out loans to have an additional financial cushion. 
 His last nest egg is the 300C he bought with his $25,000 buyout voucher. Mr. Zupan said he might sell it if he needed the money. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Craig Meyer, who lost his job after being a contract worker for Chrysler for seven years, is collecting unemployment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
Doug Zupan is finishing a master's in business administration at the University of Michigan. Until last semester, Chrysler paid his tuition. Now he's unemployed.
 Jim Badhorn, left with his daughter Emily, worked as a Chrysler engineer for 21 years before he took a buyout. Among his accomplishments was designing the rear doors of the Chrysler 300 sedan, one of the company's last hit products. He put much of his $75,000 buyout into a college fund for two of his daughters, and expects to have to move out of state to find work.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); CHILDREN (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CLOSINGS (71%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



687 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: California Beckons Film Crews

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
On a sunny afternoon last Tuesday the Roxy, a rock club on the Sunset Strip, was packed for an event of the kind that used to be routine here: a movie shoot.
 Not long ago, location filming in and around Los Angeles was viewed as a nuisance to be suffered with traffic on the San Diego Freeway and the occasional minor earthquake. But it dwindled as states like New Mexico, Louisiana and Michigan used tax incentives to lure film production, while California declined to play the subsidy game.
 In the fourth quarter of last year, the number of location shoots like the one at the Roxy -- where Lakeshore Entertainment was filming a remake of the dance drama ''Fame'' for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer -- dropped to 1,051 days, the lowest count since FilmLA, a monitoring agency, began reporting data in 1994. At the height, in 1996, there were 4,059 days of location shooting in Los Angeles in a single quarter. 
 But that may change. On Monday the state's legislators and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger continued to debate a budget proposal that included $100 million a year in tax credits for so-called below-the-line spending -- payments other than those to the stars and filmmakers -- on certain movies and television shows in the state.
 There have been several attempts over the years to introduce a state tax credit in California, but proponents, including Governor Schwarzenegger, say it may just happen this time. With the tight economy squeezing the flow of money for film and television production, the duel over state tax credits is expected to play an ever more important role in determining where films get made.
 If the proposed California credit survives what has been a rough ride through the legislature, where lawmakers must justify the tax break in the face of planned increases in the sales tax and other levies, scenes of badly parked wardrobe trucks and snarls of electrical wire wrapped in gaffer's tape could reappear on the streets of Hollywood. So could thousands of jobs that proponents say would return with the subsidy. 
 And last Tuesday, at least, it was not hard to see why everybody wants a piece of a business that used to clutter Southern California's beaches and street corners on all but the rainiest days.
 ''Oh, yes, it really is fun, a lot of it,'' said Kevin Tancharoen, a young director with MTV roots (his credits include the network's ''Dancelife'' series), as he juggled shots of his young cast performing stage numbers that had about 150 extras howling as if they meant it.
 Tom Rosenberg, Lakeshore's chief executive and a producer of the film, reckoned that in all, about 1,500 dancers, extras and primary actors will have worked on ''Fame.'' It is a reimagining of Alan Parker's 1980 film about the High School for the Performing Arts in New York, set in a musical world that has since been turned on its axis by the rap revolution.
 Mr. Rosenberg and company plan to be in New York this week to shoot scenes in various boroughs to give their movie, set for release next fall, the required air of authenticity.
 But most of the picture was shot in Los Angeles. Producers have used indoor locations like the Roxy, and some outdoor settings that look Eastern enough to ''cheat'' for New York, as Mr. Rosenberg put it. 
 ''Fame'' remained in Los Angeles partly because the crews and resources are unmatched, he said. One challenge was to costume all of those young performers -- roughly 17 to 23 years old -- in clothing that evolves across the four years and changing seasons represented in the movie. That was easier in a city where costumes come by the warehouse-full.
 Young singers and dancers also abound here (though actors were brought from around the country) , along with the requisite adult stars. Kelsey Grammer, Bebe Neuwirth and Debbie Allen all play roles in the film. 
 On Tuesday Collins Pennie, who has appeared in ''Half Nelson'' and ''Prom Night'' as well as on television shows like ''Law & Order'' and ''CSI: Miami,'' spent the better part of an hour hammering his way through takes of a rap anthem written for the new movie, while Mr. Tancharoen had his crew grab shots with a Steadicam.
 (Earlier Mr. Pennie shared the stage with Naturi Naughton, who played Lil' Kim in her last film, ''Notorious,'' which was shot last year in New York and released by Fox Searchlight in January.)
 The club was smoky with movie magic -- no cigarettes, just a fog machine. The extras were paid for a day's work hooting, dancing and chatting one another up over fake cocktails at tables in back of the club. 
 ''Checking the gate,'' the camera operator yelled after a take. The crowd was experienced enough to know that meant a wrap, as long as there was no hair inside the camera fouling the shot. 
 There was not. The extras whooped. 
 Movies can still be a pretty good business here. When you can find one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Naturi Naughton at a Hollywood middle school, doubling for a New York high school, shooting a scene for a remake of ''Fame.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAEED ADYANI/METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); SALES TAX (76%); BUDGETS (76%); DANCERS (74%); DANCE (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); BEACHES (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MOVIE FILMING (57%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



688 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Sweeteners: Real Aid or Excuse to Indulge?

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
You may find this surprisingI certainly did -- but only about 15 percent of Americans regularly consume beverages and foods that contain artificial sweeteners. 
 Given the perpetual struggles in this nation with expanding waistlines, and the apparent popularity of diet sodas, I would have expected that at least half the population would routinely try to cut calories by choosing what scientists call non-nutritive sweeteners in place of caloric sweeteners like sugar (sucrose) and high-fructose corn syrup.
 Experts offer several reasons people may be reluctant to make the switch. One, of course, is taste. People become used to foods and drinks tasting a certain way, and they won't or can't adapt to a new flavor. Try convincing a lover of regular Coke that Diet Coke tastes as good. 
 Another obstacle is the safety concerns about the federally approved non-nutritive sweeteners: aspartame (NutraSweet and Equal), saccharin (Necta Sweet), sucralose (Splenda), stevia (Truvia and PureVia), acesulfame potassium (Ace-K) and neotame (a relative of aspartame). 
 Forty years ago saccharin and cyclamates came under scrutiny after a study found that the combined artificial sweeteners caused cancer in laboratory rats. That led to a federal ban in 1969 on cyclamates, a sweetener that is still marketed in more than 100 countries. Saccharin, rarely used in soft drinks, remains a popular tabletop sweetener despite a suspected link to bladder cancer.
 Early on, aspartame was charged with causing headaches and other neurological problems, including seizures and brain tumors. Although some consumers may be sensitive to this sweetener, in 25 years of widespread use no human evidence of a link to cancer has emerged from prospective studies of diet and health.
 A final issue is the role of non-nutritive sweeteners in appetite and weight control. I am not alone in having noticed that many overweight people drink diet sodas as if they were water. The question is: Does a weight problem prompt people to try to cut calories, or does the consumption of artificial sweeteners lead to their weight problem?
 Behavior, Not Biology
 In the current issue of The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Richard D. Mattes of Purdue University and Barry M. Popkin of the University of North Carolinareviewed 224 professional studies of the effects of non-nutritive sweeteners on appetite, food intake and weight. They acknowledge that the literature is rife with contradictory reports. 
 Nonetheless, they concluded that ''taken together, the evidence summarized by us and others suggests that if non-nutritive sweeteners are used as substitutes for higher-energy-yielding sweeteners, they have the potential to aid in weight management.''
 But there's a rub. In the published report and in interviews, Dr. Popkin and other experts emphasized that these no-calorie and very-low-calorie sweeteners can aid in weight control only if people do not overcompensate by eating lots of high-calorie foods.
 I've long been amused by diners who choose a dessert like apple pie a la mode, at about 600 calories a serving, and sprinkle artificial sweetener in their coffee or tea to replace the 16 calories in a teaspoon of sugar. If taste is the only reason, then go for it. Otherwise, this trade-off makes no sense.
 ''Used prudently, non-nutritive sweeteners can work,'' Dr. Popkin said. ''We feel that after water and noncaloric teas and coffees, diet beverages are completely safe and should be consumed by people trying to lose weight or keep from gaining. In the real world, however, a lot of people don't do it properly, and they gain weight drinking diet sodas because they use them as an excuse to eat more high-calorie foods.
 ''It's more a behavioral issue than a biological one,'' Dr. Popkin said. ''Some people use non-nutritive sweeteners as a crutch; other use them to help create a healthy diet.''
 Overcompensation
 Still, some researchers believe that non-nutritive sweeteners can be responsible for that crutch because sweetness, regardless of its source, begets an increased desire for sweet-tasting foods. Some scientists maintain that an attempt to fool the body by divorcing the sweet taste from the calories that would normally be in a sweet food creates a craving for real calories.
 For example, in recent widely publicized studies in rats, Susan E. Swithers, a psychologist at Purdue University, compared the results when animals were given either caloric sweeteners or saccharin with a regular, unrestricted diet. Those given saccharin gained more weight and more body fat because they overcompensated for the noncaloric sweetener, Dr. Swithers said in an interview. A possible reason, she suggested, is the failure of saccharin to raise the animals' core temperature as much as a caloric sweetener does.
 ''The experience of the sweet taste no longer has the expected consequences,'' Dr. Swithers said. ''We don't know if humans react in the same way because no one has tested this idea in humans.''
 Why Waste Calories?
 But as Dr. George Blackburn put it, ''Man is not a rat.'' Dr. Blackburn, director of the Center for the Study of Nutrition Medicine at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, said that when people were motivated to lose weight, non-nutritive sweeteners could help. 
 In one of the largest and longest studies, Dr. Blackburn and his colleagues at Beth Israel found that among dieters who were randomly assigned to consume liquid calories or artificially sweetened drinks for 175 weeks, those who drank the diet drinks took in 100 fewer calories a day and lost significantly more weight and kept more of it off.
 ''Those 100 calories add up to 10 pounds a year,'' Dr. Blackburn said. ''Small changes in caloric intake can result in small but meaningful healthier weights. Most people would be happy with that.''
 Dr. Barbara Rolls and her colleagues at Pennsylvania State University have done short-term studies using non-nutritive sweeteners as sugar substitutes to reduce energy intake. They found them effective ''when used as a real substitute and not an excuse to eat a lot of other things,'' Dr. Rolls said. ''Why waste the calories?''
 In a 19-month observational study among 548 middle-school children by Dr. David Ludwig and colleagues at Harvard University, each added serving of sugary soft drink daily increased the obesity risk 60 percent. The children who drank diet drinks did not gain weight. A six-month follow-up study found that overweight children given noncaloric drinks lost significant weight compared with those who consumed their usual soft drinks. 
 Adam Drewnowski, director of the Center for Public Health Nutrition at the University of Washington in Seattle, said the diet soda and weight issue must consider economics. 
 ''Regular soft drinks are largely consumed by lower income groups, who are more likely to be obese, whereas diet soft drinks tend to be consumed by more upscale people, who tend not to be obese,'' he said in an interview. ''What contributes to the obesity -- is it the drink or socioeconomic status?''
 This is the second of two columns on popular sweeteners. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY NEILL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (99%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (95%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); FOOD ADDITIVES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); NUTRITION (89%); DIETING (89%); CANCER (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); RODENTS (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); BLADDER CANCER (66%); INTERVIEWS (60%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



689 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: City and Developer Spar Over Coney Island Visions

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Coney Island was once known as the world's largest playground, where millions of working- and middle-class New Yorkers prowled an anarchic, pulsating bazaar of bathhouses, freak shows, dance halls, carousels, roller coasters, chop suey parlors, hotels, hot dog stands and game booths tightly packed across two miles of beachfront.
 But that was more than 45 years ago.
 In the latest in a long line of efforts to revamp or revive the onetime resort, the Bloomberg administration recently introduced its plan to develop a year-round amusement and entertainment destination, with a special 9.4-acre amusement district, as well as new housing, shops and parks. And in keeping with the waterfront's contentious history, a prominent civic organization and a developer, who has spent over $100 million buying up property in the area, have put forward competing visions of how to best preserve the soul and mythology of Coney Island. 
 The civic group, the Municipal Art Society, contends that the Bloomberg administration's plan must be bigger and bolder to be successful, with three times as much land dedicated solely to outlandish amusements and an ''eye-popping'' attraction akin to the London Eye, a 443-foot high Ferris wheel.
 ''Coney Island will only be successful if we think big enough, with enough space for outdoor amusements to accommodate the potential attendance and to create a true economic engine,'' said Vin Cipolla, president of the Municipal Art Society, who estimated that Coney Island could attract 3.4 million New Yorkers and tourists a year.
 The developer, Joseph J. Sitt, whose own plan owes more to Disney World than to Coney Island's tradition of inexpensive amusements, argues that both the city and civic proposals are ''seriously flawed'' and doomed. In order to be economically viable, he says, there need to be time-share hotels and large retail shops, which would be banned under the city's zoning proposal.
 ''We want to create a 21st-century Coney Island,'' said Jesse Masyr, a real-estate lawyer who represents Mr. Sitt. ''We don't believe it's economically viable because of the restrictions imposed on development in the district.''
 Mr. Sitt, who has wrestled with city officials over his plans for several years, has tried to put pressure on the Bloomberg administration by vowing to buy more land in the area and ousting some of his tenants, including Astroland amusement park, adding to the desolate and vacant lots on the waterfront.
 The issues are only further complicated by the recession, sharply declining retail sales and the inability to get financing for any project, regardless of who the developer is. Many residents of Coney Island are more concerned with affordable housing, jobs and attracting grocery stores to the area than the nuances of rebuilding the amusement district, although no one wants it to close down. The beaches, a minor league ballpark and what's left of the amusements still attract millions of summer visitors.
 ''We hope that there'll be some sort of marriage of convenience so we don't lose any summers, especially now with a depression, when more people may choose to come to Coney Island,'' said Chuck Reichenthal, district manager for Community Board 13.
 The city is pressing forward, expecting that Mr. Sitt will ultimately yield or sell his land. ''The city's plan will set the stage for the restoration of Coney Island's world-renowned vibrancy,'' said Robert C. Lieber, deputy mayor for economic development. The art society ''has some compelling concepts that we are open to, but it's also important to make sure that the final plan is economically feasible and is integrated with the Coney Island community.'' 
 The Coney Island that is lodged in the public imagination dates back 100 years to a time when the playground spilled across more than 60 acres, with sandy beaches and three separate amusement parks: Dreamland, the most opulent; Luna Park, a blur of minarets, spires and swirling fountains; and Steeplechase Park. It is where some historians say the hot dog, the roller coaster and indoor amusements were invented.
 But Coney Island declined rapidly after World War II, and the last of the great amusement parks, Steeplechase, closed in 1964. Over the decades, Robert Moses sought to demolish the remaining amusements, while the developer Fred Trump tried to build apartment towers along the boardwalk. 
 Today, the amusement district is a shrunken five acres with only the skeletal remains of Coney Island's heyday: the 270-foot high Parachute Jump, the Cyclone roller coaster, the Wonder Wheel -- all three are official city landmarks -- and Nathan's hot dog stand. Gone are the Thunderbolt, Mile Sky Chaser, Loop-o-Plane, the Half Moon Hotel and Feltman's restaurant.
 After years of study and many public meetings, the Bloomberg administration introduced its plan last month calling for a special L-shaped 9.4-acre amusement district, along the boardwalk south of Surf Avenue, between KeySpan Park and the New York Aquarium. The zoning also provides for indoor arcades, tattoo parlors, bowling alleys, theaters, laser games, breweries, bicycle shops, restaurants, gift shops and spas just to the north of the special district, as well as hotels on the south side of Surf Avenue, which parallels the waterfront.
 Viewed as incompatible, apartment buildings are banned from the amusement district, but up to 5,000 units, including 900 set aside for low- and moderate-income tenants, can be built on the north side of Surf Avenue and west of the ballpark. The city also plans to upgrade the aquarium and build a new park to the west of Steeplechase Plaza. 
 The city's plan entails buying the land for a permanent amusement park from local owners, including about half of Mr. Sitt's 10 acres. Although city officials have said that they will not resort to eminent domain, the text of the proposal states that ''the land could be acquired by condemnation.'' The parkland west of the ballpark would, in turn, be converted to developable land.
 The city's differences with Mr. Sitt and the art society revolve not around whether to preserve Coney Island's unique character, but around how big the amusement district should be and what uses should be allowed.
 The art society concluded that at least 25 acres should be devoted exclusively to amusements, enough room for a half-dozen major rides and an iconic attraction, in order to create a district that would attract 3.5 million visitors and become an economic engine for the city.
 The art society recommends that hotels and housing be built on the north side of Surf Avenue, but not in the amusement district south of Surf Avenue. In order to underwrite the costs, they say that there could be the kind of lucrative signage and corporate sponsorship deals that generate $63 million a year at the L.A. Live entertainment complex in Los Angeles. In the meantime, they say the city should hire an impresario and develop concerts, live theater and rides until developers are selected for the project.
 The city views the art society's recommendations as financially impractical, as do Mr. Sitt and even some longtime vendors in Coney Island. They cite the $300 million theme park, Hard Rock Park, which went bankrupt last year, nine months after opening in Myrtle Beach, S.C. 
 ''The city's plan practically doubles what we have now,'' said Dennis Vourderis, who together with his brother, Steven, owns the one-acre Deno's Amusement Park, consisting of 22 rides including the Wonder Wheel. ''Based on a 100-day operating season, it's tough to recoup the cost of these rides.''
 Mr. Sitt has developed a $1.5 billion plan to revive the amusement districtwith high-tech rides, a glass-enclosed water park, arcades, restaurants, a shopping mall and now time-share hotels, instead of apartment towers. He has argued that time-shares and big-box retailers would help underwrite the cost of the amusements. 
 City officials counter that the commercial and residential development would soon overwhelm the amusements.
 The two sides have been at loggerheads for over two years. Mr. Sitt had planned on waiting for Mr. Bloomberg to leave office. But after the mayor announced his bid for a third term, Mr. Sitt began negotiating with the city over a possible deal. The talks foundered around Thanksgiving.
 The fear is that ultimately little or nothing will happen on Coney Island.
 ''We might be looking at vacant lots for a long time to come,'' said Charles Denson, executive director of the Coney Island History Project. ''Everybody's broke. These massive plans, these visions, don't usually work. But I hope for the best.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The city's plan for a 9.4-acre amusement district. The Municipal Art Society wants it much bigger. A developer wants time-share hotels and big retailers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CITY OF NEW YORK)
A developer's plan, left, adds hotels and big-box stores. An illustration by the Municipal Art Society imagines a boardwalk scene with a mechanical elephant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THOR EQUITIES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY SQUINT OPERA)(pg. A31) CHART: Bloomberg's Vision for Coney Island's Revamping: The city recently initiated a public review of its plan to develop a year-round urban and entertainment destination in the neighborhood. Critics diverge on how big the amusement district should be and the kinds of development should be allowed. (Source: New York City's ''Coney Island Comprehensive Plan'') Chart details Coney Island. (pg. A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ZONING (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); RETAILERS (74%); BEACHES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CITIES (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); RETAIL SALES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



690 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Data Hints At Slowing Of Decline

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
In a recession as bad as this one, here is what passes for optimism: Some economists say the wrenching pace of the downturn may be slowing. 
 No, the economy has not stopped falling, they caution. In fact, home prices and employment levels are probably still nowhere near a bottom. But recently, a handful of lesser-known indexes and indicators measuring things like overseas shipping rates and manufacturing outlooks have begun to paint a picture that, while bad, is not quite as bleak as a few months ago.
 ''It's too early to get excited, but I think there are a couple of green shoots that say we're not going down as heavily in the first quarter as we were in the fourth quarter,'' said Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase. 
 The deepening recession has made fools of experts and officials who have tried to call a bottom, only to see stock markets skid lower and the downturn gain speed. Everyone from economists to President Obama warns the economy is bound to deteriorate further as businesses cut jobs and the government struggles to prop up banking. 
 The downturn has hobbled countries around the world, underscored Monday when Japan said its economy shrank at an annual pace of 12.7 percent from October through December. 
 Still, several economists point to signs of hope -- or slightly less despair. ''You go from a free fall to a steady decline,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners. ''Is that good? No, it's not good, but at least you're kind of falling at a slower pace, and that's the first step to some of these indicators starting to flatten out.''
 Two gauges of retailing and manufacturing activity measured by the Institute for Supply Management crept up a bit in January. Manufacturing shrank at a slower rate in January from December, and new orders rose slightly, according to the group. 
 ''They're still signaling negative growth, but just not as negative as they were a few months ago,'' Mr. Kasman said.
 Last week, the Commerce Department reported retail sales crept up 1 percent in January as stores slashed prices. It was a small rise after six straight months of declines, and economists cautioned that sales were likely to slip again as consumers curtail spending. 
 Sales of existing homes jumped an unexpected 6.5 percent in December, the National Association of Realtors reported last month, as buyers took advantage of falling mortgage rates. 
 Some negatives looked a little less negative. Consumer credit slid 3.1 percent in December, according to the Federal Reserve, a sign Americans were shunning their charge cards, but the drop was slightly less than November's 5.1 percent slide.
 And although the United States imported and exported 5.7 percent less in goods and services in December, the drop in trade volumes was a shade less breathtaking than November's 9.4 percent.
 Some have also seized on a recent upturn in the Baltic Dry Index, which measures the cost of shipping raw goods like copper, steel and iron. The index cratered last fall as global growth halted, and analysts smelled whiffs of renewed demand as the index more than doubled from its lows.
 ''It really suggests there's some sort of supply-and-demand bounce that's tightening up in commodities,'' said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. ''It could fade again, but it's an encouraging sign.''
 Credit markets are still fragile, but analysts say they have stepped back from the brink since October and November, when banks essentially stopped lending to each other and the financial system seemed on the verge of imploding.
 Businesses with highly rated debt can again borrow on the bond market, and even companies with shakier ratings find lenders. The companies still have to pay high interest rates, but the premium over government debt has narrowed in recent weeks.
 The three-month London interbank offered rate, which measures how much banks charge each other to borrow, has settled near 1.2 percent, down from 4.5 percent at the height of the crisis.
 ''There are some cracks that are beginning to appear that are allowing some sunlight to come in,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''But whether this foreshadows a turning point in the economy, that's something no one knows.''
 After all, an economy that tumbles at a slower rate is still tumbling, and the distinction may mean little to a laid-off factory worker or families losing their houses to foreclosure.
 While most economists still expect an upturn in the second half of the year, many are cutting back their outlook about how quickly that recovery might take hold. They worry that even a $787 billion government stimulus package may not be enough. 
 The government reported that 598,000 jobs were lost in January, the most for that month in two decades, and economists expect the unemployment rate to rise to 9 or 10 percent from January's 7.6 percent. Because employment numbers typically lag the broader economy, millions of Americans may still be losing their jobs even after the recession bottoms out. 
 In a survey in February of 50 forecasters by Blue Chip Economic Indicators, most still expected the economy to turn around in the second half of 2009, but their expectations for growth were dwindling. They expected the economy to shrink 1.9 percent this year, and said it would grow an anemic 2.1 percent in 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); NEW ORDERS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); RETAIL SALES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



691 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: The Perils of Bipartisanship

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''2nd Pick to Run Commerce Dept. Withdraws Bid'' (front page, Feb. 13): 
 The withdrawal of Senator Judd Gregg from consideration for the post of commerce secretary, coming on the heels of the Republican Party's overwhelming and disciplined rejection of the stimulus package, should serve as a wake-up call for President Obama's strategy of bipartisanship. It should now be clear that, for all its facile appeal, bipartisanship is a mistake for at least three reasons.
 First, it assumes a willing partner, and the Republicans have made it clear that their goal is to rapidly derail this presidency rather than help build a new spirit of bipartisanship. 
 Second, it assumes that the solutions to the nation's ills lie somewhere in the middle of the political spectrum -- between the two parties -- whereas the reality is that our most pressing problems, from providing universal health care and sensible economic regulation, to environmental protection and labor law reform, all require more radical solutions, not weak compromises.
 Third, bipartisanship of this kind undermines democracy because it thwarts the will of the people. Republican ideas and political practices were decisively rejected at the polls last November; they should not reappear through the back door.
 I voted for Barack Obama and his policy agenda. I thought we won. 
 Let's see it enacted. Chris Howell
 Oberlin, Ohio, Feb. 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (52%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



692 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Bond Advice Leaves Pain In Its Wake

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
David Rubin built a big business over two decades crisscrossing the country to show local governments how to raise more money. 
 But a close look reveals that his consulting firm, CDR Financial Products of Beverly Hills, Calif., left pain in its wake from Florida to New Mexico. The Internal Revenue Service has cracked down on dozens of communities, which have been saddled with unfinished public projects, financial losses and more debt than they can manage.
 Though consultants like CDR and Mr. Rubin turn up again and again in places where bond deals have turned sour, they are virtually unregulated. The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board is now appealing to Congress to expand its authority to cover consultants and other advisers in the municipal bond business as well as bankers and brokers. 
 Christopher Taylor, who retired as director of the rules board in 2007, says even harsher action is needed. Common industry practices have led governments to refinance their debts more often than necessary and take on excessive risk, he says, adding that some practices should be banned outright. 
 CDR, for its part, says that while its advice to its clients has been creative and inventive, it has always taken care to follow the rules, and a spokesman said a vast majority of the transactions in which the firm took part had raised no legal concerns.
 For years, Mr. Rubin and his consulting associates have helped put local officials in touch with bankers and traders who can add sophisticated features to the bonds that states and cities issue to pay for public works. The banks would charge fees, officials were told, but the special features would more than make up for those costs. 
 In some places, Mr. Rubin's firm also contributed to political campaign funds. In New Mexico, federal authorities are investigating whether CDR made improper payments to Gov. Bill Richardson's campaigns in exchange for work on a $1.6 billion transportation bond issue, a disclosure that caused Mr. Richardson to withdraw from consideration to join the Obama administration. 
 While bond underwriters are barred from making political contributions, financial advisers like CDR are not. And financial intermediaries often pitch municipal bond deals as a team, with many features in a proposed package. The investigators in New Mexico want to know if CDR's contributions helped sell the package, landing lucrative deals for participants who were barred from making contributions. 
 The investigators are also scrutinizing the way the bond proceeds were handled at CDR's direction. One type of trade the firm recommended was subsequently banned -- but not before CDR helped New Mexico execute eight such trades. CDR; the law firm of Ballard, Spahr, Andrews & Ingersoll; the accounting firm of Grant Thornton; and the Bank of Albuquerque took a cut on each trade, earning $556,000 in total.
 Another type of transaction, involving an interest-rate swap, has run up unexpected costs. CDR earned fees of about $493,000 for its swaps work, paid by the Royal Bank of Canada, Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers.
 A spokesman for CDR, Allan Ripp, said the transactions were legal at the time. As for the swaps, he said that CDR's employees had provided valuation data in ''a very specific role,'' without recommending them. 
 New Mexico officials said they believed the state's finances were better off because of CDR's services but were unable to provide a complete accounting.
 Little is known about Mr. Rubin, who has avoided public comments and even opportunities to be photographed. He began his career in real estate and started the consulting firm at age 25, initially working to structure bonds for low-cost housing. When he was appointed to the Los Angeles Housing Authority in 2002, he was credited with creating a new type of bond structure. 
 What was not announced was that dozens of bond deals with CDR participation were being audited -- and sometimes disallowed -- by the Internal Revenue Service. 
 The I.R.S. makes sure the bond proceeds are used for legitimate government works, like roads and schools. The interest on municipal bonds is tax-exempt, which amounts to a federal subsidy of about $35 billion a year. The money is not supposed to serve as a source of work and fees for money managers, who could otherwise make an easy profit by investing proceeds at the generally higher rates on taxable investments. 
 Yet records show that in dozens of bond deals, that is exactly what happened. The public works were not carried out -- but CDR and other intermediaries earned fees and sometimes broke the investment rules. 
 In Gulf Breeze, Fla., for example, a local housing authority issued bonds worth $220 million to provide homes for low-income families -- then spent not a penny on housing. The funds sat untouched in an account, except for about $12 million that was used to pay CDR and other financial companies. The I.R.S. uncovered that Mr. Rubin's firm stood to earn more if the money was unused.
 In Arkansas, Pulaski County issued $43 million of bonds to buy houses for sale to people with impaired credit. Half a dozen firms, including CDR, collected fees on the deal, and one Arkansas family was introduced by President George W. Bush at a White House conference.
 ''This project is not only good for the soul of the country,'' Mr. Bush said, citing the broad economic ripple effects of home ownership, as reported by The Associated Press. ''It's good for the pocketbook of the country as well.'' 
 But back in Arkansas, the pocketbook benefits went to the financial intermediaries, while would-be homeowners like the family hailed by the president walked away. A bank, Societe Generale, collected $1.9 million and in turn paid CDR quarterly fees of $16,125. 
 Only a small fraction was ever spent on housing, according to Patricia Dicker, a county official who called the bond deal terrible.
 A spokesman for Societe Generale said the bank had no comment. 
 Mr. Ripp said the quarterly payments were royalties for a type of derivative that CDR created. ''CDR had a very specific role that it fulfilled, and believes it fulfilled it very well,'' he said. 
 The I.R.S. challenged the bonds' tax exemption, accused Societe Generale of breaking the investment rules and questioned the bank's relationship with CDR, forcing a settlement.
 When challenged by the I.R.S., a local government typically hires lawyers and works out a settlement, sometimes quietly paying restitution. That protects the buyers of the bonds from having to pay tax on their interest. It also keeps the problems quiet since the I.R.S. is generally barred from discussing tax cases. 
 ''If this had been visible to the marketplace, we wouldn't have had these problems,'' said Mr. Taylor, the former rule maker. 
 The I.R.S. has disallowed at least seven housing bond deals that were assisted by CDR, in Florida, California, Virginia, Oklahoma, Arkansas and North Dakota, according to notices filed in a municipal data base. 
 There were even problems in New Mexico. The year before the transportation bonds were sold, the firm helped a regional housing authority there issue bonds that were later stripped of their tax exemption by the I.R.S., which found an improper relationship between CDR and Societe Generale. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission tried to impose sanctions on CDR, to little effect. After the Gulf Breeze debacle, it issued a cease-and-desist order. But CDR reports a spotless disciplinary history in its S.E.C. registration. Its offices were raided by the F.B.I. in 2006, though the government has not disclosed what it found.
 By the time of the raid, a new type of deal had come into vogue: municipal bonds linkedto swaps. These deals posed much greater risks than the real estate bonds and were more profitable for dealers. 
 In Philadelphia, CDR became the city's ''swap adviser'' after Mr. Rubin contributed tens of thousands of dollars to officials. The Philadelphia city treasurer, Corey Kemp, was indicted in 2004 on charges of receiving gifts and favors from companies vying for city business -- including CDR. 
 Mr. Kemp went to prison; CDR was not charged with wrongdoing. The firm remained Philadelphia's swap adviser for three more years.
 It went on to help the city-owned gas utility with a swap, earning $225,000. The swap protected against interest rate increases while allowing the utility to issue variable-rate bonds, which are less expensive.
 But the deal foundered during last year's market turmoil. JPMorgan Chase took over the bonds, shortening their life to five years, from 25. Now Philadelphia has to come up with $60 million a year and pay about $45 million to get out of the swap contract.
 Low on cash, the city utility has raised its customers' heating bills this winter. 
 Mr. Ripp said CDR had played a narrow role. ''To point the finger at CDR -- and suggest that they're culpable in creating a transaction that benefited no one -- is misguided,'' he said. 
 Rob Dubow, Philadelphia's finance director, said he could not explain why the city kept working with CDR after the corruption trial. ''Clearly,'' he said, ''it has not turned out well for us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A $1.6 billion transportation bond issue is under investigation in New Mexico.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
David Rubin, in a 2005 photo on a Los Angeles Web site.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HACLA)
 Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico withdrew from consideration for President Obama's cabinet because of a bond inquiry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG FRITZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (71%); POLITICS (71%); BOND ISSUES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BALLARD SPAHR LLP (84%); BANK OF ALBUQUERQUE NA (50%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



693 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Obama Gains G.O.P. Support From Governors

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama must wish governors could vote in Congress: While just three of the 219 Republican lawmakers backed the $787 billion economic recovery plan that he is signing into law on Tuesday, that trifling total would have been several times greater if support among the 22 Republican state executives counted.
 The contrast reflects the two faces of the Republican Party these days.
 Leaderless after losing the White House, the party is mostly defined by its Congressional wing, which flaunted its anti-spending ideology in opposing the stimulus package. That militancy drew the mockery of late-night television comics, but the praise of conservative talk-show stars and the party faithful. 
 In the states, meanwhile, many Republican governors are practicing a pragmatic -- their Congressional counterparts would say less-principled -- conservatism.
 Governors, unlike members of Congress, have to balance their budgets each year. And that requires compromise with state legislators, including Democrats, as well as more openness to the occasional state tax increase and to deficit-spending from Washington. 
 Across the country, from California's Arnold Schwarzenegger to Florida's Charlie Crist and New England's Jim Douglas in Vermont and M. Jodi Rell in Connecticut, Republican governors showed in the stimulus debate that they could be allies with Mr. Obama even as Congressional Republicans spurned him.
 ''It really is a matter of perspective,'' Mr. Crist said in an interview. ''As a governor, the pragmatism that you have to exercise because of the constitutional obligation to balance your budget is a very compelling pull'' generally. 
 With Florida facing a projected $5 billion shortfall in a $66 billion budget, and social costs rising, the stimulus package ''helps plug that hole,'' Mr. Crist said, ''but it also helps us meet the needs of the people in a very difficult economic time.''
 Mr. Obama's two-year stimulus package includes more than $135 billion for states, to help them pay for education, Medicaid and infrastructure projects. Yet even that sum would cover less than half of the total budget deficits the states will face through 2010, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research and advocacy organization. 
 The states' reliance on the federal government in times of distress will be showcased this weekend, when the governors come to Washington for their annual winter meeting. Their focus will be on infrastructure needs and home foreclosures.
 The disconnect between Republican members of Congress and governors recalls the mid-1990s, when Republicans took control of both the House and Senate for the first time in 40 years. After an initial public show of being partners in a ''Republican revolution,'' the partnership all but dissolved when governors strongly objected as the more dogmatic conservatives in Congress tried to cut domestic programs and then shut down the federal government in an unsuccessful showdown with President Bill Clinton. 
 Recently, Governors Schwarzenegger, Crist, Douglas and Rell joined 14 Democratic governors in signing a letter to Mr. Obama lauding his economic plan. Other Republicans would have signed on, said a person familiar with the letter's drafting, but for party pressure in their states.
 The National Governors Association sent a bipartisan letter of support to Congressional leaders of both parties, signed by its Democratic chairman, Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Douglas, its Republican vice chairman. ''The combination of funds for Medicaid, education and other essential services is critical for governors as they work to manage the downturn in their states and improve government for the long term,'' it said.
 Mr. Crist even campaigned last week with Mr. Obama in Florida for the recovery package. 
 ''Whether it's teachers or people on road crews helping our infrastructure, those in the health care arena as it might relate to Medicaid, all of these areas are important, all of them can produce jobs,'' Mr. Crist said, adding, ''Regardless of what your party is, Republican or Democrat, it really doesn't matter. We have a duty and an obligation to the people who elected us, no matter what our position happens to be, to work together to get through this thing.''
 Yet all 16 of Florida's Republicans in Congress voted against the package. Representative Cliff Stearns condemned it during the final debate as an ''unprecedented big-government grab for citizen reliance on the federal government.'' Joe Scarborough, a former Republican congressman from Florida, called the bill ''a steaming pile of garbage'' on his cable television talk show. 
 The House Republican leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, angrily dumped the 1,073-page bill to the floor during debate. In the Senate, John McCain of Arizona called it ''nothing less than generational theft.'' And Republicans in both chambers derided what they described, often misleadingly, as pork spending for the likes of marsh mouse preservation.
 Many projects, however, reflected the job-creation wish lists that governors had sent in. 
 Utah's Republican governor, Jon Huntsman Jr. sought up to $14.4 billion for roads, rail and sewer projects and for construction of a prison, courthouses and veterans' nursing homes. Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama, another Republican, came to Washington to discuss transportation projects with his state's Congressional delegation. ''He's going to make sure Alabama doesn't miss out on the money we're entitled to,'' a spokesman said.
 Mr. Obama began courting the governors before taking office. He invited them to Independence Hall in Philadelphia in December to discuss the economic challenges. Nearly all accepted.
 In his opening remarks, Mr. Obama had ''a special word'' for the Republicans: ''I offer you the same hand of friendship and cooperation that I offer our Democratic governors.'' He deferred to Mr. Douglas, the Vermont Republican, to steer the discussion. 
 Privately, Republicans favorably contrasted Mr. Obama with the outgoing Republican president, George W. Bush, according to two participants.
 Though Mr. Bush had been a governor -- in good economic times -- his relations with state executives were distant at best. Amid a downturn early in the decade, he unsuccessfully opposed $20 billion for the states. Last fall, he resisted some Republicans' pleas for aid.
 Mr. Douglas in January sought a meeting with the new administration at the White House office that is a liaison to governors. Instead, he got an Oval Office meeting with Mr. Obama. 
 When reporters briefly came in -- the two men flanked the fireplace just as presidents and foreign heads of state typically do -- Mr. Douglas praised Mr. Obama for his leadership. The stimulus bill ''might be a little different'' if he had written it, the Republican said. ''But the essence of a recovery package is essential to get our nation's economy moving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Backing the stimulus were governors like, clockwise from top left, Jim Douglas of Vermont, with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, both Democrats
M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut
Arnold Schwarzenegger of California
and Charlie Crist of Florida. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS
STEVE YEATER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); MEDICAID (72%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); FORECLOSURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHARLIE CRIST (89%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (74%); M JODI RELL (73%); ED RENDELL (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



694 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: 'Friday the 13th' Lasts All Weekend at the Box Office

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Moviegoers are finding everything but cold, hard reality to their liking these days. Riding a powerful surge in movie attendance over the last two months, the horror film ''Friday the 13th'' led the box office with $45.2 million in ticket sales over a long Presidents' Day weekend that proved to be Hollywood's best so far this year.
 In the four-day period that began Friday, total domestic box-office sales were about $223 million, far outstripping the $165.9 million in total ticket sales for the same period last year, according to Media by Numbers, a box-office consulting service. The previous record for a Presidents' Day weekend was set in 2007, when there was $186.6 million in total sales for the period. 
 For the first seven weeks of the year, total United States box- office revenue was roughly $1.5 billion, up by nearly 23 percent compared with the same period in 2008. Perhaps even more important, attendance -- which had flagged in the past few years -- has risen by about 21 percent. 
 The surge appears to validate conventional Hollywood wisdom that says people flock to movies in a down economy. 
 ''The movie business is still the cheapest form of entertainment in the marketplace today,'' said Dan Fellman, theatrical distribution president of Warner Brothers, which distributed both ''Friday the 13th'' and ''He's Just Not That Into You,'' the weekend's second-ranked film. ''He's Just Not That Into You,'' a romantic ensemble comedy starring Jennifer Aniston, Scarlett Johansson and others, had $23.4 million in ticket sales, for a total of $58.8 million since opening on Feb. 6. 
 Only one weekend since the beginning of the year has failed to beat the previous year's performance. The upswing, if it continues into the summer, would be good news for the studios, as their biggest cash cow, DVD sales, has begun to shrink after years of growth. The box-office bonanza might spark stronger DVD sales, because hits in the theaters tend to become hits in the home market as well.
 The film industry's strong performance began during the Christmas holiday period, with strong sales for pictures like the comedy ''Marley & Me,'' with Ms. Aniston and Owen Wilson, and the drama ''Gran Torino,'' with Clint Eastwood.
 ''Gran Torino,'' with $7.6 million in ticket sales for the Presidents' Day weekend, has taken in $129.7 million so far. Mr. Fellman said he expected total box-office sales for that film to approach $150 million.
 ''Taken,'' a thriller from 20th Century Fox, was the weekend's third-ranked film, with $22.2 million in ticket sales for the four days and $80.9 million since opening on Jan. 30.
 ''Coraline,'' a 3-D stop-motion film from Focus Features, was fourth, with $19.1 million in sales, and $39.4 million since it opened on Feb. 6. ''Confessions of a Shopaholic,'' a comedy from Walt Disney's Touchstone unit, ranked fifth, with $17.3 million in sales for the four days. 
 The biggest disappointment of the weekend was ''The International,'' starring Clive Owen and Naomi Watts, which made just $10.7 million. Perhaps a movie about the villainy of banks hit a bit too close to home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Willa Ford in ''Friday the 13th,'' the box-office hit of the Presidents' Day weekend with $45.2 million in ticket sales.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)
 Clint Eastwood, the director and star of ''Gran Torino.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTHONY MICHAEL RIVETTI/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (93%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE THEATERS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (79%); HORROR FILMS (79%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); THEATER (58%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (58%); SCARLETT JOHANSSON (58%); JENNIFER ANISTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



695 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Saying Small Nations Count, Czechs Seek an Obama Visit

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
Czech officials are pushing hard for President Obama to come to Prague early in April to meet the 27 leaders of the European Union, of which the Czech Republic currently holds the presidency.
 The visit, Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg said, would be important to every smaller country in the European Union. 
 ''It's our impression that the new administration doesn't just care about the fat cats -- Germany, France and Britain -- but they care about the small countries, too,'' Mr. Schwarzenberg said in an interview. ''It's important that the United States also do this in a country that 20 years ago belonged to the Soviet pact.'' 
 Mr. Obama, who in Europe is viewed as something akin to a rock star, will make his first trans-Atlantic visit as president in early spring, when he goes to London for a summit meeting on April 2 of the Group of 20 large industrialized countries, a session intended to discuss overhauling the global financial system and coping with a nearly worldwide recession.
 On April 3 and 4, Mr. Obama will be in Strasbourg, France, and two towns in Germany -- Kehl and Baden-Baden -- for a NATO summit meeting marking the alliance's 60th anniversary. 
 That meeting, of which France and Germany are co-hosts, is also expected to mark France's full reintegration into the military side of the alliance, more than 40 years after Charles de Gaulle quit the joint military command and kicked NATO out of Paris.
 That means Mr. Obama will have visited the main ''troika'' of the European Union -- Britain, France and Germany -- and met with the countries' leaders. 
 The Czech Republic -- a country of 10 million people that has been struggling to hold the European Union together under the pressure of the economic crisis and a continuing spat with the previous holder of the presidency, France -- very much wants Mr. Obama to then come to Prague to meet European leaders, instead of doing it in the European Union's bureaucratic capital, Brussels.
 ''There should also be a message from Washington that the United States also takes care of smaller and medium-size countries,'' said Alexandr Vondra, a former Czech ambassador to Washington and currently deputy prime minister for European affairs.
 Mr. Schwarzenberg pressed that argument in Washington this month. The Obama administration has been encouraging but noncommittal so far, the Czechs say. It is likely that Mr. Obama, with a particularly large domestic agenda, does not want to spend too much time in Europe, where he might be accused of sightseeing or of neglecting the larger problems of America.
 Mr. Schwarzenberg also argues that an Obama visit to Prague would be an important message to Moscow, which has refused to withdraw its forces from the Georgian territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. 
 The Czechs and the Poles have been willing to accept an early-warning radar and interception system against Iranian missiles, which the Russians object to. 
 The Russians continue to view the Czech Republic and Poland as part of Eastern Europe, not Central Europe, Mr. Schwarzenberg said, adding, ''It's clear in their heads that we are in the eastern zone.''
 That is the kind of ''old thinking that we shouldn't miss,'' he said, and that an Obama visit could counter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) CZECH REPUBLIC (98%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); BELGIUM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



696 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Obama Plan On Housing Said to Push On Lenders

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's plan to reduce the flood of home foreclosures will include a mix of government inducements and new pressure on lenders to reduce monthly payments for borrowers at risk of losing their houses, according to people knowledgeable about the administration's thinking.
 The plan, to be announced Wednesday, is expected to include government subsidies for reducing a borrower's interest rate, which a lender would have to match with its own money. 
 But officials cautioned that subsidies for lower interest rates would not in themselves help many troubled homeowners, because lenders were still likely to view many of those borrowers as bad risks and refuse to restructure their loans. As a result, they have been casting about for sticks as well as carrots to persuade the lenders to take part.
 Exactly what kind of pressure Mr. Obama would bring to bear remains unclear. One possibility is a stepped-up effort to enact legislation that would give bankruptcy judges new power to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower's payments. 
 That change, sometimes described as a mortgage ''cram-down,'' would greatly increase the bargaining power of borrowers in negotiating new loan terms with their lenders. The banking industry has vehemently opposed it, warning that investors will stop financing mortgages if they know that a judge can unilaterally change the terms at a later date.
 But Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress support the change, and Democratic lawmakers had already been planning to attach such a measure to a catch-all spending bill that Congress will soon have to pass to keep the government running.
 Administration officials refused to say on Monday exactly what carrots and sticks they intended to invoke as part of their plan. But Mr. Obama's top advisers are keenly aware that a long series of voluntary loan-modification programs, championed by the Bush administration, made no dent in the flood of foreclosures that began in 2007.
 By the end of 2008, slightly more than 9 percent of all mortgages in the United States were either delinquent or in foreclosure, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The number of loans in foreclosure hit a new record of 2.3 million last year, more than double the volume in 2006, and industry analysts estimate that it will hit at least 3 million in 2009 in the absence of a government rescue.
 The plan to subsidize lower interest rates for distressed homeowners would involve the government and the lender each contributing matching amounts to reduce a person's monthly payment, possibly by several hundred dollars a month.
 Supporters contend that the measure will be comparatively simple to execute and less expensive than many other options that have been considered. Mr. Obama's top advisers have vowed to spend at least $50 billion to help homeowners keep their houses, and they already have the authority to tap the remaining $350 billion in the Treasury Department's financial industry bailout fund.
 ''I think it is going to have far more effect on the mortgage servicers and the bondholders than previous proposals,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''It's going to have both carrots and sticks.''
 One of the biggest headaches in modifying mortgages has been the fact that most loans were bundled into pools, which were then resold as mortgage-backed securities. Mortgage servicers, third-party companies, collect the monthly payments and take action against delinquent borrowers. These companies remain nervous that bondholders will sue them if they make overly generous concessions. 
 While stumping for his economic stimulus plan last week in Elkhart, Ind., Mr. Obama renewed his call for legislation that would authorize bankruptcy judges to reduce mortgage payments and said he hoped to make the idea ''part of our housing package.''
 ''It turns out you can't modify that mortgage if you're in bankruptcy,'' the president told residents. ''Now that makes no sense. What that's doing is, it's forcing a lot of people into foreclosure who potentially would be better off, and the bank would be better off and the community would be better off, if they're at least making some payments.''
 White House officials are likely to release a comprehensive plan on home foreclosures, determined to avoid a repeat of the drubbing that the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, received last week when he released only the outlines of a plan to rescue the nation's banks, leaving the most important elements to be decided later.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will go to Phoenix to outline the plan for rescuing homeowners. He is expected to supply concrete details as well as a timetable for getting the plan off the ground.
 But Mr. Obama will be running the risk of angering vast numbers of homeowners, both those at risk of losing their homes and the tens of millions more who are current on their payments and bitterly resent the government bailing out those who borrowed more than they could afford. 
 ''This puts the whole moral-hazard issue front and center,'' said Howard Glaser, a former Clinton administration official and now a financial consultant. 
 ''This is the equivalent of having the government write a check to both the borrowers and the banks, who both made bad decisions,'' he said. ''But if you are going to do something, regardless of the mechanism, you are going to have to cross the Rubicon to direct federal assistance. It's a sign of how very few options are left.''
 For all the political hazards of bailing out people who made bad decisions, many economists say the government needs to attack foreclosures if it wants to turn around the economy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vowing to fight eviction, Frank Torres barricaded himself in his foreclosed house in Carson, Calif., for several hours last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD GRAVERSON/THE DAILY BREEZE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); JUDGES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); APPROPRIATIONS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



697 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: In a World Not Wholly Cooperative, Obama's Top Economist Makes Do

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has a few nicknames for Lawrence H. Summers, the brash and brainy former Harvard president who, as chief White House economic adviser, is guiding him through treacherous terrain. 
 Sometimes, during the 30-minute briefings that Mr. Summers delivers in the Oval Office nearly every day, Mr. Obama addresses him as Professor, as in, ''What do you think, Professor Summers?'' Sometimes, as he did in the Roosevelt Room one recent afternoon, Mr. Obama tweaks him and his fellow policy wonks, dubbing them ''the propeller-heads.'' 
 This, senior White House officials say, is the president's way of ribbing Mr. Summers, who is back in Washington -- he served as Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton -- in the role of what his new boss calls a ''thought leader.''
 But in the first month of the Obama administration, Mr. Summers's thoughts have gotten the White House only so far. 
 His finely honed theories about how to bring the nation back from the brink have collided with messy realities of Capitol Hill and Wall Street. The president's immense economic recovery package, 21st-century New Deal legislation that Mr. Summers helped write and shepherd through the House, was ripped up in the Senate, where bipartisan negotiators cut the big-time economist out of their deal-making.
 And the markets panned the bank bailout plan unveiled by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, a Summers protege whose appointment has given rise to Washington cocktail conversation about whether the two will emerge as rivals. (Both dismiss the idea; Mr. Geithner says they are so close that ''we can finish each other's sentences.'')
 ''Politics are hard to predict,'' Mr. Summers said the other day, summing up what had been a rocky week. He said he was already on to the next big thing: helping Mr. Geithner and Shaun Donovan, the new housing secretary, draft the housing plan that Mr. Obama intends to announce in Phoenix on Wednesday.
 He said the $787 billion stimulus bill that emerged from Congress, while not perfect, was ''a huge achievement in a very short time.'' As to whether he backed Mr. Geithner's decision to introduce the bank bailout plan before arriving at specifics, Mr. Summers, well schooled in Washington's ways, invoked newspaper slang for behind-the-scenes tales.
 ''I just don't do ticktock,'' he said flatly.
 Mr. Summers, as many in Washington know, did not arrive without baggage; his Harvard presidency ended in forced resignation in 2006 amid concerns over his brusque management style. So when Mr. Obama picked Mr. Geithner, a former Summers deputy at the Treasury, to run the department and installed Mr. Summers in the lower-profile job of directing the National Economic Council, some wondered if they could coexist.
 Asked about the balance of power between them, Mr. Geithner told the story of having gotten his last job, the presidency of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, because Peter G. Peterson, then the bank's chairman, saw him as the one who had been ''willing to say no to Larry Summers.''
 Yet, Mr. Geithner said, he finds it ''terrifically important, helpful and reassuring'' to have Mr. Summers just across the way at the White House, ''doing what he does best, which is to help you think through something, and judgments that you can save yourself from.''
 Mr. Obama has assigned the two to oversee the auto industry overhaul. And while Congress ultimately imposed stricter limits than the administration wanted on compensation for executives of financial institutions taking bailout money, colleagues say Mr. Summers stood by Mr. Geithner during an Oval Office debate on the matter.
 ''Larry jumped right in,'' said one participant, adding that Mr. Summers ''was able to define the issue clearly enough and quickly enough for the president to immediately agree'' with Mr. Geithner.
 Mr. Summers, 54, cuts a rumpled figure inside the Obama White House. ''I don't think any of us are going to be emulating Larry's ties,'' said Robert Gibbs, the president's press secretary.
 In his spare wood-paneled corner office on the second floor of the West Wing, he sometimes seems to be doing a hundred things at once: zipping off to Capitol Hill at a moment's notice, brushing up on policy in matters as varied as health technology and digital television, holding midnight conference calls to noodle around ideas he does not have time to think about during the day.
 He is also assembling a brain trust of hotshot economists to expand his reach into every realm of policy making, from housing to agriculture. If Mr. Geithner's portfolio is finance, Mr. Summers's, it seems, is everything else. As Martin Feldstein, a fellow Harvard economist close to Mr. Summers, put it, ''Everything is on Larry's plate.''
 During an interview in the Roosevelt Room, he absent-mindedly flicked his fingers on the couch. He said he had been reading up on the Great Depression, adding that ''the thing I worry about most is making sure we do as much as we can as soon as we can'' to avoid another one. Asked teasingly how he was going to save the world, he paused, as if to keep himself from saying something he might regret.
 ''The president,'' he finally allowed, in adherence to the Washington rule of giving credit to the boss, ''has got what I think is the right economic plan.''
 The caution is calculated. Mindful of his reputation as an intellectual bulldozer, Mr. Summers is working hard to rein himself in. He parses his words and takes pains to share the face time he has with the president. On the day this month when dismal unemployment numbers came in, he did not present them to Mr. Obama himself, instead asking Christina Romer, the chief economics forecaster, to do the talking.
 ''The striking thing about Larry,'' said Ms. Romer, who has known him since her days as a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ''is that to the degree there were rough edges, they are not there now.''
 Yet sometimes Mr. Summers cannot seem to help himself, and he winds up with a reminder that while he may be the professor, Mr. Obama is the department chairman. During one recent meeting with the president, Mr. Summers sensed that the conversation was not going his way. Gingerly, he pressed his case.
 ''He said, 'Now, I don't want to overpress this point,' '' recalled one senior official, recounting the exchange on condition of anonymity. ''And the president said: 'Yes, you do, Larry. You absolutely do.' ''
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Summers is busy repairing his image from the Clinton years, when many lawmakers felt that he treated them mostly as an annoyance. When Speaker Nancy Pelosi called him at the dinner hour on one recent evening, he ''dropped everything,'' a senior aide said, to rush to the Capitol, where he got an earful from House Democratic leaders irate over the Senate's handling of the stimulus bill.
 ''He's been in listening mode, not lecturing mode,'' said one Democratic lawmaker, Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who was there. 
 Senior White House officials say Mr. Summers was crucial in helping to get the legislation enacted. His efforts have drawn howls, though, from both the left and the right. Conservatives, upset over long-term spending, accuse him of abandoning his quest for a package that was ''timely, targeted and temporary,'' although with the financial picture worsening he is using a fresh alliteration: ''speedy, substantial and sustained.'' Liberals, meanwhile, say the bill is too tepid.
 And given his experience with the Asian financial crisis of the 1990s, some economists wonder how he could have signed off on a bailout plan that did not force banks to admit that they were insolvent.
 ''The irony is that Summers and Geithner wrote the textbook on how to manage these crises, and they lectured countries all over the world on what to do,'' said Adam S. Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, lamenting that they did not ''follow through with their own prescriptions.''
 Mr. Summers dismissed the criticism, maintaining that the bailout plan, for which he said Mr. Geithner would announce details in due time, was ''tough and ambitious.''
 In the meantime, Mr. Obama's chief propeller-head is on to other matters, like housing and huddling in the Roosevelt Room to plan the budget with the president, as he did on Friday, when Peter R. Orszag, the White House budget director, passed out propeller-head hats.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rocky week behind him, Lawrence H. Summers said simply, ''Politics are hard to predict.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (73%); BANK FAILURES (64%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



698 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Obama Riding The Wave

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Listening to President Obama, I was struck by how well he understands that most voters are not driven by ideology and are not searching for politically orthodox leadership. Most want leaders who speak to their needs -- especially in this time of economic crisis -- and a government that works.
 Republicans in Congress -- all but completely united in their effort to build a wall of obstruction in the path of President Obama's economic revitalization effort -- seem to be missing this essential point. 
 In a conversation with a small group of columnists aboard Air Force One on Friday, the president discussed the fight over his stimulus package, which was in the process of gaining final passage as he flew from Washington to Chicago for a brief rest with his family. 
 He said that the fact that he'd been rebuffed so far in his quest for bipartisanship would not stop him from reaching out for Republican support.
 ''Going forward,'' he said, ''each and every time we've got an initiative, I'm going to go to both Democrats and Republicans and I'm going to say, 'Here's my best argument for why we need to do this. I want to listen to your counterarguments. If you've got better ideas, present them. We will incorporate them into any plans that we make, and we are willing to compromise on certain issues that are important to one side or the other in order to get stuff done.' ''
 When I asked him if there was any reason to believe that the G.O.P. had made a good-faith effort at bipartisanship, given the fact that only three Republicans voted for the stimulus plan in the Senate and none in the House, he said he did not want to question the motives or sincerity of those who opposed the plan.
 But he made a point of adding, ''Now, I have to say that given that they were running the show for a pretty long time prior to me getting there, and that their theory was tested pretty thoroughly and it's landed us in the situation where we've got over a trillion-dollars' worth of debt and the biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression, I think I have a better argument in terms of economic thinking.''
 He also made it clear that he won't let his desire for bipartisanship undermine important initiatives. ''I'm an eternal optimist,'' he said. ''That doesn't mean I'm a sap.'' 
 Mr. Obama's tone and demeanor during the nearly hourlong interview was a duplicate of his nationally televised press conference last week. 
 He was relaxed and had complete command of a range of complex issues, including the troubled banking sector, health care reform and the need to do more in terms of innovative education initiatives. 
 But beyond his specific policies (and whether one supports them or not), Mr. Obama is emerging as the very model of the type of person one would want in high public office. He is intelligent, mature, thoughtful, calm in the face of crises and, if the nation is lucky, maybe even wise. 
 When asked about the sharp drop in the stock markets after Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner announced an expanded bank bailout plan last week, Mr. Obama replied:
 ''I am not planning based on a one-day market reaction. In fact, you can argue that a lot of the problems we're in have to do with everybody planning based on one-day market reactions, or three-month market reactions, and as a consequence nobody was taking the long view.
 ''My job is to help the country take the long view -- to make sure that not only are we getting out of this immediate fix, but we're not repeating the same cycle of bubble and bust over and over again; that we're not having the same energy conversation 30 years from now that we had 30 years ago; that we're not talking about the state of our schools in the exact same ways we were talking about them in the 1980s; and that at some point we say, 'You know what? If we're spending more money per-capita on health care than any nation on earth, then you'd think everybody would have coverage and we would see lower costs for average consumers, and we'd have better outcomes.' ''
 Near the end of the interview, the president said that there are certain moments in history when significant change is possible. 
 ''It's not a certainty,'' he said, ''but it's possible.''
 He said he believed that it's very difficult for any single individual to actually set that kind of ''momentum'' for change in motion. But when that historical wave is there, he said, ''I think you can help guide it.''
 When asked if we are in one of those moments now, he said, ''Yes. I firmly believe that.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); WRITERS (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



699 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: California, Nearly Broke, Edges Nearer Brink

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The state of California -- its deficits ballooning, its lawmakers intransigent and its governor apparently bereft of allies or influence -- appears headed off the fiscal rails. 
 Since the fall, when lawmakers began trying to attack the gaps in the $143 billion budget that their earlier plan had not addressed, the state has fallen into deeper financial straits, with more bad news coming daily from Sacramento. The state, nearly out of cash, has laid off scores of workers and put hundreds more on unpaid furloughs. It has stopped paying counties and issuing income tax refunds and halted thousands of infrastructure projects. 
 Twenty-thousand layoff notices will go out on Tuesday morning, Matt David, the communications director for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, said Monday night. ''In the absence of a budget we need to realize this savings and the process takes six months,'' Mr. David said. 
 After negotiating nonstop from Saturday afternoon until late Sunday night on a series of budget bills that would have closed a projected $41 billion deficit, state lawmakers failed to get enough votes to close the deal and adjourned. They returned to the Capitol on Monday morning and labored into the evening but still failed to reach a deal. They planned to reconvene at 10 a.m. Tuesday to go at it again. 
 California has also lost access to much of the credit markets, nearly unheard of among state municipal bond issuers. Recently, Standard & Poor's downgraded the state's bond rating to the lowest in the nation. 
 California's woes will almost certainly leave a jagged fiscal scar on the nation's most populous state, an outgrowth of the financial triptych of above-average unemployment, high foreclosure rates and plummeting tax revenues, and the state's unusual budgeting practices.
 ''No other state is in the kind of crisis that California is in,'' said Iris J. Lav, the deputy director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington.
 The roots of California's inability to address its budget woes are statutory and political. The state, unlike most others, requires a two-thirds majority vote in the Legislature to pass budgets and tax increases. And its process for creating voter initiatives hamstrings the budget process by directing money for some programs while depriving others of cash.
 In a Legislature dominated by Democrats, some of whom lean far to the left, leaders have been unable to gather enough support from Republican lawmakers, who tend on average to be more conservative than the majority of California's Republican voters and have unequivocally opposed all tax increases. 
 And then there is Governor Schwarzenegger, whose budget woes far outweigh those of his predecessor, Gray Davis, whom he drummed from office in a 2003 recall that stemmed from the state's fiscal problems at the time. The governor has failed to muster votes among lawmakers in his own party, whom he often opposes on ideological grounds, resulting in more scorn from Democrats.
 Furthermore, Republican leaders in the Senate and the Assembly who have agreed to get on board with a plan have been unable to persuade a few key lawmakers to join them. The package needs at least three Republican votes in each house, to join with the 51 Democrats in the Assembly and the 24 Democrats in the Senate. 
 For months Republicans have vowed not to raise taxes, which in California means no increase in either the sales, gas or personal income tax.
 ''It is a dramatic time,'' said Darrell Steinberg, the State Senate's president pro tempore. ''The solvency of the state is on the line. It is really quite a system where the fate of the state rests upon the shoulders of a couple of members of a minority party. The system frankly needs to be changed.''
 In the meantime, drivers are met with ''closed'' signs at Department of Motor Vehicles offices two days a month, environmental programs are left unattended, piles of dirt mark where highway lanes are to be built to ease the state's infamous traffic congestion, school systems mull layoffs and counties prepare to sue the state for nonpayment of bills.
 Last week, Mr. Schwarzenegger and the four legislative leaders concurred on a series of bills that included $15.1 billion in budget cuts, $14.4 billion in tax increases and $11.4 billion in borrowing, much of it subject to voter approval. 
 The Senate Republican leader, Dave Cogdill, said he thought he had all the votes needed to get the deal done in each house. But on Sunday, two Republican senators -- Dave Cox, who was originally thought to be the last vote needed, and Abel Maldonado, whom Mr. Schwarzenegger had been able to woo into voting against his party in the past -- said they would reject the plan.
 Democrats, who had already given into Republicans' long-held dreams of large tax cuts for small businesses and for some of the entertainment industry and a proposed $10,000 tax break for first-time home buyers, balked at Mr. Maldonado's request that the Legislature tuck a bill into the package that would allow voters to cross party lines in primaries. 
 ''I think with an open primary, we would have good government that would do the people's work,'' Mr. Maldonado said.
 Sunday evening ended in frustration and exhaustion for lawmakers, who returned to work on Monday facing the state's uncertain future. 
 ''My boss will continue to work toward a responsible budget solution,'' said Mr. Cogdill's spokeswoman, Sabrina Lockhart. ''There are real risks and real consequences for not passing a budget.''
 Kansas in Budget Deadlock

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: California's budget woes have forced the cancellation of thousands of infrastructure projects, like this new bridge in Glendale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
Darrell Steinberg, left, the State Senate president pro tempore, conferring Monday with his Democratic colleagues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Republican senators reconvened Monday after negotiations over the weekend ended in the rejection of a budget deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BONDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INCOME TAX (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); LIBERALISM (66%); BOND ISSUES (64%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



700 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (MTV) DOGG AFTER DARKSnoop Dogg, above, moves into the interviewer's seat in this new talk and variety show headquartered at Kress, a Los Angeles hot spot on Hollywood Boulevard, and featuring celebrity interviews, comedy sketches and musical performances from guest artists and the Snoopadelics, the in-house band.
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW Madonna's personal trainer talks about working out. 
 10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAYGordon Ramsay tests viewers' recipes.
 8 P.M. (ABC) HOMELAND SECURITY USA A Turkish national trying to emigrate from New York to Canada faces the possibility of being separated indefinitely from his wife and child. Elsewhere, a police dog claws at the S.U.V. of a young family trying to cross from Mexico into Texas, and even veteran officers are shocked by what they discover.
 8 P.M. (CBS) NCIS Special agents Gibbs (Mark Harmon) and DiNozzo (Michael Weatherly, right) switch roles when a murder leads to the reopening of an old investigation.
 8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL The first 12 semifinalists perform in this two-hour episode, and viewer voting begins.
 9 P.M. (13); 10 P.M. (49) INSIDE THE MELTDOWN ''Frontline'' dissects the worst economic crisis in 70 years -- from the Bear Stearns deal and the collapse of Lehman Brothers to the rescue of AIG and the $700 billion bailout -- and examines why Henry M. Paulson Jr., the secretary of the Treasury, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, couldn't stop it from happening.
 9 P.M. (BBC America) LAST RESTAURANT STANDING The seven remaining teams are challenged to ''waste not'' by using every morsel of an organic pig -- from snout to tail -- in a variety of dishes.
 9 P.M. (CBS) THE MENTALIST Patrick Jane (Simon Baker) uncovers a community full of secrets, including love affairs and drug abuse, while investigating the poisoning death of a prominent socialite at her own cocktail party.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) DIRTY JOBS Mike Rowe undertakes his 200th dirty job: restoring locomotives in Boise, Idaho.
 9 P.M. (History) HOW THE EARTH WAS MADE Only two men have ever been down in the Marianas Trench, the deepest place on the planet, where the pressure is 17 times greater than what it takes to crush a nuclear submarine. This episode journeys into the abyss.
 9:30 P.M. (MTV) T. I.'S ROAD TO REDEMPTION With 38 days to go until his sentencing on weapons charges, the rapper T. I. stages an intervention with a teenage gang member in Atlanta. 
 10 P.M. (Bio) SHATNER'S RAW NERVEWilliam Shatner chats up Wayne Brady.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF ORANGE COUNTY The season ends with Jeana going on her first date since the breakup of her marriage and Lynne pressing her daughter to get a job. Then the housewives past and present have a party. Season 2 of ''The Real Housewives of New York City'' begins at 11 with a feud between Alex and Simon, on one side, and Jill, who dished dirt in an interview. It also presents the newest diva, Kelly Killoren Bensimon.
 10 P.M. (Discovery Health) DELIVER ME In this first episode after a hiatus, Roxanna, who has lost part of her leg to cancer, fights to keep herself -- and her baby -- healthy, while Mayda, a single mother, battles epilepsy while caring for her 2-year-old.
 10 P.M. (FX) NIP/TUCK Christian (Julian McMahon) and Sean (Dylan Walsh) reconstruct a severely disfigured man (Chi Muoi Lo), after which Sean hits on his new anesthesiologist (Katee Sackhoff).
 10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT After a repo man (Frank Grillo) is found beaten nearly to death outside a strip club, he has no memory of what happened, and his transgendered 13-year-old son (Bridger Zadina) becomes the prime suspect.
 10 P.M. (TLC) TODDLERS & TIARAS Little girls from across the country congregate in Salley, S.C., for the beauty pageant portion of the Chitlin' Strut, a festival celebrating fried pig intestines. 
 11 P.M. (TBS) 10 ITEMS OR LESS What aisle are the peace pipe and sweat lodge on? After Leslie (John Lehr) discovers that he has American Indian roots, he tries to give the store a makeover. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); MUSIC (73%); DOGS (73%); MURDER (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (69%); POISONINGS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); SENTENCING (63%); TRAINS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); HENRY PAULSON (56%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



701 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1991 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: February 17, 2009

 BODY:
International
 KHMER ROUGE FIGURE 
 Goes on Trial in Cambodia
 It has been 30 years since the Khmer Rouge was overthrown, leaving as much as a fourth of the Cambodian population dead, and the first trial has opened for a senior official of the regime. Guek Eav, 66, was the commandant of the Tuol Sleng prison and torture house that was responsible for sending at least 14,000 to their deaths in a killing field. Page A5 
 SCANDAL SHAPES DEBATE IN VATICAN
 Recent scandals involving the Vatican and Pope Benedict XVI's focus on doctrine and apparent lack of political sensitivity have added pressure to a debate within the church about whether he is alienating mainstream Catholics and undermining the church's authority. Page A5 
 CZECHS PUSH FOR OBAMA VISIT
 Czech officials are urging President Obama to visit Prague in early April and meet the leaders of the European Union. The country is currently serving as the union's president and its foreign minister said that the visit would be important to smaller countries in the union. Page A6 
 SUBMARINE COLLISION DISCLOSED
 Two submarines carrying nuclear weapons collided accidentally while on operational patrols in the Atlantic last month. The two vessels, one French and one British, returned unharmed with no compromise to nuclear safety, said a statement agreed upon by both nations. Page A6 
 SHANGHAI CLEARS FORMULA MAKER
 The Shanghai government said that an infant formula made by a French company was not contaminated with melamine, a toxin found in products of at least 22 Chinese dairy companies. Page A8 
 Harbin Journal 
 The Great Wall Eclipsed by Mickey
 Just south of Siberia lies Harbin, a region known for creating China's most popular wintertime attraction: the ice sculptures of the Harbin Ice Lantern Festival. But now, sculptures honoring cultural and historical icons will have to shuffle over for Donald Duck. Meet the new boss; it's a small world after all. Page A10 
 North Korea Threatens Missile Test A13 
 8 IRAQI PILGRIMS KILLED IN BAGHDAD
 Eight Iraqis, all of them Shiite pilgrims returning from the holy city of Karbala, were killed in two separate, but nearly identical, roadside bombings in Baghdad, officials and witnesses said. Page A13 
 National
 WEIGHING THE MERITS OF A COURT 
 Made Up Only of Ex-Judges
 At a recent speech, Chief Justice John Roberts said the Supreme Court's current composition -- each justice is a former federal appeals court judge -- has moved the court away from politics and policy toward a focus on sound legal reasoning. But is he right? And is a court comprised solely of former judges even preferable? Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A14
 SCIENCE GROUP BOYCOTTS LOUISIANA
 The Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology, a leading scientific group, said it would not hold its 2011 meeting in New Orleans and would boycott Louisiana because of a new state law that could open the door to teaching creationism in public schools. PAGE A14 
 Benefits for Filipino Veterans A20
 A BUMPY WASHINGTON RETURN
 Lawrence H. Summers, the brash and brainy former Harvard president and Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, is back in Washington as President Obama's economic adviser. But in the first month of the new administration, Mr. Summer's advice -- he helped write and shepherd the immense economic recovery package -- has gotten the White House only so far. PAGE A21
 LOOKING AT SECURITY RESPONSE
 Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, has ordered a review of the largest federal program for testing the country's ability to respond to terrorist attacks, which she sharply criticized as governor of Arizona. The directives implicitly raise questions about how well the Bush administration prepared the nation's defenses against a terrorist attack, but also reflect Ms. Napolitano's desire to apply her experiences as a border-state governor to homeland security policies. PAGE A22
 WAS THAT A FIREBALL IN THE SKY?
 The fireball that streaked across the Texas sky and appeared to dive toward earth over the weekend remained a mystery after the military said the event had nothing to do with a collision of satellites last week and did not seem to involve an artificial satellite's coming down. Local sheriffs dispatched patrol cars to look for debris, and government officials had determined only that the object was not an aircraft. PAGE A19 
 Obituaries
 LOUIS BELLSON, DRUMMER, 84
 He was a crisp and dazzling drummer who worked with many of the major figures of the swing era and a gracious entertainer who made frequent appearances at the White House and on ''The Tonight Show. Page B9 
 New York
 FROM THE MAYOR AND ELSEWHERE, CONEY ISLAND RENEWAL PLANS CLASH
 In the latest in a long line of efforts to revamp Coney Island, the Bloomberg administration recently introduced its plan to develop a year-round urban and entertainment destination. And in keeping with the waterfront's contentious history, a prominent civic organization and a developer have put forward competing visions of how to best preserve the soul and mythology of Coney Island. PAGE A27 
 A Staten Island Bodybuilder A27 
 ICING'S ROLE, IF ANY, IN PLANE CRASH
 Even if investigators determine that icing played a role in the crash on Friday of a twin-engine turboprop flying to Buffalo from Newark, it would be an insufficient answer. The plane had extensive anti-icing equipment, and the crew had training in winter operations. So will there be a clear answer? PAGE A28 
 Business
 WORKERS IN DETROIT'S CAR INDUSTRY CANNOT FIND COVER IN WHITE COLLAR
 After shedding blue-collar jobs by the thousands, Detroit's troubled Big Three are cutting white-collar jobs in their hometown at an unprecedented pace. And white-collar workers who leave the office for the last time discover that the market for their skills has largely evaporated. PAGE B1 
 A NICE STONE IN THE ROUGH
 The wrenching pace at which the economy has been spiraling downward may be slowing, slightly. Several economists have pointed to a handful of lesser-known indexes and indicators as signs of hope (or rather, a little less despair). PAGE B1 
 DEODORANT COMPANIES BUCK TREND
 Companies that make deodorant have managed to find a market in an otherwise rotten economy. Major brands are getting a bump in sales thanks to new, stronger ''clinical'' antiperspirants. PAGE B3 
 IN DEFENSE OF THE PLASTIC BAG
 From around the world they came to look at extruders and polymer additives, printing machines and blown film. And whenever they could, they railed against the world's unfair prejudice against the plastic bag. That's right, it's Plastindia 2009, a five-day ode to plastic in New Delhi. PAGE B3 
 Itineraries
 Business Meetings Declining
 According to a survey by Meeting Professionals International and American Express, 7 percent of business meetings scheduled for 2009 have been canceled. And, even for the meetings that survive, attendance is expected to be down about 5 percent. PAGE B6 
 On a DC-10 With the Prize Patrol B6 
 PUBLIC RAGE THUMPS BUSINESS JETS
 The business aircraft industry has been buffeted by bad publicity (remember executives from the Big Three car makers flying on their private jets to ask Congress for taxpayer money?). And, in an effort to cool populist rage over corporate jets, the industry has started arguing that corporate jets are crucial tools, not just abuse-prone symbols of wealth and excess. Page B6 
 European Markets Fall B8 
 Sports
 BUILDING A WINNER
 In a Basketball Backwater
 More than two decades after coaching Villanova to a stunning upset over Georgetown in the N.C.A.A. championship game, Rollie Massimino finds himself at the other end of the college basketball universe as the head coach of tinyNorthwood University in West Palm Beach, Fla. No frills and modest pay, perhaps, but it hasn't taken him very long to build a winner. PAGE B9
 FINDING A PURPOSE IN JUDO
 For more than two decades, Rusty Kanokogi lobbied to make women's judo part of the Olympic Games. Last year, she was recognized by Japan with the Order of the Rising Sun, its highest honor for a foreigner. Now 73, she looks back at her career and credits the sport for helping save her life. PAGE B10 
 JAPAN LOOKS FOR REDEMPTION
 Thousands turned out to see Japan hold its first workout for the World Baseball Classic. The country's fans and its baseball establishment have been eagerly anticipating the international tournament since its star-studded team failed to win a medal at the Beijing Olympics last summer. PAGE B13 
 UCONN FALLS TO PANTHERS, 76-68
 The Pittsburgh Panthers announced their arrival as a leading national title contender by taking a last minute win at the XL Center in Hartford, Conn., beating the top-ranked Huskies, 76-68. Page B9 
 NOT USING PETTITTE AS A TEMPLATE
 Alex Rodriguez is set to discuss his use of performance enhancing drugs at a news conference on Tuesday. His performance is expected to be much more controlled and condensed than Andy Pettitte's a year ago, in which Pettitte discussed using human growth hormone and fielded questions from reporters for over an hour. PAGE B13 
 Arts
 CHINA SAYS A DESIGNER'S BRONZES 
 Were Stolen From a Palace
 China wants the Christie's auction house to remove two Qing Dynasty bronze animal heads from its big sale of Yves Saint Laurent's vast collection next week, saying that the pieces were stolen from the Imperial Summer Palace near Beijing nearly 150 years ago. PAGE C1 
 TROUBLES FOLLOWED A BURST OF FAME
 When Estelle Bennett, one-third of the 1960s girl group the Ronettes, died last week at age 67, the hardships of her postfame life became public for the first time, surprising even the group's biggest fans. PAGE C1
 LURING STUDIOS TO PICK CALIFORNIA
 California lawmakers are debating a tax credit that proponents say would spur more location shooting in the state. But critics say instituting the credit would be hard to justify at a time of planned increases in the sales tax and other levies. Page C1
 A KILLER WEEKEND AT THE BOX OFFICE
 ''Friday the 13th'' topped the box office over the weekend as Americans flocked to theaters in search of inexpensive entertainment. So far this year, theater attendance is up 23 percent over the same period last year. PAGE c2
 Arts, Briefly C2
 STILL DIGGING WHAT'S BEEN DUG UP
 In 1907, the head of the London-based Gramophone Company sealed up some of the new flat-disc records his company was promoting and buried them in a vault beneath the Paris Opera. His instructions: Do not open for 100 years. That newly unsealed and restored music -- originally wrapped in asbestos-covered cloth -- is now being re-released, and many of the works placed in the time capsule have never gone out of vogue. PAGE C3
 Editorial
 DANGEROUS FOOD
 The more investigators look into the food-safety scandal involving the Peanut Corporation of America, the worse it gets. The latest revelation should persuade Congress and the Obama administration to finally make food safety a serious priority. Page A28
 THE TREASURES OF JOE BRUNO
 For Sale: One very sleek-looking GMC van w/leather seats, meeting table, luxuries galore. Nearly new. Purchased by New York taxpayers for $50,000 to transport Joseph Bruno, the former State Senate leader, now indicted. Ask for the Brunomobile by name. Page A28
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 President Obama talks about the Republicans, his stimulus package and history during an interview aboard Air Force One. Page A29
 DAVID BROOKS
 Urban planners dream of an America that looks a little more like Amsterdam. Well, Amsterdam is a wonderful city, but Americans never seem to want to live there. Page A29
 MY SAVIOR, THEIR KILLER
 The man who ran a notorious Khmer Rouge prison is set to go on trial for war crimes. In an Op-Ed article, Francois Bizot, one of his prisoners, reflects on his former captor, their relationship and Cambodia's haunted legacy. Page A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER/REUTERS
FROM LEFT, NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SCOTT WINTROW/GETTY IMAGES
 PETER FOLEY/EUROPEAN PHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); JUDGES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); BOYCOTTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SCANDALS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); APPEALS COURTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); JOHN ROBERTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (90%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (86%) CAMBODIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (90%); HOLY SEE (90%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



702 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Merger Scrutiny Expected to Rise

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
Wall Street, prepare for another headache: stepped-up antitrust enforcement. During the Bush years, mergers got a mostly free ride. Few deals were opposed by the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission, even when career lawyers at the enforcement agencies were champing at the bit to do so. Expect the Obama administration to unleash these frustrated bureaucrats.
The president has said he will take a more active approach than his predecessor in scrutinizing deals that could hurt consumers. And he has broad leeway to do so: he has appointed the new assistant attorney general for antitrust at the Justice Department and is expected to name three allies to the Federal Trade Commission. 
Increased merger scrutiny would come at an inopportune moment for Wall Street, which makes billions in fees from advising on mergers -- not to mention corporate America. Economic downturns tend to force executives to find ways to reduce costs. Merging with a rival, and reaping the synergies that come from eliminating duplicative functions, is a crucial component of any managers' recession-survival tool kit.
This type of horizontal merger gives cause for antitrust concern. For starters it creates greater market concentration, which has traditionally been the primary target of antitrust scrutiny. And it is axiomatic that the greater the overlap among companies' customers and suppliers, the greater the cost savings will be.
This raises another, more political, motive for heightened enforcement. By their very nature, big deals often result in large job losses. For example, Pfizer is expected to cut 19,000 jobs as part of its pending $68 billion takeover of Wyeth. This plays poorly in the populist, antibusiness climate of the moment.
To be clear, the government would be unlikely to try to stop a merger on the basis that it increases unemployment. Its powers to restrict deals -- apart from those that fall under the interests of national security -- are circumscribed by Section 7 of the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914, which forbids companies from transactions where the effect may be ''substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly.''
That's why many investors are skeptical that Sirius XM, the satellite radio broadcaster just bailed out by John C. Malone, could be acquired by the satellite television broadcaster owned by Mr. Malone, DirecTV. The merger of Sirius with XM itself created a monopoly in a deal challenged by many lawyers in the Justice Department. They were overruled by a Bush appointee, Tom Barnett, who ran the Justice Department's antitrust division.
It is also why a merger of Ticketmaster with Live Nation may wobble. While not a merger of two direct rivals, it is what merger wonks call a ''vertical'' deal because it unites the dominant retailer of entertainment tickets with one of the largest managers of artists and concert venues, potentially giving it outsize power to raise prices.
Given the obvious potential for restricting competition, it would not be surprising to see the Ticketmaster deal, or even Mr. Malone's rescue of Sirius XM, which was announced Tuesday, challenged by the new administration. Neither would really represent a test case of Obama's merger mettle. A more telling case will be one that upends the traditional means that antitrust enforcers have used to determine whether a deal meets the spirit of the Clayton Act.
Historically, mergers in the United States have been judged through the prism of what some call the ''Economic Man'' hypothesis. Under this thinking, regulators try to determine the impact on competition by assuming that companies will act logically, rationally and in their self-interest -- a variation of Adam Smith's invisible hand.
But there is a growing movement in the antitrust community to challenge this rational choice theory of neoclassical economics in favor of behavioral economics. Under this school of thought -- loudly espoused by Obama's chief economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers -- economists examine how real people actually make decisions.
Applying behavioral economics to antitrust ''risks expanding the scope of agency review to transactions that were previously unassailable,'' two lawyers with Skadden Arps, Neal R. Stoll and Shepard Goldfein, wrote in The New York Law Journal last month. It would, among other changes, require the retention of psychologists alongside the economists, marketers and industry experts currently reviewing deals.
This would surely complicate matters for executives in search of expense-wrenching deals in the downturn, as well as for the bankers advising them. At the least they will have psychologists somewhere in the mix to help guide them through their despair.
ROB COX
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.
Correction: February 23, 2009, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Breakingviews column on Wednesday, about the possibility of stepped-up antitrust enforcement in the Obama administration, misstated the surname of the Justice Department's antitrust chief under President George W. Bush. He is Tom Barnett, not Burnett.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence H. Summers favors applying behavioral economics to antitrust issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); SATELLITE RADIO (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US CLAYTON ANTITRUST ACT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); BAILOUTS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); RETAILERS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (65%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (65%)

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (63%); PFIZER INC (54%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (63%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFEB (BRU) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (63%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MALONE (56%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



703 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: As the Stimulus Becomes the Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Party Lines Barely Shift as Package Is Approved'' (news article, Feb. 14):
What the country is experiencing right now is nothing short of an economic Katrina. The Republicans' response has been eerily familiar: first, to pretend it wasn't happening; then, to do nothing as homes and ways of life were lost; and finally, to congratulate themselves on having done a ''heckuva job'' in dealing with it.
The Republican leaders currently clapping themselves on the back right now over their near unanimous opposition to the stimulus bill might want to think twice about it. Amy MacDonald 
Englewood, Fla., Feb. 15, 2009
To the Editor:
Re ''Ailing Banks and U.S. Aid'' (news analysis, front page, Feb. 13):
The stimulus package that is now in place was the simple part.
The overriding issue now is to build sufficient confidence in the consuming public that jobs and livelihoods are not in jeopardy, that people may begin to spend without being fearful, and that goods not bought today will not be cheaper tomorrow.
Once we finally turn the corner, the major issue will be to lower expectations, that a growth rate of 2 to 3 percent a year is perfectly acceptable, and good, and that people should not expect the unsustainable and fictitious ''bubble building'' returns of the last decade.
Together with this we will need intelligent regulation to guard against the excesses and greed of the last decade.
Alan Lipworth
Scarsdale, N.Y., Feb. 15, 2009
To the Editor:
It's good that some Republican governors are in touch with the real lives of their constituents (''Obama Gains G.O.P. Support From Governors,'' front page, Feb. 17).
A modest proposal for those G.O.P. governors, senators and representatives who still oppose any government spending (except on wasteful military budgets or tax cuts for the rich): They should reject any stimulus money for their own states' unemployed, schools, roads and health care. They should tell all those unemployed workers to throw themselves on the mercy of the private sector.
That would be the ''principled'' position for those who dub the stimulus ''generational theft.'' Susan Jhirad
Danvers, Mass., Feb. 17, 2009
To the Editor:
Re ''States and Cities in Scramble for Stimulus Cash'' (front page, Feb. 16):
It's important to acknowledge the metropolitan areas in which local leaders are joining together, not fighting among themselves, to make the most of stimulus funds.
In Kansas City, the Puget Sound area and southern Nevada, regional leaders are collaborating on project lists and presenting a united front to state leaders who will dole out recovery dollars.
In greater Chicago, the San Francisco Bay area and the Denver region, metropolitan organizations are creating criteria for project selection and developing regional priorities so that recovery money will be used for major infrastructure investments for the entire region, rather than a scattering of small-bore projects in different jurisdictions.
Our research shows that metropolitan areas are the key to American prosperity, with the top 100 metro areas generating 75 percent of our gross domestic product.
The recovery package did little to harness the power of these economic engines. It's gratifying to see that metropolitan leaders are stepping up to correct this oversight and demonstrating how our metro areas can be greater than the sum of their parts.
Mark Muro
Sarah Rahman
Washington, Feb. 16, 2009
The writers are, respectively, the policy director and a policy analyst for the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution.
To the Editor:
Re ''Decade at Bernie's'' (column, Feb. 16):
Is there an upside to Paul Krugman's doom and gloom analysis? We have lost wealth and gained loads of debt since 2001. We were duped, or more accurately, we deceived ourselves, between 2001 and 2007, and suddenly our discounting-the-future note has become due.
Perhaps the good news is that it may take a while to restore health to the economy, and during this time we may learn to be smarter, more rational consumers. We might even recognize the value of actually choosing to invest more of our resources in infrastructures like education, the kind of investments that will keep providing reliable dividends for all of us.
Herbert J. Weingartner
Washington, Feb. 16, 2009
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman says, ''It will take years for families and firms to work off the debt they ran up so blithely.''
We have no debts. We did not run up any debts. We are semiretired musician-teachers.
While I am grateful that I have no mortgage and have decent medical insurance, I am furious that my assets and my income are diminished because of lack of judgment and oversight by people who should have known better. I am sure that there are millions of people who feel the same way.
Julianne Hirsh
Brooklyn, Feb. 16, 2009
To the Editor:
Re ''They Sure Showed That Obama,'' by Frank Rich (column, Feb. 15):
According to Mr. Rich, if Republicans ''want to obstruct and filibuster while the economy is in free fall, the president should call their bluff and let them go at it.''
Even more problematic is that nobody is wondering out loud how these naysaying Republicans would answer this: Now that the stimulus bill has passed, do you want it to be successful so that the American people can have economic security and stability again, or are you so anxious to prove the point that you are right that you would be happy for the stimulus bill to fail?
Unfortunately, my sense is that Republicans would rather be right and have the country go down the tubes than be wrong and lose political points. Reminds me of George W. Bush ... he couldn't even think of anything he had done wrong! The Republicans just want to match that record.
Dianne Friedman
Blacksburg, Va., Feb. 15, 2009
To the Editor:
Some 50 years ago, I drove my newly acquired Ford onto a beach where several friends were gathered for a happy-go-lucky barbecue and beer fest. At the end of the day, after packing my beach gear and an empty beer keg back into the car, I found myself stuck in the sand. I tried rocking the car back and forth, revving the engine higher and higher until something went clunk and smoke started pouring out of the tail pipe.
Sound familiar, Republicans?
Ken Gale
Santa Monica, Calif., Feb. 15, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (61%); CITIES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



704 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: After Stimulus Package, Pentagon Officials Are Preparing to Pare Back

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Having signed into law nearly $800 billion in new spending, President Obama will now be under pressure to identify at least some budget cuts -- and the Pentagon may be particularly vulnerable.
Mr. Obama is set to release his first budget proposal on Feb. 26. After years in which military budgets have soared to record levels, Pentagon officials are already preparing at a minimum to pare back, with a particular eye to slashing weapons programs that have suffered significant cost overruns.
Some Democrats are pressing for much broader cuts in military spending, with Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the Democratic chairman of the Financial Services Committee, having called for a 25 percent reduction in the Pentagon budget. 
While such a drastic reduction is unlikely during a time of two wars and a recession, several high-dollar, high-tech weapons systems will be under the most scrutiny.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has acknowledged that the Pentagon ''faces difficult choices among competing priorities,'' and said the programs most liable for cuts are those ''with serious execution issues.'' Those he cited as having been particularly problematic included the Air Force tanker and Joint Strike Fighter, a new search-and-rescue helicopter, the fleet of replacement helicopters for the president, the tilt-rotor Osprey troop transport, the Army's program for future combat systems and the Navy's littoral combat ship.
''One thing we have known for many months is the spigot of defense funding opened by 9/11 is closing,'' Mr. Gates said in Congressional testimony.
Mr. Gates made clear that he did not intend to force each of the armed services to share equally in any budget cuts, which would be a departure from Pentagon practice. ''We must have the courage to make hard choices,'' he said.
Personnel costs account for about two-thirds of all Pentagon and military spending, but there is little chance that money budgeted for salaries, training, health care and other benefits for military personnel and their families would be slashed while troops are fighting and dying in two wars.
''At the core of our future success is our people,'' Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said this month at Fort Drum, N.Y. He said any budget cuts should first look to trimming programs ''where costs have spun out of control.''
Mr. Gates convened a session last Friday with Admiral Mullen, all of the regional war-fighting commanders and the armed services chiefs and secretaries to focus specifically on budget priorities and financial challenges.
Among those opposed to cuts, military industry lobbyists and members of Congress are likely to question whether cutbacks in arms purchases, with the threat of shutting down production lines, would be the proper response to an economic crisis already marked by deep job losses. Reading the Obama administration's initial proposals for military spending will be tricky.
Even if overall spending is reduced, the official Defense Department budget may actually grow over last year's spending plan, because billions of dollars in emergency spending that now passes through Congress in separate legislation is to be rolled back into the regular budget.
The Pentagon's base budget request for 2009 was $515 billion ($513 billion was approved). Further, a separate bridge fund of $66 billion was approved to pay for the wars in 2009, and it has been expected that the Pentagon may offer another emergency spending bill of up to $70 billion for this year.
Mr. Obama has promised to impose greater controls on government expenses not only for the military but for domestic programs, including the popular but increasingly costly entitlement programs, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.
On Monday at the White House, the president will convene what he has called a ''fiscal responsibility summit'' with budget experts and members of both parties in Congress to discuss potential savings initiatives. The panels will include one that focuses on problems with military procurement. The summit will be followed Tuesday by Mr. Obama's televised address to a joint session of Congress at the Capitol. While not officially a State of the Union address, the speech is routine for a new president and focuses on the initial budget.
Two days later, on Feb. 26, Mr. Obama plans to release his budget outline for fiscal 2010, which begins Oct. 1. The blueprint will also have 10-year projections of spending and revenues, through fiscal 2019.
That will provide the first clues about Mr. Obama's long-range plans for national security, health care, energy and climate, education and taxes -- and for how those plans will square with his promised deficit-reduction at a time when annual deficits are exceeding $1 trillion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEFENSE SECRETARY ROBERT M. GATES (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FUTURE COMBAT SYSTEMS (77%); MILITARY BENEFITS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); TESTIMONY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%); US NAVY (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BARNEY FRANK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



705 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Offers Words of Reassurance While in Japan

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- In words and gestures, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton offered reassurance to Japan on Tuesday, calling its alliance with the United States a ''cornerstone'' of American foreign policy and meeting with families of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea.
Mrs. Clinton then departed on Wednesday for Jakarta, Indonesia, the second stop on a four-country tour that includes stops in South Korea and China. As with the stopover in Japan, the visit to Indonesia is steeped in symbolism: it is the first Muslim country she will visit and the start of what she said would be a ''concerted effort'' by the Obama administration to bring a new message to the Islamic world. 
Mrs. Clinton may also lay the groundwork for a visit by President Obama, who lived in Jakarta as a boy. She has told colleagues that she is fascinated by Indonesia's ability to achieve political stability after its economic crisis in the late 1990s, and that she wonders if it holds any lessons for Pakistan.
While in Japan, Mrs. Clinton carried an invitation from Mr. Obama to Prime Minister Taro Aso to meet him in Washington next Tuesday. Mr. Aso will be the first foreign leader received at the Obama White House.
Saber-rattling by North Korea has already cast a shadow over Mrs. Clinton's first trip as secretary of state, forcing her to confront an issue that evokes a complex range of feelings among the North's neighbors.
In Japan, where animosity toward North Korea runs deep because of the plight of the abductees, Mrs. Clinton said she met with the families ''to express my personal sympathy and our concern for what happened.''
During the meeting, several family members said, Mrs. Clinton pledged her support for resolving questions about the abductees -- the fate of many of whom remains unknown even after three decades. But she stopped short of promising concrete steps to press North Korea on the issue.
The relatives said that Mrs. Clinton spent most of the 30-minute meeting listening to their accounts. Sakie Yokota, whose daughter, Megumi, was kidnapped from Japan in 1977 at age 13, said she gave Mrs. Clinton a copy of her book about her daughter and an extra copy for Mr. Obama.
''She is also a mother, and she said that any mother would fight to the end if such a thing happened to her,'' Mrs. Yokota said.
But when she asked Mrs. Clinton to punish North Korea by restoring it to Washington's list of state sponsors of terrorism -- it was removed by the Bush administration last year -- Mrs. Clinton was noncommittal, saying only that she ''would think about it,'' Mrs. Yokota said.
The relatives said it was noteworthy that Mrs. Clinton had met them, saying it sent a signal to North Korea not to ignore the issue. But they also showed disappointment in her offer to normalize relations with North Korea if it abandoned its nuclear program.
Shigeo Izuka, whose sister was kidnapped in 1978, said he implored Mrs. Clinton ''not to become friendly with North Korea because of a nuclear agreement.'' He said she listened to him ''with intense concern in her eyes, but I felt in my heart that this issue will be all too easily forgotten.''
North Korea has admitted to abducting Mrs. Yokota's daughter and Mr. Izuka's sister and says that both later died in North Korea. The families reject the North's account, saying they want a full investigation.
Mrs. Clinton said Washington would not relent in its pressure on North Korea to get it to give up its nuclear weapons program in a way that was verifiable. ''We are watching very closely,'' she said.
But she repeated Mr. Obama's pledge to ''reach out a hand to those with which we have differences.'' And she committed to continuing the multiparty talks with the North Korean government that also involve China, Japan, Russia and South Korea.
Mrs. Clinton's busy day also included afternoon tea with Empress Michiko at the imperial residence and a town hall meeting at Tokyo University.
Fielding a question from a student about American economic sanctions against Myanmar, formerly Burma, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged that the policy had not brought any significant changes to the country, which is ruled by a military junta. She said the Obama administration was reviewing its options, although she did not give details.
Mrs. Clinton had dinner with Prime Minister Aso, followed by a meeting with his political nemesis, Ichiro Ozawa, the leader of the opposition Democratic Party of Japan.
After the meeting, Mr. Ozawa said that he told Mrs. Clinton that he valued the alliance with the United States, but that he emphasized that he wanted the relationship to be on a more equal footing, criticizing the current government for following Washington too slavishly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Taro Aso, right, welcomed Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton before a dinner in Tokyo on Tuesday.(POOL PHOTO BY KAZUSHIRO NOGI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RELIGION (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); TARO ASO (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



706 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Joblessness Risk Found High Among Cancer Survivors

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Lori Siegel did not even wait for her hair to grow back. Still feeling the effects of radiation treatments, she sent her resume to potential employers, bought a new suit and a wig that does not look like a wig, and started going on job interviews. 
 But so far there have been no offers, and she is convinced that the nine-month gap in her work history gives her away. ''It's like I'm hiding something awful because I got sick,'' said Ms. Siegel, 51, who lives on Long Island and is recovering from breast cancer. ''I don't want to bring it up, but I don't want to lie.'' 
 For Ms. Siegel and many other cancer survivors, money is tight and going back to work a financial necessity. But one of the first big analyses to examine employment rates among American and European cancer survivors has found that they are at significantly higher risk of joblessness than healthy counterparts. 
 The report, appearing Wednesday in The Journal of the American Medical Association, is an analysis of previously published studies. After accounting for variations in data among those studies, it concluded that cancer survivors in the United States and Europe were 37 percent more likely to be unemployed than healthy peers.
 In the United States, where it is particularly critical for survivors to hold on to jobs, because they provide health insurance, cancer patients may be at even greater risk of unemployment than patients in Europe, the study suggested.
 ''This issue is so important to patients, because they often regard returning to work as indicative of complete recovery,'' said the study's chief author, Angela G. E. M. de Boer of the Coronel Institute of Occupational Health, in Amsterdam. ''Employment is associated with a higher quality of life, and encouraging survivors to return to work also benefits aging societies economically.'' 
 Although the study did not explore the reasons for high unemployment, Dr. de Boer speculated that disability played a leading role. Many survivors, she said, may simply be unable to return to work. 
 She urged employers to adopt policies more accommodating to cancer survivors, like additional breaks and flexibility in work hours and tasks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (94%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RADIOLOGY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); BREAST CANCER (71%); WRITERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (87%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



707 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: AUTOMAKERS SEEK $14 BILLION MORE, VOWING DEEP CUTS

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The price tag for bailing out General Motors and Chrysler jumped by another $14 billion Tuesday, to $39 billion, with the two automakers saying they would need the additional aid from the federal government to remain solvent.
 In return, the two companies also promised to make further drastic cuts to all parts of their operations, in the hope that they can eventually strike a balance between their bloated cost structures and a dismal market for new car sales.
 G.M., for example, said it would cut 47,000 more of its 244,000 workers worldwide; close five more plants in North America, leaving it with 33; and cut its lineup of brands in half, to just four: Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC and Buick. 
 The Pontiac brand will have a much smaller role, if any, in G.M.'s future, and the company also said it would phase out its Saturn brand, which it once hoped would build small cars to counter the best of the Japanese brands. 
 G.M. also said it had made progress in discussions with the United Automobile Workers union and its bondholders to reduce its costs further.
 The cash crisis will require fast action by the administration's new cabinet-level Presidential Task Force on Autos, which is overseeing the reorganization of G.M. and Chrysler.
 The deteriorating finances of the two companies present the Obama administration with two options, neither of them appealing. 
 It can provide the money in the hopes that the companies will stabilize, and no longer have to keep pushing workers into a growing pool of people without jobs. But there are no guarantees, as the Treasury Department learned on Tuesday when the automakers filed updates on their restructuring plans, that they might not be forced to come back again with requests for more money. 
 But if the federal government balks at the automakers' requests, that would mean the two companies probably would have no choice but to file for bankruptcy protection, because they are losing hundreds of millions of dollars each month. 
 And the car companies said on Tuesday that the cost of a bankruptcy reorganization, with the government providing financing to help it through that process, would be far greater than their latest loan requests. Without such help, the companies would have to liquidate, creating staggering new job losses.
 In a statement, the administration said Tuesday night that its task force would be reviewing the carmakers' reports in coming days, adding that ''more will be required from everyone involved -- creditors, suppliers, dealers, labor and auto executives themselves -- to ensure the viability of these companies going forward.''
 The third Detroit auto company, Ford Motor, has not received federal assistance and has no requests pending.
 By March 31, the presidential task force is expected to rule on whether G.M. and Chrysler have restructured enough to be viable businesses for the long term.
 Big questions remain, including whether G.M. and Chrysler, as well as Ford, will be able to cut their unionized labor costs to parity with foreign automakers, as was required in the original loan agreement from last December.
 The companies have been in marathon negotiations with the United Automobile Workers on reducing costs, as well as determining how they will finance health care trusts for retired blue-collar workers and their surviving spouses.
 G.M. is also pushing for a deal with its bondholders to help it reduce its debt to $9 billion, from $27 billion. The U.A.W. said on Tuesday it had reached ''understandings'' with the Detroit companies on modifications to their contracts. Ron Gettelfinger, the union's president, said ''discussions are continuing'' regarding how to fund the health care trusts at each of the companies. 
 Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said there had been ''good progress'' in talks with both the union and bondholders.
 On the concessions in the U.A.W. contract, he said, ''the things that have been negotiated really take a big bite out of what needed to accomplish.'' 
 G.M.'s restructuring plan extends to its global operations. It will cut 47,000 jobs worldwide by the end of this year. It also said it would close 14 plants in North America by 2012 -- five more than were included in its Dec. 2 loan request. 
 Mr. Wagoner said on Tuesday that the revamping plan was ''comprehensive, responsive and achievable,'' and could help the company break even by 2010. Both G.M. and Chrysler said they expected to begin paying back their federal loans by 2012.
 A bankruptcy filing, Mr. Wagoner said, would be a ''highly risky and costly process.'' G.M.'s president, Frederick Henderson, said the company would require as much as $100 billion in debtor-in-possession financing from the federal government if it filed for Chapter 11. Chrysler said it would need $25 billion if that step were required.
 G.M. and Chrysler admitted that their current federal loans would be exhausted by March 31.
 G.M. said Tuesday that it had increased its overall loan request from the government to a total of $30 billion, up from $18 billion.
 The company has received $13.4 billion so far from Treasury, and the most recent installment -- $4 billion -- was turned over to G.M. on Tuesday.
 But G.M. said that loan would not last long. Company officials said they hoped to receive another $2 billion loan in March and $2.6 billion in April. Beyond that, G.M. is asking for another $12 billion by 2011 -- $7.5 billion in loans and $4.5 billion to pay off a credit facility that comes due.
 Chrysler, which has received $4 billion in loans, also increased its overall request for funding. In December, it said it needed $3 billion more to survive 2009, but it raised that request to $5 billion.
 The smallest of Detroit's Big Three, Chrysler has drastically scaled back its operations since being acquired in 2007 by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management.
 On Tuesday, Chrysler said it would cut another 3,000 jobs and discontinue three models -- the Dodge Durango, P.T. Cruiser and Chrysler Aspen.
 ''Chrysler will be viable,'' said the company's chairman, Robert L. Nardelli. ''An orderly restructuring outside of bankruptcy, together with the completion of our stand-alone viability plan and enhanced by a strategic alliance with Fiat, is the best option for Chrysler employees, our unions, dealers, suppliers, customers, and certainly the taxpayers.'' The company is exploring a deal with Fiat to share products.
 But Mr. Nardelli said Chrysler would have to consider liquidating itself in the event that it received no more federal aid. 
 G.M. executives sidestepped questions on Tuesday on whether they had been given any assurances by administration officials about additional loans. ''They fully understood we would be coming in with additional requests,'' said Ray Young, G.M.'s chief financial officer.
 But the possibility exists of a negative political reaction to the administration's pouring more taxpayers' money into the companies, especially when they continue to operate at huge losses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief, said there had been ''good progress'' in talks with the auto union and bondholders to cut costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) CHART: BILLIONS RECEIVED, BUT NEEDING MORE: Together, General Motors and Chrysler will soon have received $17.4 billion in emergency assistance from the government since December. On Tuesday, however, the car companies announced they needed $14 billion more, in addition to the $7.6 billion they had previously requested but not received. Ford has said it is not seeking government help. The financial arms of the two companies, GMAC and Chrysler Financial Services, have also received some $6.5 billion. (Sources: Treasury Department
General Motors
 Chrysler) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); BONDS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



708 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: A Painful Departure For Some G.M. Brands

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The brand that was once hailed as an important part of the future of General Motors now will be part of its past.
 G.M. said Tuesday that it would phase out its Saturn brand by 2012. It does not plan to develop any more new vehicles for Saturn, which began 19 years ago as an effort to attract owners of small Japanese cars.
 G.M. also said it was considering its options for the Pontiac division. The Pontiac name, part of the car business since 1932, could remain on some models, but may no longer be a separate division. G.M. said Pontiac would be a ''focused brand'' with fewer models. 
 The disclosures by G.M., contained in a viability plan submitted to the government, means that G.M. plans to cut its brands in half, to four: Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC. 
 It said last fall that it would try to find buyers for Hummer and Saab. On Tuesday, it said it would decide on Hummer's fate by March 31.
 But is four the right number? 
 After all, most of its big competitors, including Toyota, Honda and Chrysler, build their businesses around three brands or fewer in the United States. Ford is moving to shed its foreign brands and plans to focus primarily on three -- Ford, Lincoln and Mercury.
 ''A volume brand and a premium brand can get the job done. Toyota has proven that,'' said Karl Brauer, editor in chief of Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice. ''Cadillac, Chevy, done.''
 The more brands a carmaker has, the more it must spread money around to develop vehicles and market them. 
 As a result, ''every brand suffers,'' said A. Andrew Shapiro, a managing partner with the Casesa Shapiro Group. ''No particular brand or brands can achieve the share of voice that they need.''
 Its extensive brand lineup has long been G.M.'s primary weapon. Founded in 1908 by William C. Durant, who brought together a collection of car companies, G.M. made the concept of ''a car for every purse and purpose'' its strategy during the 1920s for retaining buyers from their first car to their last.
 Brands were a crucial element in G.M.'s effort to thwart Ford, then the country's biggest car company, whose founder joked that buyers could have any color they wanted, as long as it was black.
 G.M.'s strategy paid off during its best years, when it controlled more than half the American car market. But it held only 22 percent of United States auto sales last year, with more than half of its share coming from a single division, Chevrolet.
 G.M. found out last decade just how expensive it could be to unwind a brand. It spent more than $1 billion to buy out dealers at Oldsmobile, which built its last cars in 2004. 
 Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said the automaker had set aside money to buy out dealers, but declined to specify a figure. ''We have reserves in our plan to facilitate that,'' he said. 
 He cited the economic downturn as the reason G.M. was phasing out Saturn. ''Frankly, the opportunity for any brand, and for our volume as a whole, just looks radically different,'' he said. ''It is unfortunate and it seems like a cruel twist of fate at a time when Saturn is loaded up with a fantastic product portfolio.''
 In a letter sent Tuesday to Saturn dealers, G.M. said it would entertain a plan from Saturn dealers or other investors for a spinoff of the division to keep it operating. It said it would provide information to potential investors. 
 But it warned a spinoff would be ''a difficult and complex task, and some of the issues that must be resolved include product sourcing, capitalization and financing issues,'' G.M. said in the letter signed by Mark LeNeve, a G.M. vice president for North American sales, and Jill Lajdziak, the general manager of Saturn. 
 When Saturn was started in 1990, as a ''different kind of car, a different kind of car company'' aimed at owners of small Hondas and Toyotas, its small cars were immediate hits. But G.M. executives decided in the mid-1990s that they needed to support G.M.'s other brands over Saturn, which by then had cost $5 billion.
 G.M. did not add any new vehicles to the Saturn lineup for five years, despite pleas from dealers for bigger vehicles. Earlier this decade, G.M. decided to start selling vehicles from its Opel division, with some design changes, as Saturns in the United States. 
 Saturn sold 188,004 vehicles in 2008, down 21.7 percent from the previous year. Its best-selling vehicle was the Saturn Vue, a small sport utility vehicle.
 Strict franchise laws protect dealers across the country from seeing their operations shut down without advance notice.
 G.M. dealers said they were led to believe that the company was committed to the division. 
 ''G.M. is picking on Saturn,'' said Sherrill Freeborough, who owns Saturn dealerships in Grand Ledge and Okemos, Mich. ''I want G.M. to be successful but I don't think that always happens the other way around.''
 In 1992, when G.M. began discussing the end of Oldsmobile, the division sold 412,000 vehicles. Except for Chevrolet, none of G.M.'s current brands sold that many vehicles last year.
 Mr. Shapiro, the analyst, said G.M. should have rethought its divisions in the 1980s, when a number of new brands appeared in the United States, including Acura, Lexus and Infiniti, the Japanese luxury brands, and the Korean makers Hyundai and Kia.
 ''There were always good short-term reasons for not doing something,'' Mr. Shapiro said. 
 Ed Dena, a Pontiac dealer in Dinuba, Calif., said he would eventually have to focus on his other G.M. brands, including Chevrolet, Buick and GMC. ''Of course we're sad because Pontiac is an icon,'' he said. ''But right now, in this industry, nothing is a shock anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suburban Hummer in Troy, Mich., above. General Motors will decide Hummer's fate by March 31. It said last fall that it would try to find a buyer for Hummer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Saturn sold 188,004 vehicles in 2008. Its best-selling vehicle was the Saturn Vue. Above, a hybrid model at the Detroit auto show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN F. MARTIN FOR GENERAL MOTORS)(pg. B4) CHART: Paring Down: In its restructuring plan released Tuesday, G.M. indicated that it would probably sell or phase out three of its brands -- Saturn, Hummer and Saab -- and diminish Pontiac's role.(Source: Motorintelligence.com) Chart details bubble graph. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%)

COMPANY: SATURN CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



709 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: After Two Years of Trying, Owners Give Up on Selling Starrett City

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The owners of Starrett City, the country's largest federally subsidized housing complex, have abandoned their heady dream of selling the property for more than a billion dollars. 
 The owners, a group of investors led by Disque Deane, cited the faltering economy and a lack of financing as the reasons. But the sale may have foundered over price, said Donald Cogsville, who until Monday led a consortium of nonprofit organizations and developers that had been negotiating to buy Starrett City for the past two months. 
 Neither side would discuss details of the proposed sale, although some real estate executives familiar with the talks said that the group had offered about $700 million. Mr. Cogsville said his consortium was unwilling to raise its offer to meet the seller's demands. 
 ''We weren't prepared to offer a higher price that jeopardized either long-term affordability, or a commercial return,'' Mr. Cogsville said.
 The owners had put the complex -- 5,881 apartments in 46 towers spread across 140 acres overlooking Jamaica Bay in Brooklyn -- on the auction block at the height of the real estate boom in 2006, hoping to sell it for at least $1.2 billion. But prices have plummeted since then.
 Along the way, the potential sale ran into widespread opposition from tenant groups and elected officials who feared that a high price would force a new owner to oust longtime residents in favor of higher-paying tenants, or defer maintenance at what is a highly regarded complex. 
 Their fears were heightened by a sudden buyers' frenzy in which private equity firms bought dozens of brick tenements in Harlem, the South Bronx and East New York with plans to profit by converting rent-regulated apartments to market rents.
 In a statement Monday afternoon, the owners said that Starrett City was no longer for sale, and indicated that they did not plan to pull out of the state's Mitchell-Lama program, which subsidizes middle-class housing, as they had once threatened.
 ''We plan to continue working with government to operate Starrett City as an affordable housing complex into the future,'' said Martin J. McLaughlin, a spokesman for the owners, Starrett City Associates.
 The efforts to sell Starrett City had unsettled many of its 14,000 tenants. But now with the sale canceled, residents expressed mixed emotions, with some saying they feel the complex's future remains uncertain. 
 ''We're stuck in limbo,'' said Rebecca Caraballo, 58, a retired medical assistant and a member of the Starrett City tenant association. 
 The owners have told public officials that they were exploring their options, including a possible refinancing of the complex, which has a relatively small $234.4 million interest-free mortgage. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer and other public officials want the owners to abide by an agreement both sides signed last year intended to ensure that the complex remains affordable for the next generation of tenants.
 ''If the owners of Starrett City want to retain the property, then they must continue to follow a long-term affordability plan that preserves the complex and lives up to the Memorandum of Understanding we agreed to last year,'' Mr. Schumer said in a statement Monday.
 Starrett City, situated between Canarsie and East New York, is something of a rarity, a large housing complex that works, according to tenants and housing advocates. Its racially and ethnically mixed population of 14,000 residents have their own shopping center, post office, houses of worship and power plant.
 The current owners got extensive tax breaks when they invested in Starrett City in the 1970s and annual rent subsidies from federal, state and city governments in return for rent regulation and restrictions limiting the annual return to 6 percent.
 In 2007, their attempt to sell the complex to a real estate developer, David Bistricer, for $1.3 billion was blocked by tenant groups and local officials, who protested the escalating loss of moderately priced housing. 
 Starrett City Associates, which had initially barred bidders from talking to government officials, then worked out an agreement with Senator Schumer and state and city housing officials ensuring that the complex would remain a haven for poor, working and middle-class families.
 A second effort to sell brought offers, albeit far smaller, from six separate groups that included both nonprofit housing operators and developers. 
 With the decision to end the sale, some real estate executives say the owners may seek legislative changes to the regulations restricting the annual profit and the amount of debt on the property.
 If they are successful, the owners could do perhaps a $500 million refinancing, enabling them to pay off the old mortgage and distribute hundreds of millions of dollars to investors without having to pay taxes on capital gains. The owners could later sell the complex when the market improves. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starrett City, with 5,881 apartments in 46 towers spread across 140 acres, nearly sold for $1.3 billion in 2007, but that deal was blocked. Now it is off the market.
 The possible sale of the housing complex, long a haven for working and middle-class families, had unsettled tenants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



710 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: After the Boom, a Hard Fall

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
 Just as office towers appreciated in value faster in Manhattan than elsewhere during the boom years, now their decline is outpacing the rest of the nation, brokers and analysts say.
 Building values are dropping as unemployment worsens, offices empty, rents decline, credit remains tight and buyers expect higher rewards for taking on more risk. 
 ''The outlook for New York is much worse than what we see outside New York,'' said Sam Chandan, the president of Real Estate Economics, a research company in New York. Some people estimate that values in some cases have fallen as much as 50 percent. 
 At the peak of the market in 2007, prime Midtown towers traded for nearly $800 a square foot, on average. Many buildings sold for $1,000 a square foot or more. One office tower, 450 Park Avenue, at 57th Street, changed hands for nearly $1,600 a foot. These extravagant prices were based on the widely held belief that as leases expired, many spaces would fill up at rents well above $100 a square foot. 
 So what are Manhattan office buildings worth today? Since no substantial transactions have taken place in recent months, no one knows for sure. But some real estate specialists are willing to hazard estimates.
 Robert Von Ancken, the senior appraiser for Grubb & Ellis in New York, estimated that prime Midtown buildings were now worth $425 a square foot, on average, while lesser buildings had a value of $350 a square foot, down from $500 to $600 a square foot two years ago. Mr. Von Ancken said he could not estimate how far values in Lower Manhattan had declined until more was known about the prospects for the financial services companies that occupy so much downtown space. 
 In a report issued last month, Cushman & Wakefield's sales brokers estimated that rising vacancies, decreasing rents and investors' demands for higher yields had caused values to fall at least 30 percent. Since that report was issued, values have probably declined even further, said Jon Caplan, an executive vice president. ''Certainly things have deteriorated,'' he said.
 Nationally, office buildings lost an average of 19.7 percent of their value in 2008, said Victor Calanog, the director of research for Reis, a New York research company. 
 A crucial reason for the decline in New York is that investors believe that worse is yet to come, said Jeffrey W. Baker, senior managing director at Savills Granite, a mortgage brokerage firm based in New York.
 ''What we hear again and again from the investor world is, 'Why jump in now when we think things are likely to get worse?''' he said. ''The deal has to be compelling for someone to take the risk.''
 The traditional ways of pricing real estate -- by looking at the sale prices for other buildings, by determining what initial return is acceptable until below-market leases expire, or by figuring out how much it would cost to replace a particular building -- are not useful in today's uncertain market, said Eric Michael Anton, an executive managing director of Eastern Consolidated, a New York investment brokerage firm. 
 ''In '06, people thought it was never going to get bad again,'' Mr. Anton said. ''Now people think it's never going to get good again.''
 The Manhattan vacancy rate now stands at 10.2 percent and asking rents are off 15.8 percent since May 2008, Colliers ABR, a real estate services company, reported last week. The last time vacancy was that high, the average asking rent was 36 percent lower, Colliers said, suggesting that rental rates are likely to fall much further.
 Based on the expectation that rents will continue to decline, Eleven Times Square, a glassy 40-story office tower being built on Eighth Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets, has lost one-third of its value since May 2007, going from $1,360 a square foot to $905, Mr. Calanog said. SJP Properties of Parsippany, N.J., which is developing the building with Prudential Real Estate Investors, declined comment. The building is scheduled for completion next January, but SJP has not announced any tenants. 
 New York is worse off than other places not just because of its dependence on the financial services industry but also because most large transactions during the go-go years were highly leveraged and underwritten with robust projections of rent growth, Mr. Chandan said. Though buyers were required to establish reserve funds to cover the initial shortfall in cash flow, these are rapidly being depleted, raising the specter of increasing defaults, he said.
 In the absence of significant deals, however, many people in the industry say it is impossible to gauge how far values have declined. ''The true answer about where prices are right now is, 'I don't know,' '' said Robert M. White, the president of Real Capital Analytics, a New York research company.
 Michael Knott, an analyst for Green Street Advisors, a research company in Newport Beach, Calif., said that based on the share price of SL Green, New York's largest office landlord, the stock market is valuing the firm's portfolio at $325 to $350 a square foot, less than half its 2007 value. SL Green is a publicly traded real estate investment trust with 29 Manhattan office buildings. Mr. Knott said the price reflected the expectation that values would decline further as distress sales became commonplace.
 Most private real estate investors say they believe that the value ascribed to SL Green in the public market is laughably low, Mr. Knott said. ''I think you can make a case where that's a reasonable number,'' he said. 
 But at least one investor apparently sees more value in an SL Green building. Norman Sturner, a partner in Murray Hill Properties, a New York real estate company, recently made an unsolicited offer to buy 485 Lexington Avenue from SL Green for $540 million, or about $568 a square foot, according to a real estate executive with knowledge of the deal who did not want to be quoted because he is not authorized to talk about the transaction. The 32-story building, between 46th and 47th Streets, has several advantages over many other buildings because it is fully leased, it has an assumable mortgage and the seller has agreed to finance some of the purchase, the executive said. Mr. Sturner and SL Green declined comment. 
 The availability of financing is no guarantee that a deal will be struck, however. Deutsche Bank has agreed to provide financing to the buyer of Worldwide Plaza, on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets, and the office portion of 1540 Broadway between 45th and 46th Streets -- both part of the portfolio that the New York real estate investor Harry B. Macklowe surrendered to the bank last year. Yet efforts to sell the buildings have been unsuccessful.
 Mr. Macklowe acquired those two buildings and five others in 2007 for $7 billion, or an average of $1,000 a square foot. But recently, a deal fell through to buy 1540 Broadway, also known as the Bertelsmann Building, for $400 to $450 a square foot, according to published reports. Analysts caution, however, that both buildings are hobbled by substantial vacancy. 
 When the market was strong, the opportunity to sign new leases added to a building's value. But today, investors fear that they will not be able to fill empty space. ''Vacancy is anathema today,'' Mr. Knott said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Though unconfirmed by the owner, SL Green, an offer of $540 million was reported for 485 Lexington Avenue.
 Deutsche Bank has offered financing to help sell Worldwide Plaza.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



711 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: The Bailout Is Robbing The Banks

BYLINE: By JOHN C. COATES and DAVID S. SCHARFSTEIN. 
John C. Coates is a professor at Harvard Law School. David S. Scharfstein is a professor of finance at Harvard Business School.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 MANY Americans are angry at banks for taking bailout money while still cutting back on lending. But the government is also to blame. For reasons that remain unclear, the Troubled Asset Relief Program has channeled aid to bank holding companies rather than banks. The Obama administration's new Financial Stability Plan will have more influence on bank lending if it actually directs its support to banks.
 To see why, it's important to understand the distinction between banks and bank holding companies. Banks take deposits and make loans to consumers and corporations. Bank holding companies own or control these banks. The big holding companies also own other businesses, including ones that execute trades both on their clients' behalf and for themselves. 
 It would seem obvious that helping banks, not holding companies, would be the most direct way to stimulate bank lending. But when TARP purchased preferred stock and warrants, it bought them from holding companies, not their bank subsidiaries. 
 While TARP has been generous with bank holding companies, these companies have not been so generous with their banks. Four large holding companies -- JP Morgan, Citigroup, Bank of America and Wells Fargo initially received a total of $90 billion in TARP money in the fall, but by the end of 2008 they had contributed less than $15 billion in equity capital to their subsidiary banks. 
 The holding companies seem to have invested most of their TARP money in their other businesses or else retained the option to do so by keeping it in deposit accounts, even as the capital of their banks decreased. At the same time the banks, which provide the majority of loans to large corporate borrowers, drastically reduced lending to new borrowers. 
 It's easy to see why holding companies would withhold capital from their troubled banks. If a bank is insolvent -- as many are now believed to be -- and the government has to take it over, the holding company loses any capital it gave to the bank. Rather than take that risk, the holding company can opt to spend its money elsewhere, perhaps on trading of its own. 
 But this is not a good use of scarce capital. We might end up with too much of this proprietary trading and too little lending. It also means that when it comes time to recapitalize banks there is a bigger hole to fill, and when banks fail there is less capital available to meet the government's obligations to insured depositors and other creditors. Keeping money at the holding company may benefit its shareholders, but it is costly for taxpayers.
 Bailouts, at the very least, should reach their target. When Washington wanted to help Chrysler, it gave money to Chrysler. It did not write a blank check to Cerberus, the private equity firm that owns Chrysler, in the hope that the money would somehow find its way to the carmaker and not to the other companies Cerberus owns. 
 Some politicians, frustrated that the government's costly interventions have not had their desired effect, have wanted to mandate higher levels of bank lending. Others have tried shaming chief executives of financial institutions into lending more, as when Representative Mike Capuano of Massachusetts admonished eight of them who came before the House Financial Services Committee: ''Start loaning the money that we gave you. Get it on the street!''
 It would be more effective to simply ensure that the Financial Stability Plan is directed at banks. When the government buys stock, it should buy bank stock. And if it chooses to buy stock in holding companies, it should at least require that the new capital reaches the bank and non-bank subsidiaries that the government wishes to support. If the government chooses to help private investors buy toxic bank assets, as the planned Public-Private Investment Fund is supposed to do, it should not allow the banks to send those investments to their holding companies. And if the government decides to guarantee debt, it should guarantee the debt of banks, not of holding companies. 
 The Obama administration seems to understand that reviving bank lending is key to economic recovery. Now it needs to make sure that the banks get the money. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RONALD J. CALA II) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (93%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PREFERRED STOCK (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



712 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: P. C. Richard Takes On the New Jersey Turnpike, Seeing a Retail Frontier

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

DATELINE: CARTERET, N.J. 

 BODY:
Turning old industrial land into a sprightly new retail area is rarely easy, even in the best of times, but the task can seem especially daunting when the land in question sits next to a highway that is not a natural retail draw to begin with. 
 Unlike certain highways in the state, the 148-mile New Jersey Turnpike, with widely dispersed interchanges and a paucity of retail sites, has long held more appeal for distribution companies and truckers than for shoppers. 
 Still, that is not stopping one longstanding New York area retailer, P. C. Richard & Son of Farmingdale, N.Y., from pursuing a 15-acre development project that fronts the turnpike in this still heavily industrialized borough. The company, a regional seller of consumer electronics and appliances, is banking on the project to help it expand to the west and north of New York City and Long Island and improve its distribution operations. 
 While few electronics retailers across the country are expanding and Circuit City is shuttering all of its 567 stores nationally, P. C. Richard, which in 2008 had sales of $1.5 billion, is still increasing its store numbers and its reach. It opened a store last fall, for instance, in Nanuet, N.Y., giving the company its first outlet in Rockland County. 
 Founded by the Dutch immigrant Peter Christiaan Richard, who opened a hardware store in Brooklyn in 1909, the company now has 51 stores in New York and New Jersey. 
 Until recently, P. C. Richard operated both a one-million-square-foot warehouse in Farmingdale and a 158,000-square-foot distribution center in Whippany, N.J., which it had leased for 10 years. Served by 50 to 75 trucks a day, the Whippany center was also home to a large employee training center. 
 In early January, the company moved its Whippany distribution and employee training operations to a renovated 300,000-square-foot warehouse in Carteret that was once used by the Herman's sporting goods chain, now defunct, and then by a variety of shorter-term tenants. 
 It sits on a development site in western Carteret that directly fronts the turnpike at Exit 12. This is in a rundown section of the borough, but it has been tagged for retail redevelopment, partly because it is connected by Roosevelt Avenue, one of the borough's main thoroughfares, with heavily trafficked Route 1, one of the busiest retail corridors in the state. 
 Last year, P. C. Richard signed a four-year lease for the warehouse, with a commitment to buy it, at a price it would not disclose. Elsewhere on the site, the company bought a 64,370-square-foot building, which is still occupied by an automotive parts company, but which is to be remade within a year into a large P. C. Richard store and clearance center. The company already has a 55,000-square-foot center in Deer Park, N.Y. 
 ''We think our new facility puts us in an enviable position for our next round of growth in the state,'' said Gregg Richard, the president of the company, which is now run by fourth-generation family members.
 Mr. Richard said the larger distribution center in Carteret would enable the company to more efficiently serve customers who now live as far west as Pennsylvania, as well as the growing number of buyers who ask the company to both deliver and install products like flat-screen television sets. He said P. C. Richard offered next-day delivery seven days a week on any product in stock. 
 Thomas R. Carragher, branch manager for the northern New Jersey office at Studley, a real estate firm that specializes in representing tenants, said that P. C. Richard first began looking for a larger New Jersey warehouse and training facility about five years ago, and that the search eventually extended to some half-dozen counties. 
 ''We wanted to find the needle in the haystack -- a modern distribution building that would give them highway signage, retail potential, and that could also be purchased,'' said Gregg K. Najarian, a Studley managing director who worked with Mr. Carragher to find the site in Carteret, which is in Middlesex County. 
 Still, borough officials, as well as some local real estate owners, are clearly hoping that P. C. Richard will eventually help to put Carteret on the retail map. 
 One factor that is expected to improve Carteret's prospects for attracting a broader business base is an overhaul now under way at Exit 12, where ramps, toll gates and toll lanes are being redesigned to alleviate truck traffic on local streets like Roosevelt Avenue and allow for easier turnpike access. Until recently, the interchange was a chronic source of congestion for motorists and for the many distribution companies, even though they generally liked Carteret's proximity to New York and to the New Jersey port area and Newark Liberty International Airport. 
 The exit overhaul is still only about two-thirds finished, but Frank V. Caccavo Jr., an executive vice president for Cushman & Wakefield of New Jersey, said it had already led to a positive change in how distribution and warehouse companies look at the borough. William Sitar Jr., a vice president at the Sitar Company, a real estate services company in Iselin, noted that it was already easier for motorists to get to some of the retail businesses in the eastern part of the borough. 
 Like many towns in New Jersey, Carteret's fortunes were once closely tied to the chemical industry, with companies including DuPont, Mobil and Agrico, and more recently to warehouse and distribution companies. While the borough still has sizable brownfields, it now also has 17 areas, including some former polluted sites, that have been designated for development.
 Some of the borough's old industrial pockets have already gone to new residential development, like the 288-unit Bristol Station, a gated luxury apartment project that opened in 2007 in an area near the waterfront. But so far retailers have been slow in moving to the 4.4-mile-square borough, even though its population is growing, unlike many towns in New Jersey.
 One problem is location: Sitting opposite Staten Island on the Arthur Kill Waterway, with the Rahway River to its north, the almost peninsula-shaped borough is often bypassed for nearby towns like Woodbridge and Linden, which are easier to reach. 
 ''P. C. Richard is one of the most dynamic retailers here so far,'' said Kathaleen R. Shaw, the borough's director of economic development.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: P.C. Richard's outlet in Carteret. The company is developing 15 acres there to position itself for a new round of growth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (89%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (76%); TRUCK DRIVERS (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%)

COMPANY: HERMAN'S SPORTING GOODS INC (64%); PC RICHARD & SON INC (58%); P C RICHARD & SON CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (64%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (64%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (58%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (58%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



713 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Cancer Survivors Struggle to Find Jobs, Study Finds

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Lori Siegel did not even wait for her hair to grow back. Still feeling the effects of radiation treatments, she sent her resume to potential employers, bought a new suit and a wig that does not look like a wig, and started going on job interviews. 
 But so far there have been no offers, and she is convinced that the nine-month gap in her work history gives her away. ''It's like I'm hiding something awful because I got sick,'' said Ms. Siegel, 51, who lives on Long Island and is recovering from breast cancer. ''I don't want to bring it up, but I don't want to lie.'' 
For Ms. Siegel and many other cancer survivors, money is tight and going back to work a financial necessity. But one of the first big analyses to examine employment rates among American and European cancer survivors has found that they are at significantly higher risk for joblessness than healthy counterparts. 
 The report, appearing Wednesday in The Journal of the American Medical Association, is an analysis of previously published studies. After accounting for variations in data among those studies, it concluded that cancer survivors in the United States and Europe were 37 percent more likely to be unemployed than healthy peers. In the United States, where it is particularly critical for survivors to hold on to jobs, because they provide health insurance, cancer patients may be at even greater risk of unemployment than patients in Europe, the study suggested.
 ''This issue is so important to patients, because they often regard returning to work as indicative of complete recovery,'' said the study's chief author, Angela G.E.M. de Boer of the Coronel Institute of Occupational Health, in Amsterdam. ''Employment is associated with a higher quality of life, and encouraging survivors to return to work also benefits aging societies economically.'' 
 Although the study did not explore the reasons for high unemployment, Dr. de Boer speculated that disability played a leading role. Many survivors, she said, may simply be unable to return to work. 
 She urged businesses and other employers to adopt policies more accommodating to cancer survivors, like additional breaks and flexibility in work hours and tasks.
 Nancy Redwine, a 49-year-old cancer survivor in Santa Cruz, Calif., said she had to quit her job at a local newspaper a few years ago after being diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. ''I was just really sick,'' she said. ''I had a really stressful job, and I just couldn't do it. I was totally overwhelmed, and I didn't know how much longer I had to live.'' 
 She lived on credit cards for several years and eventually had to declare bankruptcy, she said.
 ''Cancer used to be a disease that occurred after you retired, because that's when you were diagnosed,'' said Cathy J. Bradley, a health economist at Virginia Commonwealth University Massey Cancer Center who has studied employment among cancer patients. ''Now patients are getting that diagnosis early on, which is a good thing. . . .But I don't think they or their employers are prepared for the tradeoff, which is that someone may be out of work for a long time.''
 The new study is one of several recent reports focusing on the financial burdens of cancer. A report earlier this month by the American Cancer Society and the Kaiser Family Foundation reported that even privately insured patients struggle to pay for cancer care and often end up in debt, declaring bankruptcy, and foregoing or postponing needed treatment. They may face steep out-of-pocket costs because of annual caps on benefits and co-pays from frequent doctors' visits. And if patients have to stop working, they often have to make a steep monthly payment for extended coverage, which can easily cost $1,000 a month, at the same time their income is reduced. 
 ''You think you're okay when you have insurance, but then when you get something like cancer, you discover there are a lot of holes in your insurance,'' said Christie Schmidt, senior director of policy with the American Cancer Society and a co-author of the report.
 For example, an insurance policy may cover up to ten radiation treatments over the course of a year, Ms. Schmidt noted, while the course of therapy for breast cancer may involve seven weeks of treatment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (94%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RADIOLOGY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BREAST CANCER (76%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); WORKPLACE STRESS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); WRITERS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (87%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



714 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: For Sale in ... Uruguay

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A TWO-BEDROOM TWO-BATH COTTAGE AND A TWO-BEDROOM BUNGALOW ON THE RIO DE LA PLATA
 $250,000
 The main house -- the cottage -- flanks the Rio de la Plata, or the Plate River, separating Uruguay from Argentina. Dark wood ceiling beams run throughout and are typical of local architecture. The kitchen has terra cotta tile and granite countertops. Outside, a covered patio with a dining area faces the river. 
 Palm trees shade the house; a fireplace supplements the house's gas heaters. The master bedroom has an en-suite bathroom. 
 A separate bungalow also has two bedrooms with en-suite bathrooms. Both structures are on 3,500 square meters (almost an acre). 
 Colonia, a 17th-century city about 100 kilometers (62 miles) away, was founded by the Portuguese and is a popular cultural center. The nearest international airport is two and a half hours away by car, in Montevideo. Buenos Aires can be reached by private boat (90 minutes) or private plane (20 minutes from the local airport).
 MARKET OVERVIEW
 Historic homes in Colonia start at around $500 a square meter ($46 a square foot), depending on size and location, according to Patricia Turner, a real estate agent in the Montevideo office of Reynolds Propiedades. She said the majority of the housing stock are small, single-family homes. Apartments are scarce. Many buyers in Colonia convert their homes to small hotels for tourists, called ''posadas,'' Ms. Turner said. A well-appointed posada in Colonia with architectural detail costs about $700 a square meter ($65 a square foot).
 One of Uruguay's most popular second-home destinations is Punta del Este, a resort area on a peninsula in southern Uruguay. Jason Mitchell, a director with Reporte Immobiliario, an Argentine real estate research firm, estimated that apartments in Punta del Este cost about $2,494 a square meter ($232 a square foot), though he said the market there has stagnated in recent months.
 The property market in Uruguay is relatively stable, according to Juan Federico Fischer, a partner with LVM Attorneys at Law, a firm that advises foreign investors. Recently, he has seen an increase in interest from American buyers who want an inexpensive place to live while riding out the economic downturn.
 WHO BUYS IN URUGUAY
 Argentines make up most of the foreign buyers in Uruguayan real estate, Mr. Fischer said, followed by Americans and Canadians. Most European buyers are from Spain. He has also observed a recent increase in Australian investors. 
 Many foreign buyers purchase property as an investment, hiring local property managers to rent out their homes until they retire and move to Uruguay full time, Ms. Turner said.
 BUYING BASICS
 The buyer and seller each pay a 3.66 percent real estate agent commission, Ms. Turner said. 
 There are several other fees associated with the purchase of the property for the buyer. An additional 3.66 percent, is paid to an escribano, or notary public, who oversees the sale. Stamp-duty tax averages about $200, Mr. Fischer said. There is a 2 percent transfer tax, which is applied to the property's fiscal value. (The fiscal value is the value on record according to the tax office, and is usually about 40 percent of the market value of the property, according to Mr. Fischer.)
 Buyers pay for property in United States dollars. That way, Mr. Fischer said, investors are shielded from the fluctuation of the local currency. 
 ''It's such a dollarized economy,'' he said. ''Most transactions take place in dollars.''
 USEFUL WEB SITES
 Official tourism site of Uruguay: www.turismo.gub.uy
 Property tax office: www.catastro.gub.uy
 LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
 Spanish; Uruguayan Peso (1 peso equals $0.04)
 TAXES AND FEES
 Municipal taxes are based on the fiscal value of the house, and are usually between 0.25 and 1.2 percent of the purchase price, according to Mr. Fischer. Owners also pay a school tax of about 0.1 to 0.5 percent of the purchase price. 
 Because this house is rural, the owners pay only the municipal tax. The taxes on this property are about $43 a year. The current owners pay $500 a month for a caretaker who lives nearby.
 CONTACT
 Patricia Turner, Reynolds Propiedades, www.reynoldspropiedades.com; 011-59-82-915-7926

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (87%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); AIRPORTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); COMMISSION PAY (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: RIO DE LA PLATA BANK (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) URUGUAY (98%); ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



715 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Wyoming Thinks Twice About Feeding the Elk

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo. 

 BODY:
When the mighty elk herds of the West were facing the possibility of extinction from overhunting, settlement and neglect a century ago, people here stepped forward and began what has turned out to be a profound biological experiment.
 They offered food to the straggling survivors. 
 The Jackson herd, now tens of thousands of animals strong, became the foundation for a resurgent elk population. After the federal government stepped in to run the feeding system in 1912, a self-reinforcing loop of tourism, hunting, ranching and politics emerged. Having lots of elk in one place where humans would feed them, year in and year out, gradually became a goal in itself, shrouded with complex motives and enshrined by time. 
 ''Habit became tradition; tradition became culture,'' said Bruce Smith, who served for 22 years as senior biologist at the National Elk Refuge here, operated by the federal Fish and Wildlife Service.
 Now a new and tightening circle of challenges is closing in on the elk and the human system that has sustained them, forcing a debate over the science, emotion and economics of protecting these magnificent animals and the landscape they inhabit. At the center is a critical question: Did human kindness backfire, setting the elk up for disaster? 
 A federal lawsuit filed last year by a coalition of environmental groups charges that feeding the elk violates the Fish and Wildlife Service's charter to manage refuges for healthy populations and biological integrity. Feeding programs, the suit argues, endanger the elk and create monocultures that degrade the landscape for other creatures, like birds, which can no longer nest on feeding grounds stripped of willows by the ravenous herd.
 Biological threats that could devastate the elk are also looming on the horizon, especially chronic wasting disease, or C.W.D., a neural disorder that spreads by mutated proteins, not unlike mad cow disease. Chronic wasting disease, found in an infected moose last year only about 45 miles from Jackson, has moved in an inexorable line in recent years from Wyoming's southeast corner, where it first appeared, to the rest of the state. The disease was discovered in Colorado in the 1960s.
 But alternatives to feeding -- should a judge order it stopped -- have grown more complicated. The valley floors that the elk once used as migration corridors have largely been developed. A boom in oil and gas drilling east of Jackson has created a powerful constituency that wants elk kept on the refuge, out of the way. About 25,000 people tour the refuge each winter and spend money in town when they come.
 ''It's like a tar baby -- nobody can figure out how to let go of it,'' said Bradford Mead, a fourth-generation rancher who is convinced that at some point the feeding must end. 
 That, all sides agree, would be painful medicine for one stark reason: Fewer elk would, or could, survive, though no one knows for certain what a sustainable number might be.
 A smaller elk herd would raise the question of whether other parts of the ecosystem have perhaps become dependent. Wolves hunt elk calves, and bears, upon emerging from hibernation, sometimes scavenge dead elk.
 Then there is the question of what responsibility people have for the system they created. 
 ''We trained them to come,'' said Christine Skilton, a sales associate at Images of Nature, a gallery in Jackson that sells nature photography, including pictures of elk. ''We can't stop now,'' she said. ''It would be a disaster.''
 The Elk Refuge's manager, Steve Kallin, whose office overlooks the 25,000 acres where more than 7,000 elk have gathered this winter, said he lived in fear of what could happen if -- some people say when -- chronic wasting disease breaks out. 
 ''Disease potential has always been recognized -- C.W.D. is making it real,'' Mr. Kallin said on a recent morning.
 Mr. Kallin said chronic wasting disease, which is 100 percent fatal and has no vaccine, was so unlike other diseases that it was close to science fiction. The prions that carry it to animals are not really even technically alive, he said, and once in the ground, they can persist for years. 
 But fear of the disease has also paradoxically supported the argument that feeding the elk must not be stopped.
 When ranchers first supported feeding in the early 20th century, the goal was to keep the elk away from the hay stored for winter. Now ranchers want the animals kept off private lands because of diseases endemic to the herd, like brucellosis, that could infect cattle. Brucellosis causes pregnant cows to abort their calves.
 That creates another feedback loop: Feeding can cause elk to congregate in unnaturally dense numbers, which makes them more prone to brucellosis and other diseases, like foot-rot, not to mention chronic wasting disease, biologists say. This, in turn, fosters greater anxiety in the ranching community about keeping elk segregated. 
 ''If you tried to design a system that would magnify wildlife diseases, you couldn't do much better than what we're doing now,'' said Dr. Thomas J. Roffe, chief of wildlife health at the Fish and Wildlife Service. ''We want to have our cake and eat it, too -- lots of elk, but not have them range around on private land.''
 Meanwhile, the shift to tourism continues to redefine the local economy. The number of cattle in Teton County has declined by 40 percent since 2001, to about 6,000 animals last year, according to the Department of Agriculture.
 For ranchers like Glenn Taylor, the tough economics of ranching have made side businesses all the more crucial. Mr. Taylor runs hunting trips as an outfitting guide, and he said about 80 percent of his guide business depends on elk that the feeding grounds keep in good supply.
 ''I want to leave things alone,'' Mr. Taylor said of the debate over feeding, ''at least until we find out we should be doing something drastically different.''
 Other people say caution must be the watchword.
 ''We have to be careful that the cure should not be worse than the disease,'' said Clarene Law, a businesswoman in Jackson and a former state legislator who opposes an end to feeding. Like other businesses here, the hotel that Ms. Law is a co-owner of is anchored in elk lore: the Antler Inn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Horse-drawn sleighs carry Wyoming tourists through the National Elk Refuge, where environmentalists have sued to end a century-old program of feeding the elk.
 More than 7,000 elk have gathered in the refuge this winter. State officials inoculate them and mark them with paintballs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID J. SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BIOLOGY (78%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (78%); LITIGATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



716 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2289 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: February 18, 2009

 BODY:
International
 AFTER WAR IN SRI LANKA, 
 The Struggle for Peace Endures
 As the Sri Lankan military closes in on separatist rebels in the climactic battles of the country's long-running civil war, the government is finding it difficult to achieve peace without addressing disparity of wealth, development, or the cultural and political grievances that propelled the insurgency among the ethnic Tamil minority. PAGE A6 
 The Limits of Free Speech in Egypt A8 
 8 RETRIED IN AIRLINE TERROR PLOT 
 After a trial in September ended with a jury failing to reach a verdict, prosecutors began a second trial of the eight men accused in a plot in 2006 to blow up seven trans-Atlantic airliners with liquid explosives hidden in soft-drink bottles. PAGE A10 
 THE FATE OF 4 GUANTaNAMO INMATES
 Concerns have been raised over the future of four prisoners who are being interrogated in Iraq after they were released more than a month ago from the American prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The case highlights some of the difficulties that President Obama will face in delivering his promise to close the detention facility. PAGE A11 
 Sudan and Rebels Agree to Talks A11 
 MINISTER QUITS DURING RECESSION
 The resignation of Japan's finance minister, Shoichi Nakagawa, criticized for his odd behavior at a news conference at the Group of 7 meeting in Rome, poses new problems for the country's leadership and economy during a worsening recession. PAGE A12 
 CLINTON HAILS ALLIANCE WITH JAPAN
 On the first stop of her four-country tour of Asia, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton offered reassurance to Japan of its alliance with the United States. She also met with families of citizens abducted by North Korea. PAGE A12
 CHINESE INQUIRY ON TRANSPLANTS
 In 2007, China banned all transplants for foreigners, known as ''organ tourists,'' because of an estimated 1.5 million citizens waiting for transplants. Now China said that it was investigating whether 17 Japanese tourists had received illegal kidney and liver transplants. PAGE A12 
 A KHMER PRISON OFFICIAL'S RIGHTS
 The first of five trials addressing the Khmer Rouge atrocities of the 1970s opened with a plea on behalf of the judicial rights of the defendant, Kaing Guek Eav, known as Duch, who was the commandant of Tuol Sleng prison, where at least 14,000 people were tortured and sent to their deaths. PAGE A13 
 National
 WYOMING RECONSIDERS
 Feeding the Elk
 The people of Jackson, Wyo., helped nurse the endangered elk populations of the West back from near extinction a century ago by feeding the straggling survivors, and the feeding became part of the culture. Now that the elk are thriving, a coalition of environmental groups has filed a federal lawsuit arguing that elk feeding programs help degrade the landscape for other creatures and violate the Fish and Wildlife Service's charter. PAGE A14
 REWARDING EFFORT OR GOOD WORK?
 A recent study by researchers at the University of California, Irvine, found that college students had a very specific take on grading: putting forth an effort in class and on assignments entitled them to higher grades. Professors, perhaps unsurprisingly, saw it differently. ''Students often confuse the level of effort with the quality of work,'' said one university administrator. PAGE A15
 CANCER SURVIVORS AND JOBLESSNESS
 A report in The Journal of the American Medical Association examining employment rates among American and European cancer survivors has found that they are at a significantly higher risk for joblessness than their healthy counterparts. PAGE A15
 OBAMA SIGNS STIMULUS BILL
 President Obama signed the $787 billion stimulus into law in Denver, in the second week he has taken to the road for campaign-style appearances to build support for his agenda. And his speech signaled that the White House intended to seek political advantage. PAGE A17
 PENTAGON PROGRAMS MAY FACE CUTS
 The Pentagon could find parts of its financing reduced as President Obama faces pressure to find budget cuts after signing into law the stimulus bill. While a drastic reduction in military spending is unlikely, several expensive, high-tech weapons will be under the most scrutiny. PAGE A17
 FACING AN EMPTY CABINET
 After signing the stimulus legislation into law, President Obama faces another problem: There is virtually no one in place in his cabinet departments to spend the money. After several of his cabinet nominees withdrew, the top echelon of his government is largely unassembled. PAGE A17
 BACKING BUSH POLICY, QUIETLY
 In little-noticed confirmation testimony, two Obama nominees endorsed continuing the C.I.A.'s program of transferring prisoners to other countries without legal rights, and indefinitely detaining terrorism suspects without trials, even if they were arrested far from a war zone. It was a quiet signal of continued support for other major elements of President George W. Bush's approach to fighting Al Qaeda. PAGE A19
 New York
 DESPITE FEDERAL OFFER, THE CITY
 Stands Firm on Food Stamps
 A provision in President Obama's stimulus package, extending food stamp benefits for able-bodied adults, overturns a 1996 rule limiting those recipients with no dependents to three months of food stamps in a three-year period. And it has revived a dispute in New York City between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- who said the city was not obligated to extend benefits to anyone not enrolled in its workfare program -- and advocates for the poor. PAGE A20 
 ENFORCING A NONEXISTENT LAW
 Twice in the last five years, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority proposed a ban on photography in the subways as an antiterrorism measure. Both times, the ban was dropped after a public outcry. Even so, people taking pictures in the subways are regularly stopped by the police and asked to let officers see their images. Jim Dwyer, About New York. PAGE A20 
 Business
 HIGH ENERGY PRICES MAKE ALASKA
 A Frontier for Green Power
 Alaska is becoming a testing ground for new technologies and an unlikely experiment in oil-state support for renewable energy. Alaskans were once wary of anything smacking of environmentalism, but they are investing heavily in green power, not so much to reduce emissions as to save money. PAGE B1
 STARBUCKS COFFEE, IN AN INSTANT
 Starbucks is set to begin selling instant coffee, and will start selling breakfast value meals in stores worldwide. The move could result in an influx of customers who drink fast-food or grocery store coffee, but could it also water down the Starbucks brand? PAGE B1
 G.M. TO SCRAP SATURN BRAND
 In a viability plan submitted to the government, General Motors said that it would phase out its Saturn brand by 2012, and that it did not plan to develop any new vehicles for Saturn, which began 19 years ago as an effort to attract owners of small Japanese cars. It also said it was mulling over the future of its Pontiac division. PAGE B1
 Obituaries
 JOE CUBA, 78
 A band leader and conga player, he became known as the father of Latin boogaloo because of a string of innovative hit records in the 1960s and '70s that fused Latin and soul elements. He found commercial success by mixing rhythm and blues into his music and Spanish and English in his lyrics. PAGE B11
 Arts
 THEATER WORKSHOP MAY PRESENT PLAY CRITICAL OF ISRAELIS
 The New York Theater Workshop was criticized three years ago for canceling a play sympathetic to Palestinians. Now the theater could be wading into those controversial waters again, as it mulls whether to put on a new 10-minute piece by Caryl Churchill, ''Seven Jewish Children: A Play for Gaza,'' that at times paints heartless images of Israelis. PAGE C1
 LIVES DEFINED BY HURRICANES
 Dwight Garner's initial dislike for Dan Baum's ''Nine Lives,'' about Katrina and the people of New Orleans, dissipates around Page 65, where he writes that its disparate parts begin coming together masterfully. By the book's final third, he says, he was moved to tears in the coffee shop where he was reading, calling it ''this young year's most artful and emotionally resonating nonfiction book so far.'' PAGE C1 
 BITE-SIZED BAD BEHAVIOR
 Seth Schiesel writes that the latest chapter in the Grand Theft Auto franchise, ''The Lost and the Damned,'' gets much of what's right about the series -- its irreverence and love of delinquency -- even if the smaller entry feels decidedly less epic. PAGE C1
 A SHAKEUP FOR FILM FESTIVALS
 In a move that promises to realign two of independent cinema's most powerful institutions, Geoffrey Gilmore has resigned his longtime post as director of the Sundance Film Festival to become creative director of Tribeca Enterprises, the New York company that oversees the Tribeca Film Festival. PAGE C3
 Music Review: 
 'Il Trovatore' at the Met C5
 Sports
 GIVING RODRIGUEZ A CHANCE 
 To Speak Out About Steroids
 Don Hooton started a foundation to fight steroid abuse after his son, a high school baseball player, committed suicide not long after he began taking steroids. So when Alex Rodriguez met with reporters at spring training in Tampa, Fla., Hooton was there, too, after the Yankee slugger volunteered to make appearances on the foundation's behalf. ''It's a start,'' George Vecsey writes. PAGE B12
 GETTING THE STORY STRAIGHT
 Alex Rodriguez's news conference, raised as many questions as it answered. When, exactly, did he stop taking steroids? And which steroids was he taking? PAGE B14 
 KNICKS BEAT SPURS AND END SKID
 In the aftermath of their previous losses to the Lakers, Cavaliers and Celtics, the Knicks regrouped after the All-Star Break and defeated the Spurs, 112-107 in overtime, to halt a grim six-game losing streak. PAGE B16 
 Dining
 NOT REALLY A TWIST, BUT MORE LIKE A RELOCATION
 Pancakes, doughnuts, French toast and even soggy cornflakes -- these used be the things that breakfasts were made of. But chefs have taken a slight detour with tradition, combining traditional breakfast items like these to create winning dessert combinations, so you can finish your last meal with the most important one of the day. Page D1
 The Minimalist 
 Breakfast Pizza on Purpose
 This isn't the same as dining on last night's cold pie that languished on the coffee table. If you're having a doughnut for dessert, why not a pizza for breakfast? Page D1 
 YOUR TAB AT THE CLUBHOUSE
 Sette Mezzo on the Upper East Side has a client roster that reads like a museum donation plaque. With its high prices, cash-only policy and prominent clientele, many of whom have house accounts, the restaurant's feeling of a private place for a select few is cemented. Page D1 
 Food Stuff: 
 Pans That Take the Heat D3 
 Family Recipes for Success D3 
 A Cafe Worthy of a Curtain Call D3 
 A Good Appetite 
 Organized Chaos in the Kitchen
 Before marriage, writes Melissa Clark, there was a time of great spontaneity in the kitchen -- meals could materialize from nearly any combination. Years later, such order has reigned that there may even be, an occasion of shock and awe, a shopping list. But sometimes those old days creep back in. Sometimes. Page D3 
 Wines of the Times 
 In the Shadows of Burgundy
 In the region of Burgundy, the Cote d'Or is the titan. It receives the accolades, the attention and, of course, the money. Perhaps there is a new age dawning for this oft-forgotten place, writes Eric Asimov. Page D6 
 Restaurants 
 A Sort of International Chinese
 At Shang, you're treated to a culinary version of global expansion and multiculturalism. There is familiar Chinese fare, but there are also hints of the local foods from regions in which Chinese people have settled over the years, writes Frank Bruni. But the delightful variety doesn't bridge the gap over the sometimes inconsistent. Page D7 
 $25 and Under 
 African Flavor Within Blocks
 Geographically, Fort Greene and Africa are far apart. But not by taste. At Abistro, Bati and Kif, you can sample the west, east and north of that faraway continent. Page D7 
 Editorial
 AN $80 BILLION DOWN PAYMENT
 Wrapped inside the economic stimulus package is about $80 billion in spending that, as a stand-alone measure, would amount to the biggest energy bill in history. As ambitious as it is, dealing with the problem of climate change will require a much broader strategy. But this is a useful down payment and should begin to help reduce the nation's reliance on foreign oil. PAGE 26 
 UNFINISHED CASE OF MAHER ARAR
 President Obama can demonstrate his commitment to human rights and the rule of law by addressing the case of Maher Arar, the most well-known victim of the Bush administration's notorious policy of extraordinary rendition. An apology and an offer to compensate him for his injuries are long overdue. PAGE 26 
 IS THAT FABULOUS NEW TOY SAFE?
 As many parents learned the hard way, the Bush administration did not make the safety of toys and other products a priority. The Obama administration now has an opportunity to fill that regulatory gap by appointing new leadership for the Consumer Product Safety Commission. PAGE 26 
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 There are nine bodies -- all of them young men -- that have been lying in a Mumbai hospital morgue since Nov. 29. They may be stranded there for a while because no Muslim charity is willing to bury them. This is good news. PAGE 27 
 THE BAILOUT AND THE BANKS
 In an Op-Ed article, John C. Coates and David S. Scharfstein, both Harvard professors, blame the government for giving money to bank holding companies instead of banks. In a second article, James Deitrick and Michael Granof, professors at the University of Texas, argue that banks receiving bailout money should follow the same accounting practices as nonprofits. PAGE 27 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRISONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MAMMALS (83%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); GENOCIDE (76%); JURY TRIALS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TORTURE (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); AIRLINES (70%); VERDICTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); WILDLIFE (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%) SRI LANKA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); EGYPT (92%); CUBA (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



717 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Signing Stimulus, Obama Doesn't Rule Out More

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
President Obama has not ruled out a second stimulus package, his press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said on Tuesday, just before Mr. Obama signed his $787 billion recovery package into law with a statement that it would ''set our economy on a firmer foundation.''
 The president said he would not pretend ''that today marks the end of our economic problems.'' 
 ''Nor does it constitute all of what we have to do to turn our economy around,'' Mr. Obama said at the signing ceremony in the Denver Museum of Nature and Science. ''But today does mark the beginning of the end, the beginning of what we need to do to create jobs for Americans scrambling in the way of layoffs.'' 
 Mr. Gibbs, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One on the way to Denver, said, ''I think the president is going to do what's necessary to grow this economy.'' While ''there are no particular plans at this point for a second stimulus package,'' he added, ''I wouldn't foreclose it.''
 Mr. Obama began the first leg of a two-day trip, using the museum ceremony to spotlight the bill's clean-energy provisions. The president will also visit Phoenix, where he will unveil his new housing plan on Wednesday. 
 After a bruising legislative battle on the stimulus bill, which drew only three supporting votes from Republicans in the Senate and none in the House, the White House is trying to recapture the debate over the economy. Mr. Obama's message is that the bill will create or save 3.5 million jobs over the next two years.
 While the bill has been criticized by conservatives as bloated with pork-barrel spending, it has also been criticized by the left as too tepid and not bold enough to jumpstart the economy. Mr. Gibbs's remarks on the plane seemed to echo that concern. 
 In describing the package, the press secretary called it ''a strong start towards economic viability'' and ''the beginning of getting our economy back on track.''
 While he was still president-elect, Mr. Obama originally envisioned spending somewhere between $675 billion and $775 billion on the recovery package, and the final number comes close to that. But the bill approved by Congress included $70 billion in tax cuts, which some economists believe will not create as many new jobs as $70 billion in spending would.
 The Denver-Phoenix swing is meant to put the spotlight on the difficulties faced by ordinary Americans around the country. In Denver, the unemployment rate jumped to 6.3 percent at the end of last year from 5.8 percent in November. The city has been hard-hit by foreclosures -- in December, metropolitan Denver had more foreclosures than regular home sales -- and so has Phoenix.
 Before the signing ceremony, Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. toured a solar-panel installation and visited with officials of Namaste Solar, a Boulder-based company that the White House has singled out in an effort to spotlight the legislation's clean energy provisions. 
 The company, owned by its staff, has grown quickly, expanding to 60 from three employees over the past three years. The White House says that without the stimulus bill, Namaste expected to lay off as many as half its workers in 2009. The bill will enable the company to hire 20 additional workers, the administration said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TAX LAW (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); FORECLOSURE (66%); CONSERVATISM (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



718 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: California, Almost Broke, Nears Brink

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The state of California -- its deficits ballooning, its lawmakers intransigent and its governor apparently bereft of allies or influence -- appears headed off the fiscal rails. 
 Since the fall, when lawmakers began trying to attack the gaps in the $143 billion budget that their earlier plan had not addressed, the state has fallen into deeper financial straits, with more bad news coming daily from Sacramento. The state, nearly out of cash, has laid off scores of workers and put hundreds more on unpaid furloughs. It has stopped paying counties and issuing income tax refunds and halted thousands of infrastructure projects. 
 The Schwarzenegger administration sent out notices on Tuesday that 20,000 state jobs were being eliminated. Ten-thousand of those workers would be assigned to new jobs, said Matt David, the communications director Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, and 10,000 people would be laid off. The notices were sent by United States mail, but the actual process of laying people off takes about six months, Mr. David said. 
 In addition, the state, citing a lack of money, shut down 276 highway, prison and other infrastructure programs that had been exempted from an earlier halting of projects because of budget problems.
 California has also lost access to much of the credit markets, nearly unheard of among state municipal bond issuers. Recently, Standard & Poor's downgraded the state's bond rating to the lowest in the nation. 
 Lawmakers have been negotiating since Saturday afternoon -- pulling an all-nighter that evening -- on a series of budget bills that would have closed a projected $41 billion deficit, but have failed to close a deal.
 On Tuesday, the floor debate began once again, with a vociferous debate about gas taxes interrupted somewhat oddly at one point to recognize Capt. Chesley B. Sullenberger III, the pilot who successfully glided U.S. Airways Flight 1549 into the Hudson River in New York last month with no loss of life nor any serious injuries. 
 Discussions were expected to stretch on through the afternoon Tuesday in Sacramento, where Democrats seemed essentially to be trying to figure out some way to mollify State Senator Abel Maldonado, a Republican, who wants many non-budget-related bills tucked into the package, including one calling for open primary election. 
 During a news conference with reporters, the president pro tempore of the State Senate, Darrell Steinberg, said he would once again order lawmakers to stay in the capitol Tuesday until a deal was hammered out. Failure to reach agreement, he said, would be ''catastophic.''
 California's woes will almost certainly leave a jagged fiscal scar on the nation's most populous state, an outgrowth of the financial triptych of above-average unemployment, high foreclosure rates and plummeting tax revenues, and the state's unusual budgeting practices.
 ''No other state is in the kind of crisis that California is in,'' said Iris J. Lav, the deputy director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington.
 The roots of California's inability to address its budget woes are statutory and political. The state, unlike most others, requires a two-thirds majority vote in the Legislature to pass budgets and tax increases. And its process for creating voter initiatives hamstrings the budget process by directing money for some programs while depriving others of cash.
 In a Legislature dominated by Democrats, some of whom lean far to the left, leaders have been unable to gather enough support from Republican lawmakers, who tend on average to be more conservative than the majority of California's Republican voters and have unequivocally opposed all tax increases. 
 And then there is Governor Schwarzenegger, whose budget woes far outweigh those of his predecessor, Gray Davis, whom he drummed from office in a 2003 recall that stemmed from the state's fiscal problems at the time. The governor has failed to muster votes among lawmakers in his own party, whom he often opposes on ideological grounds, resulting in more scorn from Democrats.
 Furthermore, Republican leaders in the Senate and the Assembly who have agreed to get on board with a plan have been unable to persuade a few key lawmakers to join them. The package needs at least three Republican votes in each house, to join with the 51 Democrats in the Assembly and the 24 Democrats in the Senate. 
 For months Republicans have vowed not to raise taxes, which in California means no increase in either the sales, gas or personal income tax.
 ''It is a dramatic time,'' said Mr. Steinberg, the State Senate's president pro tempore. ''The solvency of the state is on the line. It is really quite a system where the fate of the state rests upon the shoulders of a couple of members of a minority party. The system frankly needs to be changed.''
 In the meantime, drivers are met with ''closed'' signs at Department of Motor Vehicles offices two days a month, environmental programs are left unattended, piles of dirt mark where highway lanes are to be built to ease the state's infamous traffic congestion, school systems mull layoffs and counties prepare to sue thes tate for nonpayment of bills.
 Last week, Mr. Schwarzenegger and the four legislative leaders concurred on a series of bills that included $15.1 billion in budget cuts, $14.4 billion in tax increases and $11.4 billion in borrowing, much of it subject to voter approval. 
 The Senate Republican leader, Dave Cogdill, said he thought he had all the votes needed to get the deal done in each house. But on Sunday, two Republican senators -- Dave Cox, who was originally thought to be the last vote needed, and Abel Maldonado, whom Mr. Schwarzenegger had been able to woo into voting against his party in the past -- said they would reject the plan.
 Democrats, who had already given into Republicans' long-held dreams of large tax cuts for small businesses and for some of the entertainment industry and a proposed $10,000 tax break for first-time home buyers, balked at Mr. Maldonado's request that the Legislature tuck a bill into the package that would allow voters to cross party lines in primaries. 
 ''I think with an open primary, we would have good government that would do the people's work,'' Mr. Maldonado said.
 Sunday evening ended in frustration and exhaustion for lawmakers, who returned to work on Monday facing the state's uncertain future. 
 ''My boss will continue to work toward a responsible budget solution,'' said Mr. Cogdill's spokeswoman, Sabrina Lockhart. ''There are real risks and real consequences for not passing a budget.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); FUEL TAX (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); AIRLINES (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); BOND ISSUES (65%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (61%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



719 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: City Must Prepare for Effects of Global Warming, Mayor's Panel Says

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
New York City must prepare for higher temperatures, more rain and an increased risk of coastal flooding in the coming decades as a result of global climate change, an advisory panel said on Tuesday. 
 The panel, formed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to study the potential effects of global warming on the city, said that mean annual temperatures in New York could increase by up to 3 degrees and the average sea levels rise by 2 to 5 inches by the 2020s. By the 2080s, temperatures could increase by up to 7 1/2 degrees, and sea levels could rise 12 to 23 inches by the end of the century, the panel said. 
 Cynthia Rosenzweig, a senior research scientist at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at Columbia University, who is the chairwoman of the panel, acknowledged that it was difficult to make predictions about the effects of climate change on specific regions and that climate models that attempt to do so carried uncertainties.
 But Dr. Rosenzweig said that the main value of the panel's research, which used climate models and local climate data, was to identify risks in order to make the city less vulnerable to them. ''We're providing the science by which the City of New York can get ready and prepare,'' she said.
 City officials said that to prepare for the expected effects of climate change, the city should plan to keep cooling centers for people without air-conditioning open longer during heat waves, move critical equipment in city buildings above sea level and incorporate climate changes into the design of buildings, among other measures.
 Higher temperatures could mean more brownouts and blackouts in the summer because of heavier electricity use on hot days, panel members said, and more flooding of streets and basements from intense rainstorms.
 The panel, made up of scientists and representatives of private companies, presented its findings at a news conference on Tuesday at the Rockaway Wastewater Treatment Plant in Queens, where the Department of Environmental Protection is moving electrical equipment like pump motors and circuit breakers to 14 feet above sea level from 25 feet below sea level.
 The issue of how to prepare for uncertain climate changes now goes to a second task force, made up of representatives of public agencies and private companies. That task force is expected to issue its report later this year as part of the timetable set by Mr. Bloomberg in his environmental agenda for New York City. 
 ''Planning for climate change today is less expensive than rebuilding an entire network after the catastrophe,'' the mayor said in response to the report. ''We cannot wait until after our infrastructure has been compromised to begin to plan for the effects of climate change now.''
 Rohit T. Aggarwala, the director of long-term planning and sustainability in the Mayor's Office of Operations, said that the city's economic crisis should not interfere with preparations for climate change. Much of the financial burden will be shouldered by private companies as they take steps to prepare, and other expenses can be built into the city's budget for capital projects, he said. ''You just build it into the way you do business.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); MAYORS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); CITIES (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); POWER FAILURES (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (63%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



720 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Governor Seeks to Furlough New Jersey State Workers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine on Tuesday proposed a two-day furlough for state workers to help close a widening budget gap and threatened layoffs if their unions do not agree to wage freezes starting in the summer. 
 The governor asked state employees last month to accept a wage freeze for the second half of this fiscal year, but union leaders have so far refused to renegotiate their contracts.
 Forcing state employees to take two days off without pay would save $35 million, the governor said at a news conference.
 ''Unprecedented action is necessary to keep the state on sound financial footing,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 Hetty Rosenstein, the state director of the Communications Workers of America, the largest state workers' union, said the furlough plan ''violates our contract and represents an assault on our collective-bargaining relationship with the state.''
 The proposal to furlough state workers in the spring is part of the governor's plan to cut $473 million more from the budget for the 2009 fiscal year in the face of a deepening recession.
 He cut state spending by $600 million before approving the state's $33 billion budget seven months ago, and last month proposed an additional $812 million in cuts on which the Legislature has not yet acted.
 Governor Corzine said that the cuts would have been even worse if New Jersey were not getting an estimated $850 million in federal stimulus money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



721 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Unbuffered by a 'Czar,' Obama Takes On Auto Crisis

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's decision to act as his own ''car czar'' means that in the next few months he faces decisions no American president has made since the invention of the automobile. 
 The most urgent among them: whether two of America's three surviving domestic carmakers should be forced into bankruptcy, how many more concessions should be extracted from unions that helped propel him into the Oval Office and, perhaps, even what kind of cars will be produced in the United States. 
 Even for an administration that is becoming the de facto decision maker for many of the nation's financial institutions, it is a huge step. 
 Starting on Wednesday morning, Mr. Obama and his top economic advisers will be taking on the role that for decades the Japanese government played with its carmakers. But in many ways it will be the Japanese model in reverse. 
 Japanese bureaucrats managed an industry on the rise, seeking to steal market share from lumbering American competitors. Mr. Obama finds himself in the position of managing an industry struggling to survive.
 Mr. Obama's first decision, his aides say, is whether his oft-stated commitment to make sure the country has a viable American auto industry selling ''cars made by Americans'' means that it is worth any price to keep General Motors and Chrysler afloat. The central question is how he defines ''American.'' 
 Theoretically, he could declare that the ''transplants'' owned by Japanese, South Korean and German companies, which have fared far better than the traditional American automakers in manufacturing cars here, are now the only viable components of the industry. While that might make economic sense, it would set off a political uproar, not least because they are nearly all nonunion plants. 
 Assuming he decides that he cannot let two icons of American carmaking disappear, Mr. Obama and his presidential task force -- headed by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers, the head of the National Economic Council -- face a second challenge. 
 Is it possible to press the carmakers, their bondholders and the unions into a reorganization so radical that it assures both ''viability'' and investments in a new generation of high-efficiency vehicles? Or can that happen only if they are forced into some form of bankruptcy proceeding?
 ''It's very difficult to imagine that the manufacturers or the unions will give up what they need to give up if they each think the government, ultimately, will bail them out,'' said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T. ''The bottom line is that we should have let them go bankrupt a few months ago, because it is the only way to avoid months and months of posturing.''
 While Chrysler and G.M. talked about the plans they submitted to the White House on Tuesday as if they were settled strategy for the next few years, Mr. Obama's advisers made it clear that they would treat the plans as opening arguments. 
 On Tuesday night, the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, talked about the plans as a starting point, saying ''it is clear that going forward more will be required from everyone involved -- creditors, suppliers, dealers, labor and auto executives.''
 The G.M. plan calls for eliminating roughly a fifth of its work force this year -- 47,000 jobs out of 244,000 globally -- and closing five more plants than previously scheduled. The company is seeking $12 billion in loans, in addition to the $18 billion it said it needed in December. While that figure might have seemed shocking a few months ago, $30 billion is less than 4 percent of the stimulus plan that Mr. Obama signed on Tuesday. Chrysler said it needed an additional $9 billion.
 Two months ago, the Bush White House intended for these plans to be evaluated by a ''car czar,'' who could insulate the president from the bare-knuckled negotiations sure to follow. But Mr. Obama, officials say, was never enamored of the idea.
 In the end, a senior official said, ''the decisions coming down the road are so big that only the president can make them.'' Whether that turns out to be politically courageous or foolhardy, it means that Mr. Obama himself will have to make sure, as he said a few weeks ago, that ''everyone has some skin in the game.''
 So for the next few weeks, his advisers will be arguing over the size of work forces, the level of benefits and maybe even the type and number of cars to be made.
 ''There's good reason to wonder why the government would be any better at doing this than the management at the companies,'' Mr. Cusumano said.
 In Japan's case, the government was sometimes ignored: Soichiro Honda, the man who founded the company that bears his name, paid no heed to a government mandate that he should make motorcycles, not cars. 
 But Mr. Obama will hold most of the cards in these negotiations: the government, while not a shareholder in the companies, will be a bondholder with an attitude. Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers will be able to say to the automakers that unless they come to agreement, they could be forced into the hands of a bankruptcy judge, over whom they would hold no political sway. 
 The question is whether the companies call their bluff. To navigate the negotiations, the Treasury has signed on Ron Bloom, who built a reputation in negotiations over the restructuring of the steel industry as someone who demanded skin from manufacturers and unions alike.
 One partial solution might be for the government to assume the health care and retirement benefits of the Big Three. But that would be expensive for American taxpayers for decades. 
 In the meantime, the auto industry -- like the financial industry -- will essentially be run from inside the Treasury.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The president has named Ron Bloom as negotiator.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); MARKET SHARE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



722 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Outpaces a Weak Economy

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
After posting results that showed it was benefiting more than any American retailer from the recession, Wal-Mart Stores proffered some new year's resolutions: hang on to its millions of new customers for the long haul, and widen its influence on national issues like the environment, energy and health care. 
 On the surface, Wal-Mart's profits were hardly spectacular, falling 7.7 percent for the three months that ended Jan. 31. But that was mainly because of one-time factors and currency fluctuations. The company's sales for the quarter set a record and beat Wall Street expectations, sending shares up sharply on Tuesday to close at $48.24. 
 The nation's largest retailer is gaining market share at a time when most chains are foundering. The Wal-Mart maxim -- ''save money, live better'' -- ''has galvanized the entire organization around a common purpose,'' Eduardo Castro-Wright, vice chairman of Wal-Mart, said in a recorded call for investors on Tuesday. 
 The company's new president and chief executive, Michael T. Duke, in some of his most extensive public remarks since taking over the retailer three weeks ago, emphasized that Wal-Mart would continue several initiatives begun by his predecessor, H. Lee Scott Jr., including a focus on environmental issues.
 ''We will accelerate and broaden our commitment to sustainability,'' Mr. Duke said on Tuesday. ''It is a permanent part of our culture. We will continue to work with our suppliers, merchants and customers to remove waste and make a difference in the world.'' 
 Without giving specifics, Mr. Duke added that Wal-Mart ''made a commitment to work with President Barack Obama's administration, and with the Democrat and Republican leadership in Congress,'' to help solve health care and energy issues. 
 For the three months that ended Jan. 31, Wal-Mart's profit was $3.8 billion, or 96 cents a share, compared with $4.1 billion, or $1.02 share, a year ago. That included a charge from settling dozens of class-action lawsuits in which the company was accused of systematically cheating workers out of wages. Wal-Mart's results were also hurt by the performance of its international and Sam's Club divisions. 
 Still, sales at United States stores open at least a year, a barometer of retail health known as same-store sales, increased 2.8 percent (not including fuel) for the three months that ended Jan. 31, compared with 1.7 percent for the period a year ago. 
 Over all, for the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31, the company said its profit increased 3 percent to $13.3 billion, or $3.35 a share, compared with $12.9 billion, or $3.16 a share, a year earlier. Same-store sales for the year were up 3.3 percent, not including fuel, compared with 1.4 percent the previous year. 
 ''The business model that Sam Walton created is perfectly positioned for the environment we live in now,'' said Mr. Duke, harking back to something Mr. Scott said last year. ''I do believe this is Wal-Mart's time.''
 Wal-Mart said it is benefiting from its low prices, particularly on necessities like groceries, as more consumers shun restaurants. 
 ''Nowhere has price leadership been more important to our customers than in grocery,'' Mr. Castro-Wright said, adding, ''we continue to increase the price gaps between our competitors and Wal-Mart in food and consumables.'' He noted that the company has been able to do that without hurting its profit margins. 
 With more consumers trading down to Wal-Mart, Mr. Castro-Wright said, ''We intend to keep them.''
 Wal-Mart has already taken market share from consumer electronics retailers by stocking its shelves with popular brands and products, like Apple's iPhone. Even in this economy, it has enjoyed double-digit sales growth from big-ticket items like flat panel televisions and game systems. 
 ''Wealthier customers are rediscovering Wal-Mart,'' said Bill Dreher, senior retailing analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. ''No one is feeling as rich as they used to. All of a sudden, Wal-Mart looks a lot better.''
 The retailer has spent the last few years cleaning up its stores and speeding up the once-laborious checkout process, which Wal-Mart executives say has helped win over customers. 
 Wal-Mart's weakest divisions for the period that ended Jan. 31 were Sam's Club, which caters to small business owners, and Wal-Mart International. 
 At Sam's Club, holiday sales, as well as sales of discretionary items like furniture, exercise equipment and fine jewelry, suffered. The club's restaurant supplies category was also soft, indicating that small restaurant and food service companies were ailing. There was essentially no sales growth for the three months that ended Jan. 31. 
 Sales for that period fell 8.4 percent at Wal-Mart International, which was hurt by currency fluctuations. ''The global economic slowdown is affecting all our markets,'' said Doug McMillon, president and chief executive of Wal-Mart International. 
 Wal-Mart's apparel sales were also weak, though the same could be said of nearly every retailer. Clothing sales throughout the industry have been abysmal, with many consumers making do with their old garb.
 Wal-Mart estimated earnings will be 72 to 77 cents a share for the reporting period from Jan. 31 through May 1, and $3.45 to $3.60 for the full year. It expects same-store sales for Jan. 31 through May 1 to increase 1 to 3 percent, not including fuel. The company -- which had suspended its stock repurchase program, citing the uncertain economy -- said it would resume buying back stock. 
 Also this week, Wal-Mart said it was cutting the price of its refillable, prepaid Visa debit card to $3 from $8.94. Jane J . Thompson, president of financial services at Wal-Mart, said customers who live paycheck to paycheck use the card as an alternative to bank accounts because they can avoid paying high overdraft fees. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The nation's largest retailer is gaining market share at a time when most chains are struggling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (66%); CLASS ACTIONS (65%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (65%); CURRENCIES (55%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); SAM'S CLUB (62%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (78%); H LEE SCOTT JR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



723 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: A Leader in the Senate Sees Sunny Skies for Democrats

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; A previous version of this article did not note that Robert Menendez was incorrect in saying that President Obama had won Missouri during the general election.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
To hear Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey describe it, Democrats are going to sweep the table in the Senate races next year. 
 Mr. Menendez, who took over as head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee from Senator Charles Schumer of New York, saw only sunny skies as he looked ahead to the first Senate elections that will take place in the post-Schumer era.
 One reason is that Republicans have to defend 19 seats, compared with just 17 for Democrats. On top of that, Republicans are retiring from seats in five states: Ohio, Florida, Missouri, Kansas and New Hampshire. As Mr. Menendez noted, that would be an advantage for Democrats in any year, since it's much easier to win an open seat than unseat an incumbent, but it's particularly significant this time around, in a political climate that, at least for the moment, seems to give big advantages to the Democrats. 
 ''Four of those five states were carried by President Obama, and several by very significant margins,'' he said.
 (In fact, as Mr. Menendez's aides acknowledged later, Mr. Obama carried three of those states --Florida, Ohio and New Hampshire -- though John McCain, the Republican, won by the slimmest of margins in Missouri).
 The other reason Mr. Menendez expressed such optimism about Democratic prospects next year is the economy. First, he said, Republicans will continue to pay a price for the economic crisis, as Democrats argue that the economic policies of George W. Bush produced today's job losses, mortgage foreclosures and the collapse of the banking system.
 For example, he pointed to Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, a member of the House leadership who is positioning himself to run for the Senate seat being vacated by Kit Bond, one of the five retiring Republicans.
 ''I'd hate to be him, and explaining my votes on the Bush positions,'' Mr. Menendez said of Mr. Blunt. ''They got their ideas into law. It created one of the worst economies I have ever seen.''
 Echoing the view of other Democratic leaders, he said that Republicans would also pay a price for voting overwhelmingly against the economic stimulus bill Mr. Obama is set to sign on Tuesday. 
 The bill passed with the support of just three Republican senators. Mr. Martinez said that the vote would be remembered as a defining moment for the two parties, and would shadow Republicans going into the 2010 election.
 ''The Republicans are in denial as to where the economy is and how desperate it is,'' he said. ''They are in essence betting against the president and against an economic recovery.'' 
 He offered the line of attack at his first briefing for reporters on the race, held at a conference room at Democratic National Committee headquarters. It certainly sounded timely. 
 But will it be quite as timely 18 months from now, when these races are fully engaged?
 Democrats can be forgiven for wanting to continue to run against former President George W. Bush. But the extent to which Mr. Bush has vanished from public sight suggests that he may not be the powerful political symbol in 2010 that he was for Democratic congressional candidates in 2006 and 2008.
 Right now, voters may hold Republicans responsible for the economic collapse, as Mr. Martinez argued; the election results in November suggested just how powerful a problem this is for the party. 
 Still, Republicans have already begun pushing back on a number of fronts. Michael Steele, the new party chairman, is pointing out that the recession began after Democrats had taken control of Congress following the 2006 election. His assertion is technically correct -- the economic group that decides such things places the start of the recession in December 2007 -- but it is not clear whether it will play politically, given how dominant Mr. Bush and the Republicans were in setting economic policy throughout the first half of the decade. 
 Still, it does suggest that there is ample blame to spread around, and that the picture might not be quite as clear in November 2010.
 The most obvious problem for Republicans would be if the economy were to turn around over the next two or four years -- whether because the stimulus plan works or just as a result of the normal turning of the economic cycle. Republican leaders argue that, in an era when issues move across the stage so quickly, the vote this week will not appear as consequential in 2010 or 2012 as Democrats today like to argue. 
 ''The American public is not going to be waking up one morning four years from now and say, 'What a great economy! It all goes back to that vote that the Democrats passed on the stimulus bill,' '' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip. ''It's just not simple.''
 Mr. Menendez and other Democrats, on the other hand, argue that it really is that simple. 
 But what if the economy has not begun to show signs of recovery by 2010 -- or, for that matter, by 2012, when Mr. Obama will presumably be running for re-election? Will voters blame Democrats for pushing through an expensive and ineffective boondoggle, or credit them for fighting through Republican resistance? 
 ''I think at the end of the day, acting to turn this economy around is going to look a lot better than just being naysayers,'' Mr. Menendez said. ''I think that's a tough game plan for the Republicans to pursue, whether its February of 2009 or October of 2010.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); FORECLOSURE (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (91%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); KIT BOND (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); ROY BLUNT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



724 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: The Unfinished Case of Maher Arar

 BODY:
The troubled world economy will almost certainly top the agenda when President Obama meets Thursday with Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, in Ottawa. We hope the two leaders will also take the time to discuss the painful case of Maher Arar. 
 Mr. Arar, a Syrian-born Canadian, is the most well-known victim of the Bush administration's notorious policy of extraordinary rendition, or the outsourcing of interrogations to foreign governments known to use torture. Former President George W. Bush and his aides stubbornly refused to admit the grave injustice done to Mr. Arar. President Obama must do better. 
 Mr. Arar was seized at Kennedy International Airport in 2002 as he tried to change planes on his way home to Canada from a family vacation. He was held in solitary confinement and subjected to harsh questioning before being sent to Syria. He was tortured there and imprisoned for nearly a year in an underground cell the size of a grave until the Syrians finally let him go. 
 In 2007, Mr. Harper's government set an admirable example of decency. After an extensive investigation that concluded Mr. Arar had no ties to terror, Canada offered him a formal apology and compensation worth millions of dollars for providing the unsubstantiated information to American officials that helped trigger his nightmare.
 By contrast, the Bush administration stonewalled the Canadian inquiry and brushed off Mr. Harper's request that the United States, which bears the bulk of responsibility for Mr. Arar's abuse, acknowledge ''inappropriate conduct.'' When Mr. Arar sued the United States for denying him his civil rights, the Bush administration -- predictably -- argued that for reasons of national security the case should never be allowed to come to trial. 
 The question of whether those and other similarly unconvincing claims are sufficient to block Mr. Arar from having his case tried is now pending before the full Second Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan.
 Last week, in a rendition case argued in San Francisco, Mr. Obama's Justice Department sent a troubling signal of continuity by embracing the extravagant state-secrets claims pioneered by the Bush administration. In Mr. Arar's case, the secrecy claims are even more baseless in light of the widespread publicity about his treatment, and the published findings by the Canadians.
 Mr. Harper should press the American president on Mr. Arar's behalf. President Obama can demonstrate his commitment to human rights and the rule of law by addressing Mr. Arar's case. He should pledge to review the case, including any questions raised by security officials. His administration should also issue a full report on Mr. Arar's mistreatment, along with an apology, and an offer to compensate him for his injuries. All are long overdue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TORTURE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); AIRPORTS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



725 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Turbines on the Tundra

BYLINE: By STEFAN MILKOWSKI

DATELINE: TOKSOOK BAY, Alaska 

 BODY:
Beyond the fishing boats, the snug homes and the tanks of diesel fuel marking this Eskimo village on the Bering Sea, three huge wind turbines tower over the tundra. Their blades spin slowly in a breeze cold enough to freeze skin.
 One of the nation's harshest landscapes, it turns out, is becoming fertile ground for green power. 
 As interest in cleaning up power generation grows around the country, Alaska is fast becoming a testing ground for new technologies and an unlikely experiment in oil-state support for renewable energy. Alaskans once cast a wary eye on anything smacking of environmentalism, but today they are investing heavily in green power, not so much to reduce emissions as to save cash.
 In remote villages like this one, where diesel to power generators is shipped by barge and can cost more than $5 a gallon in bulk, electricity from renewable sources like wind is already competitive with power made from fossil fuels. In urban areas along the state's limited road system, large wind and hydroelectric projects are also becoming attractive. 
 Alaska produces more oil than any state except Texas, but most of it leaves the state. Small markets and high transportation costs have kept local fuel prices high. As oil prices spiked last year, the state's coffers overflowed with oil tax revenue, but the rising cost of diesel and other fuels became a local crisis. 
 Gov. Sarah Palin and state lawmakers responded last year by pledging $300 million over five years in renewable energy grants to utilities, independent power producers or local governments. It is a substantial sum for a state with only 670,000 residents. 
 ''Oil used to be cheap and convenient,'' said Steve Haagenson, appointed last year by Ms. Palin as statewide energy coordinator. ''Today, it's just convenient.''
 Advocates of renewable energy here say Alaska, with its windy coasts, untapped rivers and huge tidal and wave resources, could quickly become a national leader. The state already generates 24 percent of its electricity from renewable sources -- almost exclusively hydroelectric -- and Ms. Palin last month announced a goal of 50 percent by 2025. ''Today's current low oil prices should not lull Alaskans into a false sense of security, as if these low prices are going to last,'' she said. 
 Environmentalists concerned about the impacts of climate change, already widely apparent in Alaska, have strongly backed the state investments in renewable energy. But the driving force among politicians was economic.
 In many rural areas of the state, high fuel costs have resulted in electricity prices of up to 75 cents or more per kilowatt-hour, five to 10 times the prices common in the Lower 48. Despite high installation costs and the need for cold-weather engineering, wind turbines can often produce power at a lower cost than diesel generators by eliminating the need for fuel.
 The Kotzebue Electric Association in northwest Alaska first demonstrated the value of utility-scale wind power in Alaska in 1997. Since then, nine other rural communities have added turbines, and dozens more are pursuing projects. 
 A state review completed in 2008 found that wind power was technically and most likely economically feasible in more than 100 Alaska villages, according to Martina Dabo, who oversees wind power programs at the Alaska Energy Authority, a public corporation whose mission is to reduce the cost of energy.
 Northern Power Systems, a small turbine manufacturer in Barre, Vt., has capitalized on Alaska's new interest in wind. The company initially designed its 100-kilowatt turbine for operation at the South Pole, not a huge market. ''We said, 'Hey, there's a market in Alaska -- let's go after it,' '' said Brett Pingree, the company's vice president for sales.
 Northern Power now has turbines in eight Alaska villages, including Toksook Bay, and is working on projects in 45 others.
 Renewable energy is also becoming attractive along the Railbelt, the area stretching from Seward to Fairbanks where most of the state's residents live. While electric prices are lower than in the remote villages, renewable power would help guard against future price spikes. A wind farm is under development for an island near Anchorage, and other projects are being studied, including a pair of dams that could meet the entire Railbelt demand.
 ''I think the Railbelt's waking up to the reality that the era of cheap natural gas is over,'' said Chris Rose, who oversees a coalition of public and private groups called the Renewable Energy Alaska Project. 
 While remote locations and limited demand hamper their development, Alaska's renewable resources are vast and diverse compared with those of other states. According to Roger Bedard of the Electric Power Research Institute, Alaska has more than half the country's ocean wave energy resources and more than 90 percent of its river current and tidal resources.
 In Toksook Bay, residents credit the wind turbines with keeping electric bills from rising as fast as the price of oil.
 ''I think the turbines are very, very helpful,'' said Alexie Jimmie, who owns Bayview, one of the two stores in Toksook Bay. ''Otherwise, we probably would pay way more than what we are paying.''
 The state subsidizes electricity for residential customers in rural areas, but only to a degree. Mr. Jimmie's recent monthly bills came to $371.14 for his house and $713.12 for the small store where he sells items like cereal and spark plugs. 
 Officials with the Alaska Village Electric Cooperative, which serves Toksook Bay and 52 other communities, estimate the turbines in Toksook Bay will pay for themselves through fuel savings in about 17 years, and will last 20 to 25 years.
 To make the most of the resource, the cooperative and other power providers are developing systems with electronically controlled diesel generators that can rapidly adjust their output, electric heaters that can absorb excess power and other tools for dealing with the variability of wind. The result is hybrid power systems that generate 25 percent or more of their power from wind on an annual basis.
 ''Right now Alaska is really the front-runner in wind-diesel applications,'' said Ms. Dabo of the Alaska Energy Authority. ''We take the steps from an engineering drawing board and really put those systems into place.'' 
 The Chena Hot Springs Resort near Fairbanks is testing new geothermal technologies, and villages along the Yukon River are experimenting with using river current to make power.
 The plunge in oil prices has caused some lawmakers to question the state's ambitious investments in renewable energy, but Ms. Palin and others argue it is critical to push ahead. The Alaska Energy Authority released a hefty report last month assessing the feasibility of alternative energy projects in every rural community in the state. 
 Village residents, who are still paying high prices because of the spike in fuel costs last summer, like the idea of expanding the wind farm there. 
 ''Jobs are scarce,'' said Francis Sipary, assistant manager at the Nunakauiak Yupik Corporation store, ''and members can't afford to pay so much dollars the way the economy's going.'' 
 Mr. Sipary, who like many people here hunts and fishes, added that the turbines were nice for another reason. They can be seen from a boat 20 miles at sea, so the people of Toksook Bay now use the wind turbines to find their way home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Where diesel runs over $5 a gallon, wind power makes fiscal sense now.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN MILKOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The turbine manufacturer Northern Power Systems has units in eight Alaska villages, including Toksook Bay, above, and is pursing projects in 45 others.
 Ben Charlie fills an oil tank for Toksook Bay's Head Start building. It came to $432 for 55 gallons.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFAN MILKOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (72%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); BERING SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



726 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: For Uninsured Young Adults, Do-It-Yourself Medical Care

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
They borrow leftover prescription drugs from friends, attempt to self-diagnose ailments online, stretch their diabetes and asthma medicines for as long as possible and set their own broken bones. When emergencies strike, they rarely can afford the bills that follow.
 ''My first reaction was to start laughing -- I just kept saying, 'No way, no way,' '' Alanna Boyd, a 28-year-old receptionist, recalled of the $17,398 -- including $13 for the use of a television -- that she was charged after spending 46 hours in October at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan with diverticulitis, a digestive illness. ''I could have gone to a major university for a year. Instead, I went to the hospital for two days.''
 In the parlance of the health care industry, Ms. Boyd, whose case remains unresolved, is among the ''young invincibles'' -- people in their 20s who shun insurance either because their age makes them feel invulnerable or because expensive policies are out of reach. Young adults are the nation's largest group of uninsured -- there were 13.2 million of them nationally in 2007, or 29 percent, according to the latest figures from the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit research group in New York. 
 Gov. David A. Paterson of New York has proposed allowing parents to claim these young adults as dependents for insurance purposes up to age 29, as more than two dozen other states have done in the past decade. Community Catalyst, a Boston-based health care consumer advocacy group, released a report this month urging states to ease eligibility requirements to allow adult children access to their parents' coverage. 
 ''There's a big sense of urgency,'' said Susan Sherry, the deputy director of Community Catalyst. She described uninsured young adults as especially vulnerable. ''People are losing their jobs, and a lot of jobs don't carry health insurance. They're new to the work force, they've been covered under their parents or school plans, and then they drop off the cliff.''
 If Governor Paterson's proposal is approved, an estimated 80,000 of the 775,000 uninsured young adults across New York State would be covered under their parents' insurance plans. That would leave hundreds of thousands to continue relying on a scattershot network of improvised and often haphazard health care remedies. 
 In dozens of interviews around the city, these so-called young invincibles described the challenge of living in a high-priced city on low-paying jobs, where staying healthy is one part scavenger hunt and one part balancing act, with high stakes and no safety net.
 ''For a lot of people, it's a choice between being able to survive in New York and getting health insurance,'' said Hogan Gorman, an actress who was hit by a car five years ago and chronicled her misadventures in ''Hot Cripple,'' a one-woman show that was a hit at last summer's Fringe Festival. ''There was no way that I could pay my rent, buy insurance and eat.''
 Nicole Polec, a 28-year-old freelance photographer living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said she has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and has a client who procures Ritalin on her behalf from a sympathetic doctor who has seen Ms. Polec's diagnosis. Ms. Polec's roommate, Fara D'Aguiar, 26, treated her last flu with castoff amoxicillin -- ''probably expired,'' she said -- given to her by a friend.
 When Robert Voris last had health insurance, in 2007, he stockpiled insulin pumps, which are inserted under the skin to constantly monitor blood-sugar levels and administer the drug accordingly. He said the tubing for the pump costs $900 a month, so lately he has instead been injecting insulin with a syringe. But Mr. Voris, 27, a journalism student at the City University of New York who works at a restaurant in Park Slope, Brooklyn, is constantly worried about diabetes-induced seizures like the one that sent him to the hospital last summer. (Because it happened at work, his boss covered the ambulance and other bills.)
 ''That's definitely the concern: what happens if I have to pay for this?'' he said. ''And the answer, I guess, is credit cards. Hopefully it won't happen until I find a job that actually gives me insurance, which probably won't happen anytime in the near future, given the way the economy works.'' 
 Most family insurance policies cut off dependents when they turn 19 or finish college, and many young adults start out in New York cobbling together part-time or freelance work with no benefits. To qualify for Medicaid, a single adult can earn no more than $706 a month -- less than what a full-time minimum-wage earner makes. Yet the average insurance premium for a single adult is $900 a month, according to a spokesman for the State Insurance Department. 
 ''At this point, I can't really justify it monetarily,'' said Ian McElroy, a musician who moved to Bushwick, Brooklyn, from Omaha, last year. ''It's not like I think I'm invincible, I'm 29, the world can't touch me. It's the very opposite of that. I've got to make rent and eat.''
 With insurance out of reach, Mr. McElroy has taken to playing doctor, using online resources like WebMD, which offers medical news, descriptions of various diseases and drugs, and discussion groups. As he spoke, Mr. McElroy was icing his feet, which, one day in January, had become cripplingly painful; he was unable to walk.
 ''I think I have plantar fasciitis,'' he said. ''I've been laid out for two weeks.''
 (Even if the Paterson proposal passes, Mr. McElroy, like Mr. Voris and Ms. Polec and her roommate, would not qualify because their parents live out of state.) 
 Internet diagnoses, self-medicating and trading prescriptions, of course, come with potentially dangerous side effects. Dr. Barbie Gatton, who has worked in emergency rooms throughout the city since 2002, said she often sees young people who have taken the wrong antibiotics borrowed from friends.
 ''We see people with urinary tract infections taking meds better suited for ear infections or pneumonia -- the problem is, they haven't really treated their illness, and they're breeding resistance,'' she explained. ''Or they take pain medicine that masks the symptoms. And this allows the underlying problem to get worse and worse.''
 There are clinics throughout the city that provide the young and uninsured free or cheap snippets of medical help, like the Community Healthcare Network mobile unit, which was parked in the East Village one snowy night. Lindsay Bellinger, 26, who does administrative work through a temp agency and lives in Astoria, Queens, said she relied on the mobile unit for pap smears and tests for sexually transmitted diseases.
 ''This takes care of gynecological work,'' Ms. Bellinger said. ''And I get a visit to the dentist from my parents as a Christmas gift.''
 Levon Aaron, who has asthma and works as a bouncer at a West Village bar, has not had insurance since he was 19. Mr. Aaron, now 23, said that his asthma attacks had been less frequent since he began playing handball and working out, but they had not gone away. He tries to use his inhalers sparingly, but four times in the past year he has found himself out of medicine during a severe attack and landed in the emergency room.
 In the hospital, he gets a prescription for a new inhaler, which costs about $30 to fill. But his outstanding bills total about $3,000, he said, an amount he cannot fathom paying. 
 Mr. Aaron was one of several young adults who said living without insurance meant trying to take better care of themselves.
 ''I've stopped eating fast food,'' said Santiago Betancour, who is 19 and lives in Rosedale, Queens. ''I'm eating rice, vegetables and fruits. And when I get sick, I exercise to sweat it off.''
 Of course, there are those who do feel invincible, like Eric Williams, who is 24, unemployed and currently in the middle of a six-week snowboarding adventure in Wyoming, Montana, Colorado, Utah, British Columbia and California. Mr. Williams said by cellphone near Bozeman, Mont., that he looked into buying health insurance before he left, but abandoned the idea after being unable to find anything for less than $400 a month. Instead, he is just trying to be careful, though not always with success.
 ''I've hit a couple of trees,'' Mr. Williams said. ''But I'm trying not to.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 18 about people in their 20s who, unable to afford health insurance, rely on a scattershot network of improvised remedies described incorrectly the operation of an insulin pump used by Robert Voris, 27, a diabetic who works at a restaurant in Brooklyn. The pump administers insulin but does not in fact monitor blood-sugar levels. The insulin is injected through intravenous tubing attached to the pump; the pump itself is not inserted under the skin. The article also misidentified the items Mr. Voris stockpiled in 2007, when he last had insurance. They were tubing and other supplies, not insulin pumps.
 Because of an editing error, the article also referred erroneously in some editions to the $706-a-month income limit for a single adult to qualify for Medicaid. That figure is less than what a full-time minimum-wage worker would earn -- not more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alanna Boyd, 28, received bills totaling $17,398 after being treated for diverticulitis at a Manhattan hospital in October. Ms. Boyd is one of the nation's 13.2 million uninsured young adults. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Santiago Betancour, 19, outside the Community Healthcare Network's mobile unit, which offers free medical consultations. He said he has started avoiding fast food in an effort to stay healthy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COLON DISEASE (73%); ASTHMA (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); DIABETES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); LAYOFFS (61%); DISMISSALS (61%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



727 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks Adds Instant To Its Menu

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER; C. J. Hughes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In Howard Schultz's 1997 book about developing Starbucks, he wrote, ''Nothing pains me more than hearing critics compare Starbucks to a chain of discount stores or fast-food operations.'' 
 On Tuesday, the man who set out to improve Americans' taste in coffee, unveiled instant coffee bearing the Starbucks brand. Packages of Via Ready Brew will appear in Starbucks shops in Seattle and Chicago on March 3, the same day that Starbucks will begin offering breakfast value meals in stores nationwide. 
 Selling instant coffee and serving value meals might sound more like the purview of an American convenience store and less like that of an Italian espresso bar. Water-soluble coffee is a gamble, marketing analysts said. It could lure customers who drink fast-food or grocery store coffee, or it could water down the Starbucks brand. 
 But Mr. Schultz said he was ready for the critics who say, ''This is desperate, this is a Hail Mary pass, this is off-brand for Starbucks.'' 
 ''We are going to reinvent the company, reinvent the category,'' he told a group of Wall Street analysts, journalists and retailers on Tuesday at a tasting of the new product in New York. ''This is not your mother's instant coffee.'' 
 The instant coffee is available online at the company's Web site in two varieties, Colombia and Italian Roast. Along with Seattle and Chicago Starbucks stores, Costco and Target will start selling it this spring. Starbucks will introduce it in its stores worldwide by the fall and it will be in grocery stores in 2010. 
 Starbucks found early success because it convinced people that coffee could be a luxury product. But that luxury has been one of the first to go as consumers cut back on spending. Sales at Starbucks stores fell 9 percent last quarter, and the company is closing 900 stores, out of roughly 16,800. The stock price has fallen 47 percent in the last year. Mr. Schultz has said he is working hard to convince customers that Starbucks is affordable. Starbucks is introducing its breakfast deals, which include $3.95 pairings like coffee cake or a ham-and-egg sandwich with coffee, in direct response to the lagging economy. 
 However, Mr. Schultz said that the instant coffee had nothing to do with the reduction in consumer spending and has been in the works for 16 years. 
 ''It just happens to fortuitously coincide with the downturn in the economy,'' he said. ''It wasn't planned that way.'' 
 Via is made from arabica beans turned into a powder and sold in packets the size of an index finger. Add hot or cold water and it becomes a cup of coffee. Though the company would not reveal its development process, Mr. Schultz said that ''thousands of people over the past year or so have been tasting that coffee blind, with comprehensive research.'' Starbucks has applied for a patent on the technology. 
 Still, he emphasized that the instant coffee will cost less than a dollar a cup -- 12 packets cost $9.95 -- while an eight-ounce cup of brewed coffee in Starbucks stores costs about $1.50. (Compared with the 20-cents-a-cup cost of Folgers Instant Coffee Singles, Via Ready is not for true penny pinchers.) 
 Despite Starbucks' ubiquity, not even one in 10 cups of coffee consumed in North America is made by Starbucks, the company said. Instant coffee is one way to get its product into more Americans' mugs. It is marketing Via as coffee that can be consumed between appointments, in the car, on a flight or in a cubicle. 
 Americans spend about $700 million on instant coffee, Starbucks says. But only 7 percent of Americans drink instant coffee on a daily basis, according to the National Coffee Association.
 The true opportunity for Starbucks instant coffee might be abroad, said Harry Balzer, a food and beverage analyst at the research firm NPD Group, where instant coffee is not considered the drink of elderly parents on a fixed income. 
 Instant coffee accounts for 40 percent of coffee sales globally, making it a $17 billion industry worldwide. In the United Kingdom, according to Starbucks, 81 percent of coffee sold is instant. And Starbucks will begin selling Via in London stores on March 25. Instant coffee could be an ideal way for Starbucks to expand its brand, said David Aaker, the vice chairman of Prophet, a marketing strategy consulting firm. 
 ''It's a risk, but they've done a lot of risky things that so far have worked out,'' he said. ''They've put their brand on airlines, into ice cream, in the supermarket.'' 
 ''People will have a relationship with Starbucks through their instant coffee that they didn't have before, and then some of those might start going to the coffee shops,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Via Ready Brew will be at some Starbucks on March 3.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Starbucks worker served Via Ready Brew to analysts, reporters and retailers Tuesday in New York as the chief executive, Howard Schultz, declared, ''This is not your mother's instant coffee.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); SALES & SELLING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (94%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



728 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 459 words

 BODY:
CARMAKERS WANT MORE MONEYGeneral Motors said it needed to increase its federal loan request to $30 billion, $12 billion more than it had initially sought, to avoid a bankruptcy filing. Chrysler said it would need a total of $9 billion, $2 billion more than its earlier request. 
 TRIMMING THE ROSTERG.M. said it would phase out its Saturn brand by 2012 and signaled that it would reduce the number of its marques to just four: Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC. [B1.]
 OBAMA'S AUTO DILEMMAPresident Obama must soon decide the fate of two of America's domestic carmakers and, perhaps, even what kinds of cars are produced in the United States. [B1.]
 MORE FRAUD CHARGES Federal regulators shut down Robert Allen Stanford's international investment operation, charging it was a fraud. Missing: $8 billion in investments and Mr. Stanford himself. [A1.]
 GLOBAL MARKET SLIDE A global wave of selling dragged down markets from Tokyo to London and Frankfurt to Brazil. [B1.]
 INITIATIVES FROM WAL-MART Wal-Mart, outperforming other American retailers, says it plans to widen its influence on national issues like the environment, energy and health care. [B3.]
 WIND POWER IN OIL-RICH ALASKA Alaska, the second-largest oil producer among American states, is finding it economical to use wind turbines for electricity in some places. [B1.]
 STARBUCKS, INSTANTLY The next container of coffee you carry home from Starbucks could be a bag of instant grind, as the ubiquitous retailer seeks to reinvent itself. [B1.]
 HOUSING BAILOUT'S FOCUS President Obama's housing bailout plan will focus on helping people who cannot afford their mortgages, not those who walk away from homes just because they have lost value. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [A1.]
 SWISS BANK SEEKS DISCLOSURECredit Suisse, under a widening investigation into foreign banks, is asking wealthy American clients with offshore accounts to sign special tax forms disclosing their names, addresses and taxpayer numbers. [B2.]
 CASINOS SEEK PROTECTION Days after Donald J. Trump quit the board of his Entertainment Resorts, it filed for bankruptcy protection, for the third time. [B2.]
 VODAFONE PICKS GOOGLE At the world's biggest mobile phone show, in Barcelona, the buzz is not so much about the phones as what's inside -- and Google emerged as a leader when Vodafone said it would use its software. [B5.]
 EARLY SWITCH TO DIGITAL TV More than 400 local television stations have stopped broadcasting in old-fashioned analog form, months before the rescheduled transition to digital TV, leaving many people without a signal. [B3.] 
 ADS THAT ARE OVER THE TOP The latest in the ad business is the ''cranial billboard'' -- paying people to shave their heads to display a tattooed advertisement. [B3.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (84%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); WIND POWER PLANTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (68%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



729 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: As Recovery Measure Becomes Law, the Partisan Fight Over It Endures

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ADAM NAGOURNEY; Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Denver, and Adam Nagourney from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
President Obama signed the $787 billion stimulus bill into law on Tuesday as leaders of both parties moved to position themselves for a political battle over who was responsible for the economy's problems and whether the legislation was the solution.
 In his second consecutive week of taking to the road for campaign-style appearances to build support for his agenda, Mr. Obama signed the measure here in the city where he was nominated, and delivered a speech that signaled in part the White House effort to gain political advantage. He listed initiatives in the bill, focusing on education and energy conservation, and offered examples of spending that would help specific states. 
 ''Now,'' he said, ''I don't want to pretend that today marks the end of our economic problems. Nor does it constitute all of what we're going to have to do to turn our economy around.
 ''But today does mark the beginning of the end: the beginning of what we need to do to create jobs for Americans scrambling in the wake of layoffs, the beginning of what we need to do to provide relief for families worried they won't be able to pay next month's bills, the beginning of the first steps to set our economy on a firmer foundation, paving the way to long-term growth and prosperity.'' 
 Even as Mr. Obama was signing the bill, Republicans were denouncing it as a waste of money. They asserted that it would not turn the economy around and that they were unified in ''disagreement with Congressional Democrats and President Obama,'' in the words of Michael Steele, the Republican national chairman.
 The division between the two parties over the bill's political repercussions was almost as stark as that over its substance. Leaders of the Democratic Senate and House campaign committees said in interviews that they would try to ensure that Republicans paid a price in 2010 for having opposed the measure. Not a single Republican in the House voted for the bill, and only three Republicans backed it in the Senate.
 Over the next few days, 30 first-term House Democrats will hold events in their districts highlighting how spending there can protect and create jobs and otherwise benefit those harmed by the downturn.
 Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said of the Republicans: ''Who am I to give these guys advice? But I do think they made a mistake. From our perspective, we are investing in confidence and success, and they are banking on fear and failure. I think that is a dichotomy that does not work for them.''
 Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff, said Republicans had undercut themselves with the vote.
 ''This is the party that just decided to vote against tax cuts,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''You have a lot of members on the line who voted against tax cuts, and they also voted against important measures on health care and energy, and we know both areas are highly valued by the American public. If you are the party of action versus the party of inaction, the party of action wins.''
 Republican leaders moved just as quickly to portray the bill as a boondoggle. Republican aides said they would seize on every instance of potential abuse as a way of stirring public doubt about the measure.
 Mr. Steele said that he foresaw a ''slight bump'' in the economy because of the enormous amount of money to be spent, but that he did not expect it to be lasting. He disputed Mr. Van Hollen's argument that Republicans would be in political trouble if the economy improved.
 ''I'm telling the party leadership around the country, don't believe the hype,'' he said. ''There will be a slight uptick, it will flat-line, and it will continue to go down.''
 At least some Republicans have calculated that if the Obama plan does not work, they will be able to say they warned against it. And if it does, they can hope that voters will have moved on to other issues before the next Congressional elections, in less than two years.
 ''The American public,'' said the House Republican whip, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, ''is not going to be waking up one morning four years from now and say: 'What a great economy! It all goes back to that vote that the Democrats passed on the stimulus bill.' ''
 In the meantime, Republicans argued, their nearly unanimous opposition to the bill has helped them reconnect with their identity as a party of limited government after years of what even Mr. Steele described as excessive spending under President George W. Bush.
 Ed Rogers, a Republican lobbyist and former White House official, said his party benefited in particular because the administration had never effectively tied the legislation to Mr. Obama's popularity, instead allowing it to be defined as a product of Congressional Democrats doling out wasteful spending.
 ''From the Republican point of view,'' Mr. Rogers said, ''there was never anything other than the House Democrat wish list tinkered with by the Senate. It was never the Obama Recovery Act.''
 Mr. Obama used the Denver appearance to invoke the themes of hope and opportunity that he effectively employed during the presidential campaign.
 ''Our American story is not, and has never been, about doing easy things,'' he said. ''It's about rising to the moment when the moment is hard.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joined by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., President Obama signed the stimulus bill Tuesday in a ceremony at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); LAYOFFS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



730 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Despite U.S. Offer, City Stands Firm on Food Stamps

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
A provision in President Obama's stimulus package, extending food stamp benefits for able-bodied adults, has revived a dispute in New York City between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and advocates for the poor.
 The provision overturns a 1996 rule limiting able-bodied adults who have no dependents to three months of food stamps in a three-year period. But the Bloomberg administration said on Tuesday that nothing had changed and that it was not obligated to extend benefits to anyone not enrolled in the Work Experience Program, a workfare program that provides temporary jobs, usually in city agencies. 
 While cities and states are allowed under the stimulus provision to require participation in such workfare programs, advocates for the poor decried the policy as unwise and counterproductive, particularly as the recession swells the ranks of the jobless who need help buying groceries. 
 ''They are wasting city funds to force people to do sometimes 'make-work' jobs in order to get fully funded federal benefits,'' said Joel Berg, the executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger.
 ''Saying that in order to get a measly portion of food you have to work extra hours just doesn't seem like a way to promote economic growth and promote self-sufficiency,'' he added. 
 City Councilman Bill de Blasio, a Brooklyn Democrat and chairman of the General Welfare Committee, said in a statement on Tuesday, ''Instead of putting hungry New Yorkers on a path out of poverty, the city is placing them in unpaid jobs before they can receive federal food aid they would be entitled to anyway.''
 But Robert Doar, commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, which oversees food stamps and workfare, said the city was ready to expand the Work Experience Program rather than allow people to collect food stamps without working or looking for work. 
 The program, which currently has about 12,000 participants, teaches job skills, like resume preparation, and places people in jobs -- or, sometimes, internships -- with government agencies or the private sector. 
 The mayor ''believes in sending a message that work is the best way to escape poverty,'' Mr. Doar said. ''It's a strong principled message that he wants to reaffirm.''
 In 2006, Mr. Bloomberg overruled a decision by two of his top aides to seek a federal waiver that would have allowed New Yorkers, along with others in areas with high unemployment, to receive food stamps beyond the time limit. 
 The provision in the federal stimulus package essentially nationalizes that waiver until October 2010, to encourage spending during the recession.
 Ellen Vollinger, the legal director for the Food Research and Action Center, an anti-hunger policy organization in Washington, said that each dollar in federal food stamp benefits generates nearly double that in economic activity.
 Individuals qualify for $176 in food stamps each month if their gross monthly income does not exceed $1,127, according to a city Web site. 
 It is not clear how many people would have benefited from the extension. According to the Human Resources Administration, there were 1.3 million food stamp recipients in New York City in December, a 19.4 percent increase over the year before. About 47,000 of them are able-bodied adults without dependents. In 2006, when there were about 43,000 able-bodied adults receiving food stamps, city officials estimated that if the three-month limit were waived, at least 13,900 more people would become eligible.
 At the time, Mr. Bloomberg said he had quashed the city's waiver application because he was ''a believer that people should have to work for a living.'' 
 ''You have to have a penalty if there's a requirement to work, and this penalty is one that's appropriate,'' he said. ''The city has a whole host of programs to make sure that nobody goes without food.'' 
 Mr. Berg, in his 2008 book, ''All You Can Eat,'' compared the mayor's position to the standpoint of Charles Trevelyan, the British officer in charge of famine relief during the Irish potato famine of the 1840s; he blamed the poor and their ''selfish, perverse and turbulent character'' for their own plight. 
 Mr. de Blasio called the mayor's approach an ''ideological hang-up'' that ''felt to some extent like a carryover from the Giuliani administration.''
 Ms. Vollinger of the Food Research and Action Center questioned why New York would not take full advantage of food stamps, which are paid for by the federal Agriculture Department, and instead expand the workfare program, which is partly funded by the city. (Mr. Doar could not say on Tuesday how much the city spent on it.) 
 ''If they were really interested in maximizing federal resources and minimizing the cost of handling this, then eliminating the time limit would be the cost-effective approach,'' Ms. Vollinger said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Able adults who do not work are limited to three months of benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (91%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); NATIONALIZATION (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



731 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Obama Team Has Billions to Spend, but Few Ready to Do It

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; John M. Broder and Adam Nagourney contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama blasted through all sorts of speed records pushing a $787 billion economic plan through Congress, arguing it was too urgent to wait. But even after signing it into law Tuesday, he faces another problem: virtually no one is in place at his cabinet departments to actually spend a lot of the money.
 The once efficient Obama transition has ground to a near standstill after tax problems bedeviled several of his nominees, leaving the top echelon of his government largely unassembled. Three cabinet jobs remain unfilled, only 2 of the 15 cabinet departments have deputy secretaries confirmed, and the vast majority of lower-level political jobs remain vacant. 
 The slowdown seems to stem both from the administration's sharpening its vetting process after losing several nominees and from Senate committees' taking more time to consider names that have been sent to Capitol Hill. As a result, the very departments charged with executing one of the largest spending projects in American history are operating largely with career stand-ins without the authority of political appointees.
 ''The senior executive guys who are filling these chairs are not going to switch these policies,'' said Terry Sullivan, an associate professor at the University of North Carolina and the executive director of the White House Transition Project, a scholarly effort that studies presidential staff. ''They're going to carry out the policies of the last guy standing, and the last guy standing was Bush.''
 White House officials are concerned about the problem and are working to make sure they are the ones setting direction. ''We're having meetings about that right now,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. 
 Mr. Emanuel and other aides said they were determined to make sure personnel gaps did not slow spending. Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, plans to send all agencies a 50-page memorandum on Wednesday detailing how the money should be used, another official said. 
 The memorandum will spell out daily, weekly and monthly reporting requirements on stimulus spending and require complete spending plans by May 1, the official said. It will also give specific requirements for contracts, grants and loans and will direct agencies to track stimulus spending separately.
 The administration has identified an official in each agency responsible for making sure the stimulus money gets out the door quickly and efficiently. 
 ''You're going to see the career bureaucracy spring into work as they've been doing for year after year,'' said an official who was not authorized to speak on the record. ''And you're going to see the cabinet secretaries playing a very direct role.''
 About $500 billion of the economic package is devoted to spending, and of that, most goes to individuals through increased unemployment, Social Security or health care benefits, or will be spent according to formulas set by law. Officials estimate that about $180 billion will be spent at the discretion of government officials.
 Until recently, Mr. Obama had put together what experts called the most effective transition in modern times. With both parties committed to speeding the process for the first transition since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Obama named cabinet nominees an average of nine days faster than his predecessors and senior White House officials 23 days faster, according to Mr. Sullivan's project.
 But Mr. Obama lost four nominees to tax and other issues and the pace of appointments slowed. Paul C. Light, a New York University professor who tracks the transition, said Mr. Obama had announced 56 of nearly 500 officials who need Senate confirmation, nearly twice as many as Presidents Bill Clinton or George W. Bush had by this point. But just 36 have been formally nominated and 26 confirmed, closer to the historical average.
 ''They were really fast in the first 100 meters,'' Mr. Light said, ''but this is a 10,000-meter process, and they've slowed down quite dramatically. I would have bet you the farm they'd break the recent record, but now they're on pace to become the slowest.''
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is the only political appointee confirmed in his department. The same is true for Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Education Secretary Arne Duncan, whose budgets have just been effectively doubled. 
 The Labor Department is still waiting for its secretary to be confirmed, and the Departments of Commerce and Health and Human Services have no one nominated to lead them. Mr. Obama's choices for United States trade representative and head of the Small Business Administration have not had confirmation hearings scheduled. 
 ''In an ideal world, on Day 1 everyone starts,'' said Lisa P. Jackson, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator and the only political appointee confirmed at her office. ''But I know that's not how the confirmation process works.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); HISTORY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



732 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Debt Gains On Hungary's

 BODY:
Based on the costs of fiscal stimulus and the bank bailout, the federal government's ratio of debt to gross domestic product is heading much higher. By 2011, it may equal Hungary's current ratio -- which skyrocketed due to profligate spending and remnants of centrally planned waste.
While other factors are important, that suggests the credit quality of currently top-rated Treasury debt may trend down more toward the quality of Hungary's government debt, which is nearer the bottom of the investment grade pecking order. That's not a complete disaster, but it means Treasuries won't really be a safe investment, either. 
Assuming deficit projections by the Congressional Budget Office for the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years are right, and adding the cost of the stimulus plan, the bank rescue plan and borrowing costs, public debt would rise from 41 percent of G.D.P. in September 2008 to about 70 percent of G.D.P. three years later. That is roughly in line with Hungary's December 2008 ratio.
After 2011, America's debt-to-G.D.P. ratio is expected to decline again. The budget office projects deficits of less than 2 percent of G.D.P. after 2012, and the capital injected into the banking system under the government's bailout plans should start to produce some returns for taxpayers around that time.
There are considerable downside risks. The budget office's projections are based on optimistic assumptions: that growth averages 4 percent annually from 2011 through 2014, that the Bush tax cuts and alternative minimum tax relief all expire in December 2010, and that discretionary spending increases only in line with inflation after 2010.
The falling debt projection also assumes that none of the costs under the stimulus plan migrate into annual spending after 2010.
Should the recession deepen, or persist beyond 2010, higher budget deficits could become entrenched. Finally, the projection assumes interest rates in the United States remain low. With Treasury bond maturities now averaging only 48 months, higher interest rates would rapidly feed into higher borrowing costs and budget deficits.
''No European government has done anything as boneheaded as we have,'' Ferenc Gyurcsany, Hungary's prime minister, said of his country's fiscal policy in May 2006. By 2012, United States policy makers may be echoing his words.
China's Bargain?
China's $25 billion oil purchase agreement with Russia trades cash for bargain-priced oil over 20 years. That solves a chunk of China's long-term supply problem. Russia may be politically unreliable, but the advantages of the deal make it well worth the risk.
In return for $25 billion in loans, China will get a total of about 2.2 billion barrels of oil over 20 years. Including interest at 5 percent, that equates to a price of $17.40 a barrel over the period, a bargain when the longest New York Mercantile Exchange futures contract, for December 2017, sells at $73.22 a barrel.
The contract covers about 8 percent of China's current oil imports, which are expected to increase sharply in coming years. The Chinese authorities regard long-term oil supplies as a key matter of national security, and are not prepared to rely more than modestly on the international spot market.
Hence in recent years, Chinese oil companies have invested in a number of African countries to line up supplies, and have had lengthy discussions with oil-rich but unreliable Venezuela. Given its energy concerns, a 20-year contact with even the erratically governed Russia could be regarded as only moderately risky.
Russian oil companies may be less likely to default on a deal with China, which takes a strong stance in most international matters, than they would be on an equivalent obligation to the more passive European Union, for example. Russia gets the capital needed to upgrade its oil industry and establishes a long-term relationship with a large and growing customer.
Even the low equivalent price of this contract probably represents a profit considering Russia's low extraction costs. It also provides guaranteed demand in case of an oil glut.
This looks like a good deal for both sides, but Russia's cash flow needs and the fall in oil prices seem to have given Chinese negotiators the advantage.
MARTIN HUTCHINSON
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany called Hungary's fiscal policy ''boneheaded.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LASZLO BALOGH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNGARY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



733 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1857 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
CHINESE OFFICIALS, FEARING PROTESTS,
Increase Security Across Tibet
Fearing new protests, the Chinese government has increased its security presence across Tibet because a grass-roots movement plans to boycott festivities during the coming Tibetan New Year. The movement intends to use the holiday as a time of mourning for those who were arrested, tortured or killed in the crackdown last March. Page A5
PAKISTANI JOURNALIST KILLED
A Pakistani television journalist was shot and killed in the Swat valley, during celebrations of a nascent peace deal between the government and a hard-line Islamic cleric. Page A5 
LEARNING FROM THE PAST IN IRAQ
An analysis of the actions of Maj. Gen. Mark P. Hertling and the coalition forces under his command in northern Iraq is providing a much-needed lesson to the Obama administration on how to do more with less. Page A5
Israel Hinges Gaza's Unsealing
On Soldier's Release A6
BRITISH COURT RULES AGAINST CLERIC
Britain's government describes the cleric, Abu Qatada, as a significant international terrorist, and the country's highest court ruled he should be deported to Jordan. Page A8
FREED, AND EAGER TO GET TO WORK
Ayman Nour, one of Egypt's most prominent political dissidents, has been released from prison for ''medical reasons,'' Egypt's attorney general said. He had been held for more than three years, despite international pressure for his release, on charges of forging signatures on a petition. Mr. Nour was not cowed by his imprisonment, and vowed in a statement to rebuild his party and push for democratic reform. Page A8
Italian Opposition Leader
Says He Failed A10
ZIMBABWE COURT TO TRY POLITICIAN
In Zimbabwe, a magistrate ruled that Roy Bennett, the third-highest ranking opposition leader, should be tried on terrorism charges and imprisoned for at least the next three weeks. Mr. Bennett was to have been sworn in as deputy agricultural minister. Page A10
Faradje Journal
Little but Resolve to Defend Home
What good is a machete when faced with bullets and experienced killers from one of the most brutal rebel groups? Little enough, but as the people of Faradje, Congo, look at it, this is their land. What choice do they have but to protect it? Page A11
National
EXAMINATION OF FORENSIC LABS
Finds Delays and Other Troubles
Crime laboratories are grossly underfinanced, understaffed and compromised by delays in analyzing evidence, according to a study of forensics by the National Academy of Sciences. The Academy recommended that a new federal agency serve law enforcement and defense lawyers. PAGE A12
HARD TIMES STRAIN BLACK COLLEGES
Many colleges and universities are facing shrunken endowments, decreased giving and government cutbacks. But Morris Brown College, Clark Atlanta University, Spelman College and other historically black institutions are finding it even more difficult, with smaller endowments and more disadvantaged students. PAGE A12
Crackdown for Bay Area Race A12
Obama Tours Newly Blue States A15
MAMMOTH'S SKELETON UNEARTHED
Excavations for a parking garage near the La Brea tar pits in Los Angeles have yielded the site's first nearly intact mammoth skeleton as well as a trove of other bones that could double the size of its already large collection of fossils from the last ice age. PAGE A16
SHARP RISE IN LATINO INCARCERATION
Latinos make up roughly 13 percent of the adult population in the United States, but they represent the largest ethnic population in the federal prison system, according to a study released by the Pew Research Center. Jailed mainly for immigration crimes, Latinos account for nearly 40 percent of prisoners. PAGE A16
BURRIS APPEALS TO BASE FOR SUPPORT
Facing increasingly harsh criticism, Senator Roland W. Burris urged those in Chicago's political and business base not to turn their backs on him, as investigations unfold into how he came to be appointed senator in Illinois. PAGE A16
COURT BLOCKS FREEING OF DETAINEES
The federal appeals court in Washington unanimously overturned a judge's order that would have freed 17 Guantanamo detainees in the United States, adding a new complication to the Obama administration's efforts to close the prison in Cuba. PAGE A18
6 IN TERRORISM PLOT ARE RETRIED
In the government's third attempt to convict six Miami men of planning to blow up the Sears Tower in Chicago as part of an Islamic jihad, federal prosecutors in opening arguments portrayed the group and its ringleader, Narseal Batiste, 34, as a serious threat. PAGE A18
New York
COMPUTER ANIMATION SUGGESTS
Crew of Flight 3407 Overreacted
Using data from ''black boxes,'' the last moments of a flight that crashed near Buffalo last week have been recreated. A computer animation using the data shows that the crew may have overreacted to the plane's automatic systems that control flight, according to a person familiar with the simulation. Page A20
BUILDING OWNERS FOUND GUILTY
The owner and former owner of an apartment building in the Bronx where two firefighters were forced to jump to their deaths in 2005 were found guilty of criminally negligent homicide. Page A20
AID FOR WALL ST.'S UNEMPLOYED
New York City officials are planning to spend $45 million to help retrain the glut of unemployed former Wall Street employees, as well as provide seed capital and office space for any new businesses they might create. Page A21
Business
GENERAL MOTORS SAYS THIS LOAN
Will Be the Last One It Needs
General Motors announced that its latest request for federal aid -- an additional $12 billion, bringing the total to $30 billion -- will be its last, saying it is enough to bolster the ailing automotive company through its biggest reorganization. Page B1
FACEBOOK RETREATS ON NEW POLICY
Facebook picked up a couple of new dents in its visage when changes to its contracts with users appeared to give the site perpetual ownership over user-uploaded content, including messages to other members. The site changed course, saying the gaffe was a result of a clumsy attempt to simplify the contract. Page B1
CRITICS OF OUTSOURCED TRIALS
Add clinical drug trials to America's love of outsourcing to other countries. Drug companies have begun having the human studies that determine the efficacy and safety of medicine in developing nations. The move has raised questions about ethics, and that questioning has in turn drawn critics. Page B7
Circuits
As Long as It Works
When an everyday item is not available, people's creativity will take hold to help provide what they need. Here are some low-tech solutions to several high-tech problems. Page B5
Obituaries
BRAD VAN PELT, 57
He was arguably the best player on the field whenever the beleaguered team that was the 1970's Giants took the field. Starting his career in college as a strong safety, he converted to linebacker when he turned pro. His lethal skill in pass coverage earned him 20 interceptions in his career. Page A18
Sports
NO MATTER WHERE HE LANDS,
Beckham's Presence Was a Plus
The Galaxy and A.C. Milan are negotiating over who gets to keep David Beckham, despite a deadline set by Major League Soccer. While his leaving could hurt the M.L.S., his presence has also done it a lot of good. Page B10
A WIDE-OPEN SEASON FOR DODGERS
With hopeful anticipation, the Dodgers are keeping a locker open for Manny Ramirez. He took the Dodgers into the playoffs last season, but is currently a free-agent. Beyond the status of Mr. Ramirez, the franchise is starting a new season at an important crossroads. Page B10
Style
Fashion Diary
Despite Some Signs of Ailing,
The Fashion World Soldiers On
Adding to the moment-to-moment twittering about Marc Jacobs's hair and eating habits, Bloomingdale's bolstering its fourth-quarter earnings with a Barbie doll, and an artificial urgency to the goings-on of fashion week, Guy Trebay writes, the industry is slouching toward something. It's not extinction, but it's not the picture of health, either. Page E1
ONE OF FASHION'S SUPPORTING PILLARS
At 74, Georgio Armani is one of the world's most prominent fashion designers, giving all of himself to that end, writes Eric Wilson. His new retail space, nearly of department store size, was a significant expense. But as Mr. Armani said, now is the time to do that and show an entrepreneur's true colors in a climate of crisis. Page E1
Skin Deep
A Sculptor, Hairbrush in Hand
Out of the spotlight, Odile Gilbert is a fixture in the Paris fashion world. But she prefers to disappear into her follicle based creations. With some of these towering masterpieces it might be possible. Page E3
Arts
Abroad
In France, Commercials Aim At the Heart More Than the Wallet
''Forty Years of Ads on TV,'' at the Musee des Arts Decoratifs in Paris, makes clear that French commercials speak to French culture no less than literature or music. Long on sensuality, style and poetry, they are lean on facts and allergic to commerce, Michael Kimmelman writes. Hard-sell tactics, standard in America (Call Now!), are practically forbidden in France. PAGE C1
Yves Saint Laurent's Art at Auction C1
GRAMMY'S GOLDEN TOUCH TARNISHED
The Grammys bump -- when artists see a sharp increase in their album sales the week after winning -- has become the Grammys tiny protuberance. In 2003, Norah Jones's album sold 621,000 copies after she won five Grammys. By contrast, Robert Plant and Alison Krauss's ''Raising Sand,'' which took five awards at the Feb. 8 ceremony, sold 77,000. The ceremony's steadily decreasing ratings, and the overall erosion of album sales are two reasons for the decline. PAGE C3
Music Reviews
Medeski Martin & Wood
The audience was seated at 92Y TriBeCa for two acoustic sets by Medeski Martin & Wood. The evening was for listening, however strong the urge to move, Nate Chinen writes. PAGE C3
JAMES DEPREIST AND THE JUILLIARD
At Avery Fisher Hall, James DePreist and the Juilliard Orchestra played a premiere by Bruce MacCombie, a Liszt piano concerto and Shostakovich's Fifth Symphony. Mostly they did the music justice; only the Shostakovich had cracks in its veneer. PAGE C3
DAILEY & VINCENT
The bluegrass duo's performance at Joe's Pub was sharp and joyful. PAGE C5
Books of The Times 'The Help' by Kathryn Stockett C6
Editorial
MR. OBAMA'S FORECLOSURE PLAN
The anti-foreclosure plan announced by President Obama on Wednesday is a good start, but we fear it still may not be enough. PAGE A22
INVESTIGATING JUDGE KELLER
A Texas appellate judge made headlines in 2007 when she reportedly prevented a death row inmate from filing an emergency appeal. A legislative inquiry is long overdue. PAGE A22
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS
Lately I am beginning to wonder if, in our current troubled times, being in a Senate -- any Senate -- actually is hell.
PAGE A23
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The Darfur conflict has now lasted longer than World War II, and the international community has remained monumentally feckless. Can George Clooney get the world to take action?
PAGE A23
LEARNING NOT TO LOVE THE BOMB
The Obama administration has signaled an interest in renewing talks to reduce nuclear arms. In an Op-Ed article, Philip Taubman, a former Times bureau chief in Moscow and Washington, argues that Mr. Obama will need to break free from cold-war thinking and face up to modern threats.
PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FORENSICS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); EVIDENCE (88%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (87%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); TEST LABORATORIES (74%); PETITIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (70%); RELIGION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); DEPORTATION (66%); APPEALS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) TIBET (95%); CHINA (94%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



734 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Modifying Mortgages Can Be a Tricky Business

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JOHN LELAND; Vikas Bajaj reported from Miami Gardens, and John Leland from New York.

 BODY:
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. -- When her brother could no longer help support her, Luzetta Reeves asked her small mortgage company to cut her monthly payments. It did -- by 11 percent -- making it possible for her to afford her house here on her modest fixed income.
In Miami, Jeffrey Mitchell saw his family income drop just as real estate taxes and insurance premiums increased, making his monthly mortgage payments crushing. He got a lower interest rate, too. But with the added fees and penalties, his monthly payment remained the same. He is now back in foreclosure. 
As the Obama administration steps up efforts to help troubled homeowners modify their mortgages, it might consider the experiences of these two South Florida borrowers and their mortgage companies, one small, one large.
National statistics on mortgage modifications suggest that what happened to Ms. Reeves, a disabled 54-year-old, and Mr. Mitchell, a 42-year-old union representative, is fairly typical.
The nation's 14 largest banks reported that more than half of the loans they modified last year were delinquent again after just six months, according to the federal bank regulator, the comptroller of the currency. But several small mortgage companies like the one that helped Ms. Reeves, which have been pursuing modifications longer, say that less than 25 percent of their modified loans became delinquent again.
''It's becoming more and more clear to us that if you do real modifications the default rate is significantly lower,'' said Tom Miller, the attorney general of Iowa, who has led a group of state officials pushing the industry to modify more loans. ''They shouldn't be called modifications if people pay more or approximately the same.''
Two years into the foreclosure crisis, many borrowers say they still have trouble reaching anyone at their bank or mortgage company to discuss loan modifications.
Banks and investors absorb huge losses in foreclosures, but some mortgage companies may view foreclosure as more profitable and expedient than modifications because they can levy extra fees and they do not have to wait to see if a homeowner will continue to make payments.
Bankers counter that they pursue options that minimize losses, but add that it is often hard to reach delinquent borrowers because many hide from their creditors.
While both arguments appear to have merit, reports by analysts at Credit Suisse and a law professor, Alan M. White, show that when mortgages are renegotiated, borrowers often face higher monthly payments or balloon payments at the end of the term.
Rod Dubitsky, a mortgage analyst at Credit Suisse, found that modifications that result in lower payments tended to re-default at half the rate as plans under which payments were higher or remained roughly the same.
The performance of individual companies varies greatly. Some, like Wells Fargo, one of the nation's largest servicers of home loans, have modified few loans as a percentage of their delinquent mortgages, said Mr. White, an assistant professor of law at Valparaiso University.
Other companies like Ocwen Financial and Litton Loan Servicing, a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, have modified a big portion of their delinquent loans, according to Credit Suisse. (The studies cover only loans packaged into securities, not those held on the books of banks.)
In the case of Ms. Reeves, Ocwen cut the interest rate to 5.6 percent, from 8.9 percent, lowering her payments by $125, to $1,027. Officials at the company said the reduction would cost less than seizing and selling Ms. Reeves's modest two-bedroom house near Dolphin Stadium.
''Ocwen was very patient with me, and they really worked with me,'' said Ms. Reeves, who has back problems and breast cancer.
The company said its modifications were not acts of charity but were based on calculations of whether changing loan terms was in the best interests of investors. Using home price data, estimates of legal costs and the time it takes to foreclose, the company determines how much it will recover in foreclosure. It compares that with estimates of what borrowers can afford based on income, family size and expenses.
''Our biggest hurdle is reaching out and talking to people,'' said Margery A. Rotundo, Ocwen's senior vice president for residential loss mitigation. ''If a borrower has a desire and the ability to stay in the home, we can help them.''
Ms. Rotundo said the company's decades-long experience with borrowers with blemished credit histories informed its approach.
Ocwen, which is based in West Palm Beach, Fla., modified half of the delinquent loans it resolved last year. It foreclosed on a third, and most of the rest were sold before foreclosure for less than what was owed on them.
But many more people appear to have the experience of Mr. Mitchell, the other Florida borrower.
Mr. Mitchell bought his Miami home four years ago for $282,000. In 2007, his wife had to work less to care for a sick child, and the family was hit with higher tax bills and insurance premiums, raising monthly payments to $2,700 from $2,200.
When Mr. Mitchell told Wells Fargo he could not keep up, he said, ''It fell on deaf ears for a while.''
Wells Fargo ultimately cut Mr. Mitchell's interest rate to 6.1 percent, from 6.5 percent. But it added fees, back payments and penalties to his principal, raising it above $300,000. His payments were virtually unchanged, and he was asked to make a $5,000 payment to get out of foreclosure. He fell behind again right away. His house, he estimates, is worth only $199,000.
''The arrangements they come up with are not really in your best interest,'' he said. ''You feel like you're trapped.''
Wells Fargo declined to comment for this article.
Analysts say it is hard to know exactly why different mortgage companies handle delinquent loans so differently.
Smaller companies like Ocwen that are under more financial pressure and have more experience in dealing with higher-cost loans have been most aggressive in lowering payments, said Mr. Dubitsky, the Credit Suisse analyst. Big banks like Wells Fargo, which would need to be retooled to emphasize modifications over foreclosures, appear to favor modifications that do not lower payments or debts very much.
A spokesman for the comptroller, Bryan Hubbard, said that many banks began focusing on lowering monthly payments last year and that it would be premature to say they had not done enough to help borrowers.
Lowering payments is becoming more important as the economy weakens, Mr. Dubitsky said, because more borrowers are likely to lose jobs or encounter expenses they cannot afford.
''If the borrower is spending every last dollar on their debt,'' he said, ''that leaves them vulnerable to unexpected expenses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Luzetta Reeves, with her grandson Donnie Howard, now makes a lower monthly payment on her house in Miami Gardens, Fla.(pg.A1)
 Luzetta Reeves was able to remain in her home by modifying her mortgage, which cut her interest rate to 5.6 percent from 8.9. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) CHART: NOT ALL THE SAME: Lenders have been modifying delinquent home loans, but the borrowers making the same or higher monthly payments fall behind again faster than those who pay less after their principal has been reduced. (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); STATISTICS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



735 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 780 words

PERSON: J. Max Bond Jr. 

HEADLINE: J. Max Bond Jr., Architect, Dies at 73

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
J. Max Bond Jr., long the most influential African-American architect in New York and one of a few black architects of national prominence, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said Steven M. Davis, a partner of Mr. Bond's in the firm Davis Brody Bond Aedas.
At his death, Mr. Bond was the partner in charge of the museum portion of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum at the World Trade Center. Davis Brody Bond is also the associate architect for the memorial. 
But Mr. Bond's reputation did not rest solely -- or even principally -- on design. He was known as an educator, at City College and Columbia University; an exemplar to younger minority architects; and a prickly voice of conscience within his profession on issues of racial and economic justice. ''Architecture inevitably involves all the larger issues of society,'' he said in a 2003 interview.
Gordon J. Davis, the founding chairman of Jazz at Lincoln Center, said Mr. Bond had a ''steel spine and rock-hard determination -- qualities always masked by a handsome gentlemanly exterior, a gracious and extraordinarily collegial persona, and so many of the characteristics that are hallmarks of a great and wonderful teacher and mentor.''
From boyhood curiosity about a staircase in a Tuskegee Institute dormitory, through a trip to Tunisia that opened his eyes to North African construction, Mr. Bond developed a love of architecture. But at Harvard, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1955 and a master's degree in 1958, he was counseled by a faculty member to forego his architectural aspirations because of his race. He persevered, despite the barriers in what was an almost all-white profession.
His early career took him to France, where he worked with Andre Wogenscky; to New York, where he was at Gruzen & Partners and Pedersen & Tilney; and to Ghana, where he worked for the government from 1964 to 1967. There, in the northern part of the country, he designed the Bolgatanga Regional Library, four buildings under the broad shade of a tabletop-like roof intended, along with natural ventilation, to eliminate the need for air-conditioning.
Mr. Bond led the Architects Renewal Committee of Harlem before founding the firm Bond Ryder & Associates in 1970, with Donald P. Ryder. Foremost among its projects were the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta, which includes Dr. King's tomb; the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem; and the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute in Alabama.
When Mr. Ryder retired in 1990 the firm merged with Davis, Brody & Associates.
There, Mr. Bond was partner in charge of the Audubon Biomedical Science and Technology Park for Columbia University in Upper Manhattan, which included the redevelopment of the Audubon Ballroom, where Malcolm X was assassinated. In 1992, Herbert Muschamp, then the architecture critic of The New York Times, said the design ''gives new meaning to the term civil engineering: it seeks to balance by formal means the competing stakes in the land the building will occupy.''
That is not to say Mr. Bond's work was universally admired. In 2001 his modernist addition to the Harvard Club of New York, at 27 West 44th Street, was harshly criticized by some club members as unsympathetic and inappropriate.
Mr. Bond's family included the prominent 20th-century educator Horace Mann Bond and the civil-rights leader Julian Bond. His father, J. Max Bond Sr., was president of the University of Liberia in the early 1950s. His mother, Ruth C. Bond, also an educator, was renowned for quilts she designed in the mid-1930s.
Mr. Bond's wife, Jean Carey Bond, survives him, as do their children, Ruth M. Bond of San Francisco and Carey Julian Bond of Manhattan; three grandchildren; a sister, Jane Clement Bond of Manhattan; and a brother, George Clement Bond of Teaneck, N.J.
Mr. Bond served on the New York City Planning Commission from 1980 to 1986. He was chairman of the architecture division at the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture and Planning from 1980 to 1984 and dean of the School of Architecture and Environmental Studies at City College from 1985 to 1992.
Despite these insider's credentials, Mr. Bond never lost an outsider's perspective, applying it critically in 2003 to early plans that called for public spaces high up in the new skyscrapers at the World Trade Center site.
''It's always been difficult for young blacks, for young Hispanics, for anyone who looks aberrant to get access to the upper realms of Wall Street towers,'' Mr. Bond said. ''For a city of immigrants, the public realm is more than ever now the street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Projects designed by J. Max Bond Jr. include, top, the Bolgatanga Regional Library in Ghana, and above, the Audubon Biomedical Science and Technology Park in Upper Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVIS BRODY BOND
ROY J. WRIGHT PHOTOGRAPHY)
 Mr. Bond was an educator as well as an influential architect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 2001) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); CANCER (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); LIBRARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (56%)

CATEGORY: Architecture

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



736 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: String of Problems And S.E.C. Fines Did Not Head Off Huge Fraud Case

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and CHARLIE SAVAGE; David Kocieniewski contributed reporting from Trenton.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Years before the Stanford Group was accused in a worldwide fraud, American financial regulators found significant securities violations at the company that some experts say were telltale signs of deeper problems. But each time the regulators ultimately let the company off with relatively small fines, records show.
On Tuesday, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Stanford might have engaged in an $8 billion fraud involving high-yielding certificates of deposit held in the company's bank in Antigua. It was run by Robert Allen Stanford, a businessman who enjoyed political connections in Antigua and in Washington, where his company lobbied extensively. 
Experts said that the earlier violations amounted to a series of red flags of deeper problems. Officials at the S.E.C. said Wednesday that they were reviewing the regulatory history of Stanford, and whether the agency -- often accused of lax enforcement -- should have been more vigilant in this case.
The commission has faced a wave of criticism for failing to detect the huge Ponzi scheme that Bernard L. Madoff is said to have run.
In 2007, the S.E.C. found that the Stanford Group did not have adequate capital to meet the requirements of being a broker-dealer. The company paid $20,000 to settle those charges. Later that same year the firm was censured and paid an additional $10,000 to resolve accusations that it had provided ''misleading, unfair and unbalanced information'' about its certificates of deposit, according to records kept by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the agency known as Finra that polices Wall Street for the S.E.C.
Late last year, Stanford paid $30,000 to resolve a third set of accusations by Finra that the company had failed in its research reports to adequately disclose a variety of research methods and the way it was valuing certain securities.
A summary of violations posted on Finra's Web site said that two years ago the firm distributed sales literature that did not disclose the affiliations between the company and a related bank, and that the company ''failed to present fair and balanced treatment of the risks and potential benefits of'' instruments it was marketing as C.D.'s.
Greg LaRoche of LaRoche Research in Providence, R.I., said that of the 5,000 broker-dealers in the United States that he had examined, fewer than 50 slipped below the net capital requirements.
''A net capital violation is a major, major, major red flag,'' he said. ''Generally when a firm has a net capital violation, it's already on the brink of bankruptcy,'' he said. ''When you look at all of these things together, this is really serious. Either the firm is in big financial trouble, or it's hugely incompetent. Neither one is good.''
As the story of the company's regulatory history emerges, a portrait of the Stanford Group's courtship of Washington lawmakers is also coming into focus.
For years, Mr. Stanford and entities associated with him have been raining money on Congress, through campaign donations, trips and conferences in resort destinations. There is no evidence that this influenced the way regulators handled the company.
But since 2000, Mr. Stanford and his firm, along with its employees and its political action committee, have given $2.4 million in campaign contributions, according to the Center for Responsive Politics -- about two-thirds to Democrats. Top recipients, the center said, included Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, $45,900; and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, $28,150.
Campaign finance records also show that in 2008 Mr. Stanford gave at least $28,000 to committees controlled by Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York. Mr. Rangel has been an outspoken champion of legislation benefiting the economic interests of Caribbean countries and residents.
Mr. Stanford and entities associated with him have also courted lawmakers with trips. For example, the Stanford Group took Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, and his wife on a three-day trip to Antigua and Barbuda for a ''financial services industry fact-finding mission'' shortly after the 2004 election, according to data compiled by LegiStorm, which tracks Congressional ethics disclosures.
In a statement, Mr. Cornyn said: ''No one is above the law, and prosecutors should follow the facts, wherever they may lead.''
Mr. Stanford is also associated with the Inter-American Economic Council, a nonprofit that brings political and corporate leaders together to discuss Caribbean and Latin American business issues. Donors to the council are not public, but when it gave him a leadership award three years ago, it said he had ''strongly supported'' its work.
The council spent more than $300,000 from 2003 to 2007 providing about 85 trips to lawmakers and their staff members -- mostly to resort locations like Jamaica and the Virgin Islands, LegiStorm's data shows. Democrats took 58 trips and Republicans 27.
One lawmaker who both went and sent staff members on several trips was Representative Donald M. Payne, Democrat of New Jersey. He is the co-chairman of the Caribbean caucus.
Kerry McKenney, Mr. Payne's chief of staff, said the events focused on issues like work force development, homeland security, health care and trade agreements, but not offshore banking.
''He never had any specific legislative requests,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stanford International Bank's Caracas headquarters represented confidence in Venezuela. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID FERNANDEZ/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PONZI SCHEMES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SALES & SELLING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (79%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



737 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Markets Finish Little Changed Despite Bleak Reports on Housing

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The headlines generated by President Obama's speech on housing and separate comments from the Federal Reserve about the deteriorating economy did little to move stock markets on Wednesday.
Even as Mr. Obama outlined a $75 billion plan to give as many as nine million families assistance in refinancing their mortgages or avoiding foreclosure, a government report provided more gloomy news for the housing sector.
New-home construction fell to its lowest level on record in January as builders virtually closed up shop amid a plunge in demand, tightened credit markets and a flood of foreclosure properties. 
The Commerce Department reported on Wednesday that privately owned housing starts in January fell 16.8 percent from December, to an annual rate of 466,000. That was the slowest pace since at least 1959.
The numbers show a housing market that is still declining after more than two years of slumping prices and lower demand.
Home values, which rose steadily for more than a decade, have fallen by an average of about 25 percent from their peaks, and economists expect that prices will continue to slide as more people lose their jobs and the economy slips deeper into recession.
''Housing and the U.S. economy are still in a free fall,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. ''It's clear that we haven't done anything to stabilize housing. We haven't stabilized the rise in foreclosures. And until we do that, I think we're not going to see a bottom.''
Investors seemed to take the housing report in stride.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.03 points, to 7,555.63, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.75 point, or 0.1 percent, to 788.42. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.69 points, to 1,467.97.
Oil prices settled at $34.62 a barrel, down 31 cents.
A day earlier, markets fell sharply on worries about the stability of banking systems in Eastern Europe and across the world, with the Dow sliding within reach of its lowest levels since the start of the credit crisis.
Banking stocks continued to lose ground Wednesday, with shares of Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Bank of America each falling more than 4.5 percent. Analysts say that investors are likely to remain wary of jumping back into stock markets until they see some sign of a turnaround in the battered financial system.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 30/32, to 99 30/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 2.76 percent, from 2.65 percent.
In January, the pace of housing starts was 56.2 percent below its levels in January 2008, a sign of how much builders have scaled back construction. Single-family housing starts fell 12 percent from December, to an annual pace of 347,000.
Building permits, which offer a glimpse of future construction, were also lower in January, falling 4.8 percent, to a seasonally adjusted rate of 521,000.
In normal times, builders need to construct 1.25 million to 2 million new housing units every year to keep pace with immigration, the natural growth of the country's population and the demand for newer homes, said James Glassman, senior United States economist at JPMorgan Chase.
If there is one bright spot to dwindling new-home construction, it is that supplies will eventually fall in line with demand. At the end of December, the inventory of unsold homes fell to a 9.3-month supply from an 11.2-month supply a month earlier, according to the National Association of Realtors.
''Eventually that's how you get your inventory in line,'' Mr. Glassman said. ''The problem with the builders is that they're competing with property that's coming to the market from foreclosures. There's this tug of war going on between the resale market and the builders.''
Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (SOURCES: ASSOCIATED PRESS
BLOOMBERG)
 HOUSING CONSTRUCTION: New provate housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual price. (SOURCE: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (57%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



738 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: $275 BILLION PLAN SEEKS TO ADDRESS CRISIS IN HOUSING

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Mesa, Ariz., and Edmund L. Andrews from Washington.

 BODY:
MESA, Ariz. -- President Obama announced a plan on Wednesday to help as many as nine million American homeowners refinance their mortgages or avert foreclosure, saying that it would shore up housing prices, stabilize neighborhoods and slow a downward spiral that was ''unraveling homeownership, the middle class and the American Dream itself.''
The plan, which was more ambitious and expensive than many housing analysts had expected, drew praise from consumer advocates as well as the financial industry. 
It could ultimately cost taxpayers as much as $275 billion -- $75 billion in direct spending to keep people in their homes and the rest in additional financial backing for the government-controlled mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
But analysts and administration officials alike cautioned that it would not come close to halting the tidal wave of foreclosures. Nor would it provide much help to millions of homeowners who are ''under water,'' or holding mortgages that are bigger that the market value of their houses.
''This plan will not save every home, but it will give millions of families resigned to financial ruin a chance to rebuild,'' Mr. Obama told a crowd here, in one of the communities hardest hit by the housing crisis. ''It will prevent the worst consequences of this crisis from wreaking even greater havoc on the economy. And by bringing down the foreclosure rate, it will help to shore up housing prices for everyone.''
Almost one in 10 home mortgages is either delinquent or in foreclosure, and analysts estimate that at as many as six million families could lose their homes over the next three years in the absence of government action.
The plan has three components. The first would help homeowners who are still current on their payments, but who are paying high interest rates and cannot refinance because they do not have enough equity in their homes, a problem afflicting growing numbers of people as housing values tumble.
A second component would assist about four million people who are at risk of losing their homes. It would provide incentives to lenders who alter the terms of loans to make them affordable for the troubled borrowers. A third component would try to increase the credit available for mortgages in general by giving $200 billion of additional financial backing to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Beyond luring lenders with government money, the plan also calls on Congress to give bankruptcy judges the power to change the terms of mortgages and reduce the monthly payments.
The banking industry has vehemently fought that proposal for more than a year, saying it would make investors unwilling to finance future mortgage lending. But Democrats in Congress strongly support the idea and banking executives are putting up less resistance than before.
Republican lawmakers reacted cautiously to Mr. Obama's plan. Representative John Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, called it ''an important step,'' but raised questions.
''Does your plan compensate banks for the bad mortgages they should never have made in the first place?'' Mr. Boehner asked. ''Will individuals who misrepresented their income or assets on their original mortgage application be eligible to get taxpayer-funded assistance?''
Mr. Obama's announcement came a day after he signed his $787 billion economic stimulus package, and administration officials said that the initiatives would work in tandem to stabilize the economy.
The plan will take effect March 4, when the administration publishes detailed rules explaining it.
Except for the provision that empowers bankruptcy judges, almost all the other elements can be enacted by Mr. Obama without further action by Congress.
To help the estimated four million homeowners in danger of foreclosure, Mr. Obama will create a $75 billion program to subsidize loan modifications that would reduce a family's monthly payment to as little as 31 percent of its gross monthly income.
As envisioned, a mortgage lender would have to first make enough concessions to reduce a borrower's payments to 38 percent of monthly income. To encourage lenders, the government would offer incentives, like a $1,000 upfront payment for every loan modified and more payments if the borrower stays current.
If the lender gets the monthly payments down to 38 percent of the borrower's monthly income, the government would then match, dollar for dollar, additional reductions to bring the payment as low as 31 percent of monthly income.
The changes could be accomplished in several ways, from stretching out the repayment period of a loan to reducing the interest rate or reducing the outstanding principal.
But analysts noted that lenders, or the mortgage-servicing companies that administered the loan, would still have the last word on whether to make concessions. If a lender decides that the cost of the concessions is higher than the cost of foreclosing, even with the government subsidies, then a borrower would probably still lose the property.
A potentially big limitation on the rescue portion of Mr. Obama's plan involves second mortgages. To avoid the need for a down payment, or to minimize the down payment, millions of people bought homes with piggy-back mortgages that went alongside the primary mortgages.
Administration officials said on Wednesday that their plan to help homeowners facing foreclosure did not deal with second mortgages. Because those second mortgages were often made by a different lender than the first mortgages, that could greatly complicate negotiations over a loan modification.
To help homeowners who can still keep up with their payments, but who may resent the idea of rescuing others, Mr. Obama's plan would make it easier to refinance at today's very low interest rates.
The plan would apply to people with fairly traditional loans that are owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- about 30 million homeowners. The new loans would not be subsidized, but borrowers would not need to have a 20 percent equity stake in the house.
Normally, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac require that such borrowers pay private mortgage insurance, which can add hundreds of dollars to a monthly payment. Administration officials estimated that this portion of the plan could help 4 million to 5 million borrowers.
The big limitation of the refinancing portion of the plan is that it would not help most borrowers who are current, but under water. It would only be available for mortgages that are not more than 5 percent above the current market value of the house. Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, estimated that the plan would help less than a million of the 14 million homeowners who are under water.
A third, more vague component of the plan is aimed at propping up the mortgage market as a whole by having Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac step up their purchases of mortgages and mortgage-backed securities.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE NEW HOUSING PLAN: President Obama's housing plan is expected to help as many as seven million to nine million homeowners by making it easier for them to either refinance their mortgages or renegotiate payments. (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (77%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); JUDGES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



739 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: For Beckham And M.L.S., Moving On Is Hard to Do

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
Despite a deadline set last week by Major League Soccer, the Los Angeles Galaxy appears willing to continue negotiating with A.C. Milan regarding Milan's bid to keep David Beckham.
''I think nothing is ever set in stone,'' Bruce Arena, the Galaxy's coach and general manager, said in a telephone interview Tuesday. ''There's wiggle room.''
Don Garber, the M.L.S. commissioner, said Wednesday from Spain that he still expected Beckham to return to the Galaxy on March 9 after his loan arrangement ends. The league will reconsider, he said, only if A.C. Milan provides ''unique circumstances.''
''I'm not sure what that could be, whether it is something specific for the league or something extraordinary for the Galaxy,'' Garber said. 
If Beckham does not return to the Galaxy, his departure will represent a public relations setback for M.L.S. as the league enters its 14th season. And it would bring a premature end to Beckham's stated desire upon joining the Galaxy in 2007 to serve as an ambassador for American soccer, bringing the sport expanded attention and credibility.
''Whichever way you spin it, it's a setback; it underlines for all the world to see that the M.L.S. is a second-rate league,'' said Andrei Markovits, a University of Michigan professor and author of the book ''Offside: Soccer and American Exceptionalism.''
''Beckham made it very clear that this is the case,'' Markovits said. ''The guy has a presence; he was on 'SportsCenter' all the time. He drew soccer into the discourse of the general public. Now that would be gone. What he is saying is, 'I can't play with you guys; you're not as good.' ''
In the long term, though, league officials and some sports business experts say that the Beckham venture, even if curtailed, can be viewed in a positive light. Though he arrived injured and may depart early, Beckham brought newfound buzz to M.L.S., helped increase league attendance and boosted its profile around the world. The fact that he could not dominate spoke to the rising caliber of play in the league, Arena said.
Garber said that even his hiking guide in a small Chinese village knew of the Galaxy last summer because of Beckham. ''For anybody to think of this as a negative is not thinking all the way through,'' Garber said. ''In time, this will be seen as an important chapter in the evolution of Major League Soccer. Wherever I go in the U.S. and abroad, more people know about our league than before David played.''
In expressing his desire to remain with A.C. Milan, having fulfilled two years of a five-year contract with Los Angeles, Beckham has said it will be ''difficult'' to return to M.L.S. And many commentators wonder why the Galaxy would want a player who didn't want the Galaxy.
If Beckham does return to the Galaxy, though, it will be in his best interest to perform at a top level for the 2009 season. If not, he risks the indifference of A.C. Milan and other international clubs when the escape clause in his Galaxy contract activates in November. And he also risks losing a spot on the English national team for the 2010 World Cup, to be played in South Africa.
''If he came back, there's no question in my mind that he'd be very professional,'' Arena said of Beckham, a midfielder.
According to The Los Angeles Times, A.C. Milan's first bid for Beckham was for $3 million, while the Galaxy and M.L.S. have been seeking $10 million to $15 million.
Should further negotiations conclude with Beckham remaining in Milan, his departure might be best viewed as an inevitable growing pain for M.L.S., said David Carter, executive director of the Sports Business Institute at the University of Southern California.
The true success or failure of the Beckham undertaking will have to be measured over time, Carter said, adding that no league yokes its viability to one player. If M.L.S. continues to escalate the quality of play by attracting some of the world's top players, and elevating its reputation, then Beckham's presence will be viewed favorably as an accelerant, Carter said.
''Beckham at least rang the doorbell and a lot of people answered,'' Carter said. ''If he gets people to sample the league, and they are serviced well at the gate and the quality of play picks up, then over time you are in a position to build a great league. It's a marathon, not a sprint.''
Though faced, like other leagues, with a severe economic downturn, M.L.S. plans to continue a business model of slow, steady growth -- small steps instead of giant leaps.
Since 2003, the number of team owners in the centrally operated league has grown to 15 from 3. A 16th team is set to begin play, in Philadelphia, in 2010. Soon, the 17th and 18th clubs are expected to be awarded, to begin play in 2011. By next year, nine stadiums built specifically for soccer are scheduled to be operational.
Beckham's presence, along with other stars like Cuauhtemoc Blanco of the Chicago Fire and Juan Pablo Angel of the Red Bulls, indicates that M.L.S. is now a player in the international transfer market. Not a major player yet, but a player nonetheless.
''Do we have the ability to attract a Cristiano Ronaldo or Lionel Messi? No,'' Arena said. ''But there are players we can attract here.''
In a broader sense, Beckham's leaving permanently for A.C. Milan would probably have little or no effect on dampening the overall growth of soccer in this country.
Last week's World Cup qualifying match between the United States and Mexico drew 1.2 million television viewers on ESPN2 -- the most ever for a qualifying match on the cable channel. Univision, the Spanish-language network, said the match drew 10.7 million viewers -- the largest for a sporting event on Spanish-language television.
The final of the 2006 World Cup between France and Italy drew 16.9 million combined television viewers on ABC and Univision, compared with an average of 15.8 million viewers for the 2006 World Series shown on Fox.
Ultimately, the ascent of soccer in this country depends on the success of the men's national team, Markovits, the professor and author, said.
''If the men's national team, in the next World Cup, or in 2014 or 2018, comes in third, after beating Argentina and losing to Brazil or Germany, that will do more for soccer's cultural presence in the U.S. than Beckham,'' Markovits said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Beckham has said he wants to leave the Galaxy and stay with Italy's A.C. Milan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/GETTY IMAGES)(B10)
David Beckham was enthusiastically greeted by fans when he and the Galaxy played in Hong Kong in March 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Beckham has raised attendance in M.L.S., and the league's worldwide profile.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); HONG KONG (79%); ITALY (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011



740 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 74 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Deere Fell 45% in Quarter

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Profit in the first quarter dropped 45 percent at Deere, the world's largest maker of farm equipment, as the global slowdown, high raw material costs and currency fluctuations hurt results.
 The company, based in Moline, Ill., also scaled back its 2009 outlook and suspended quarterly profit forecasts, citing the economy. Deere has faced sharply lower demand for equipment like backhoes and excavators as the construction market has slowed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (85%); CURRENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



741 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: MBIA Plans To Spin Off Municipal Bond Unit

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
State and local governments and the investors who buy their bonds got a bit of welcome news on Wednesday as the leading bond insurer took steps to restore its credibility. 
 The insurer, MBIA, said that it had worked out a restructuring under the guidance of the New York State Insurance Department after growing frustrated with its unanswered appeals for aid from Washington.
 The company split off its core business of insuring municipal bonds into an independent operating subsidiary called the National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, which will have headquarters in New York. 
 Its remaining businesses -- insuring structured finance products -- are considered far riskier, and the company's credit ratings plunged last year as investors grew concerned about the potential losses in the financial crisis. Without a stellar credit rating, the company's municipal bond insurance was essentially worthless. 
 The new municipal bond insurance unit aims to achieve a triple-A rating in coming months, and the immediate separation from the riskier lines will provide some comfort to those who already own about $550 billion worth of municipal bonds that were first issued with MBIA insurance.
 States, cities and the thousands of authorities that operate public works like turnpikes and hospitals have found it difficult to raise money since last fall. And some local officials say they believe that if they could buy municipal bond insurance affordably from a well-rated company again, they would have easier access to money. 
 As part of the negotiations with MBIA, insurance regulators in New York State and Illinois wanted to make sure the company did not strip too much capital out of its structured-finance business in its eagerness to get the municipal business back on its feet. 
 The regulators ultimately agreed that MBIA could send $5.7 billion in capital to the new muni insurance company and keep the remaining $10.1 billion with the structured-finance business, which will continue to use the name MBIA. 
 Eric R. Dinallo, the New York State insurance superintendent, called those proportions ''fair to all policyholders -- the bank counterparties and other policyholders of the structured financings, and the owners and issuers of municipal bonds.''
 MBIA's chief executive, Joseph W. Brown Jr., said regulators and independent analysts had spent weeks conducting stress tests of both the new company and the old one, and were satisfied that each could withstand various adverse conditions. 
 ''Both came to the same conclusion: that we would continue to have the resources to pay all expected claims as they came due,'' Mr. Brown said in a letter to shareholders issued Wednesday. 
 In an interview, Mr. Brown said he had watched the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve spend vast amounts of time and resources on the nation's troubled banks, insurance companies and auto industry.
 ''We kept thinking that the feds were going to do something on the public finance side, that they were going to provide a liquidity facility or maybe make TARP funds available,'' Mr. Brown said. ''But nothing happened. We weren't an immediate problem.''
 Standard & Poor's said Wednesday that it had assigned the new muni insurance company a double-A-minus rating, citing ''uncertainty regarding investors' acceptance of the restructuring.'' It gave the structured-finance insurer, MBIA, a triple-B-plus rating, with a negative outlook, meaning that its credit rating could go lower. 
 When MBIA lost its long-time triple-A credit rating last year, the local governments that had bought its insurance instantly lost theirs, too. Many institutional investors, like mutual funds, have rules against buying municipal bonds with low credit ratings. 
 The new muni unit will seek additional capital in hopes of eventually recovering that top-notch credit rating.
 Until last year's market collapse, bond insurers like MBIA ran a stable, profitable business by promising to make investors whole if a government ever defaulted on its obligations. Because states and local governments seldom default, the insurers could charge relatively low premiums, making the insurance affordable for governments, even if they had less than perfect creditworthiness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



742 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Who Moved My Bonus?

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
It is not just Wall Street executives who banked on receiving year-end bonuses to support their lifestyles when the economy was booming. A more muted form of the bonus culture extends across the United States.
 Millions of Americans, far removed from Lower Manhattan, count on receiving extra checks to help pay for cars, trips, home renovations, and school tuitions and summer camp for their children. 
 Now, in the 14th month of a deepening recession, smaller bonus checks are arriving, if they come at all, and are delivering diminished expectations. 
 Anthony Abraham, 33, a management consultant in Chicago, is already figuring he will not be buying a new car, and has canceled a trip to Paris and will be paying back less than planned on his student loans. 
 Last year, his bonus was around $50,000. This year, it will be half that amount, he figures, give or take a few thousand.
 ''It makes a real material difference,'' said Mr. Abraham, who has a $135,000 base salary. His bonus has typically gone to basic lifestyle maintenance, not frivolity, he said, adding, ''It's not the kind of money where I could head down to the Ferrari dealership.''
 To critics, including President Obama, the multimillion-dollar Wall Street bonuses have come to symbolize capitalist excess. For example, 700 Merrill Lynch employees divided $3.6 billion in bonuses, for an average of more than $5.1 million each, even though the brokerage firm lost $27 billion last year. 
 A provision in the $787 billion stimulus bill passed by Congress on Friday would prohibit cash bonuses for the five most senior officers and the 20 highest-paid executives at large banks that receive money under the Treasury Department's bank rescue program. It would also bar other executives from receiving bonuses exceeding one-third of their annual pay. 
 Meanwhile, other workers' bonuses are being scaled back because of business conditions. About 10 percent of workers nationwide receive annual bonuses, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. They are awarded in widely varying amounts, and at companies big and small. For instance, 14 percent of employees at companies with fewer than 99 workers get some extra year-end compensation, the federal agency said.
 Companies of all sizes -- and even many nonprofit organizations, like school districts -- have adopted bonus systems for a variety of reasons: as a way to reward performance, to hold down base-pay levels, and to provide more flexibility to smooth out costs. And workers naturally enjoyed the smaller-than-Wall-Street windfalls when the economy was booming.
 But such a system can also mean sharp swings in pay in a ravaged economy like this one. And the trickle-down effect can hurt prospects for restaurants, real estate agencies and other businesses that rely on discretionary purchases.
 ''People have begun to live as if bonuses were not bonuses at all but part of their expected annual income,'' said Jay Lorsch, a professor at the Harvard School of Business. ''When those bonuses don't come through or are substantially reduced, people have to take it out of their lifestyles.''
 Smaller bonuses mean another hit to the economy that is not reflected in some of the broadest measures of the nation's health, like the growing unemployment figures that have become shorthand for the misfortunes of America's workers. 
 In 2007, Jan Klincewicz, 50, was selling high-end corporate computers for Hewlett-Packard. He had a base salary of $87,000. His performance bonus was $143,000, and he used the proceeds to help buy a five-bedroom house outside of Philadelphia, a 65-inch high-definition television and a baritone saxophone. 
 In 2008, he switched to another company, Citrix Systems, where he hoped for a repeat performance selling software for high-end computers. His base salary was $108,000, but his bonus was only $24,000. He is not sure what the future holds, given the rough economy.
 ''I shop for bargains,'' he said.
 Across the country, bonuses are structured in many different ways. Some firms pay them based on individual performance or some combination of individual and corporate performance. And some regions and industries have their own peculiar bonus-pay cultures. 
 In Silicon Valley, performance-based compensation can come in sales commissions, as it does for Mr. Klincewicz. But more typically, people there get stock-option incentive packages that are not paid at year-end but can be cashed in by employees after a certain period of time, assuming the stock has risen enough to make the options valuable.
 Given the state of the stock market, the options returns are as meager as the year-end bonuses handed out elsewhere, according to Silicon Valley residents. Some of the local business are feeling the pinch.
 At the Silicon Valley Auto Group, a dealership in Los Gatos that sells Rolls Royce, Bentley and Lamborghini cars, the least expensive costing $60,000, the sales manager, Matthew Griffin, said he was not expecting the usual bonus-generated bump in sales. But that is not entirely because his clientele cannot afford to buy.
 ''Is it the politically correct thing to do when you're consolidating offices and laying off people to show up in a new $400,000 car?'' he asked. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about smaller bonuses outside the financial industry referred incorrectly to bonus awards at Merrill Lynch for 2008. While 700 of the firm's employees received bonuses of $1 million or more each, they did not divide the full $3.6 billion bonus pool. That amount financed bonuses for thousands of Merrill's workers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 2007, Jan Klincewicz received a $143,000 bonus, helping him buy a house, a big-screen TV and a baritone sax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Matthew Griffin, a car salesman in Los Gatos, Calif., is seeking a buyer for a $375,000 Bentley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CHILDREN (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); RESTAURANTS (62%); BUILDING RENOVATION (56%); NEW CAR DEALERS (51%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



743 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: The Venturesome Set Out, Even Now

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT may seem counterintuitive that in the midst of this global economic crisis a substantial number of entrepreneurs, investors and venture capital financiers are interested in starting a company. 
 But that appears to be the case in Southern California. Two senior biotechnology executives are starting a pharmaceutical company, for example. In another case, a software manager is raising fresh capital to finance the expansion of a new product. A longtime Internet entrepreneur is starting a new company. And a venture capital company in Los Angeles is raising money for an 18-month-old fund to invest in small private companies. 
 Nobody denies that obtaining financing is difficult these days, but more than 250 people showed up at a Caltech/MIT Enterprise Forum in January to hear experts offer what was described as ''Critical Insights on Building a Successful Venture in Challenging Times.'' The forum was established about 25 years ago, to encourage technology ventures in Southern California. 
 In April, the Los Angeles Venture Association expects more than 1,000 people to attend its investment forum on ''Growing Companies in an Economic Downturn,'' which it is holding in Anaheim with the Harvard Business School Alumni Association of Orange County.
 To help finance their start-up, Cure Pharmaceutical L.L.C., two former executives at Amgen are putting in their own money while they seek grants from foundations. Their plan is to help develop drugs to combat diseases in developing countries, including H.I.V. and AIDS, hepatitis C and malaria. 
 The start-up is another step in a personal quest by Edward E. Bjurstrom, Cure's co-founder and president. He said he left his job as vice president of Amgen for worldwide manufacturing in 2005 because ''I wanted to do something meaningful to address the needs of developing countries'' for access to advanced medicines. Mr. Bjurstrom said he first started a charitable foundation, CareNow, and then founded Cure with Edward G. Maliski, a research and development executive who had left Amgen in a corporate restructuring in 2007. ''The financial package offered by Amgen made Cure possible,'' Mr. Maliski said. 
 The new company relies on compounds developed by Dr. Mladen Trkovnik of Zagreb, Croatia, that Cure Pharmaceutical licensed in September. ''Our purpose is to bring them into broader development and testing in developing countries,'' Mr. Bjurstrom said.
 He said the new company has a pledge of financing for work on H.I.V.-related medicines from the Joshua W. Lavender Foundation, which brought Dr. Trkovnik's work to Mr. Bjurstrom's attention. Cure Pharmaceutical has also applied for a grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for its work on drugs to combat hepatitis C. The company is also pursuing drugs to combat malaria in children.
 Mr. Bjurstrom estimates that Cure will need $3 million over the next two years to develop and test drugs in developing countries. The company is hoping to have about a dozen full-time employees, said Mr. Maliski, the chief operating officer, along with contract workers. ''A tremendous amount of underutilized talent is available to work on contract,'' Mr. Maliski said. ''And laboratory space is abundant to be rented out on contract.'' 
 Ultimately, Mr. Bjurstrom said, full Food and Drug Administration trials in the United States will require finances of more than $10 million. For that, Cure will seek a partnership with a large pharmaceutical company or sell out to one, he said. 
 A second company that is trying to take advantage of the weak economy is Big Stage Entertainment, a two-year-old company that produces three-dimensional software allowing users to integrate their own images, or avatars, into movie scenes, television shows, video games and social networks. Phil Ressler, the company's new president, has just raised $3 million from backers. The company had already received almost $8 million in venture financing. 
 Big Stage's technology grew out of government-sponsored research into facial recognition software at the University of Southern California, which licensed it to Big Stage for commercial development. ''We launched the product in September and took in $60,000 in the fourth quarter,'' said Mr. Ressler, who became chief executive in July. Initial customers have been using the technology for online business promotions and video conferences. 
 He said he was raising the additional capital from Mission Ventures, Tech Coast Angels investors and others, he said, ''because in bad times you have to move forward; you can't save your way to success.'' 
 Mr. Ressler says he is hoping that Big Stage takes in $2.9 million in 2009 and hits subsequent revenue targets in 2010 and beyond. If the business fails to meet his targets, he said, he will advise backers to sell the company. ''But I want to sell a business that is still writing orders, not one that's stalled out,'' he said. 
 Jake Winebaum said he was starting an Internet company but could not discuss specifics yet. Mr. Winebaum was one of the organizers of eCompanies.com, an incubator for start-ups in the dot-com boom of 2000. When the boom collapsed, Mr. Winebaum led Business.com through lean years and successful ones as an online marketplace for referrals to business services and products.
 ''From the start, even when things looked bad in 2001, I had entrepreneurs logging on, asking us to find this kind of insurance company or that kind of manufacturing part,'' Mr. Winebaum said. He said he sold Business.com in July 2007 for $345 million to the R. H. Donnelley Corporation, the publisher of Yellow Pages directories, and left that company in May 2008. 
 Now he is planning a new company. ''The Internet will continue to develop at the center of all media and business over the next two years,'' Mr. Winebaum said in an interview. ''So the time to start a company is now, when there is less competition because few people are starting businesses.'' 
 He added, ''I can put up some of my own money and raise capital from other investors.''
 Frank R. Kline, managing partner of Kline Hawkes & Company, a venture capital firm in Los Angeles, has a similar conviction that now is a time to start something. Kline Hawkes, which has invested $300 million in 44 companies in the last 15 years, sold one its investments, Cyalume Light Technologies, to a special-purpose acquisition corporation last year for $120 million, Mr. Kline said. 
 He said he expected more sales of small companies. So Kline Hawkes is raising money for KH Growth Equity, a relatively new fund that aims to invest up to $15 million to help small companies expand in the expectation that there will come a time to sell the businesses. ''There will be change of control, owners will be selling out, moving on,'' Mr. Kline said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Edward Maliski, a scientist at Cure Pharmaceutical
Edward Bjurstrom, its chief
 and Gerald Ruhland, a spokesman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); MALARIA (87%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); CHARITIES (75%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); ALUMNI (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); HEPATITIS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); HEPATITIS C (64%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (62%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%)

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (85%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) CROATIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



744 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Economy Hits Hard On Black Campuses

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
On Tuesday, Morris Brown College, one of a cluster of historically black institutions here, narrowly averted having its water shut off for the second time this school year by paying $150,000 toward an outstanding bill of more than $200,000.
 But the college is not yet in the clear financially: It is down to 151 students and is $30 million in debt. 
 Morris Brown's problems stem largely from financial mismanagement that led in 2003 to a loss of accreditation for the college, which once had 2,600 students. But its ability to right itself has been hampered by an economy that has had disproportionately severe effects on historically black colleges and universities. 
 Clark Atlanta University, citing an ''enrollment emergency,'' laid off 70 faculty and 30 staff members this month and canceled physical education classes. Spelman, an Atlanta college for women that is among the wealthiest and most prestigious historically black colleges, has eliminated 35 staff positions and is projecting a $4.8 million deficit next year after a decline in its enrollment.
 Stillman College in Tuscaloosa, Ala., announced campuswide salary reductions and a furlough program, among other cuts, last week. Tennessee State University in Nashville, where enrollment is down 10 percent from last year, has eliminated 52 positions and is considering a reduction in scholarship money. 
 Colleges and universities of all kinds across the country are facing shrunken endowments, decreased giving and government cutbacks, and many have reduced their payroll and list of classes. But historically black institutions have two significant disadvantages when it comes to weathering hard times: smaller endowments, which mean heavier reliance on tuition and fees, and a higher proportion of disadvantaged students who are now facing a credit crunch when they apply for loans. 
 ''At some institutions, you might be going from eating brie to cheddar, while at H.B.C.U.'s, you might not have any cheese left,'' said Marybeth Gasman, an expert on historically black colleges and universities, often shortened to H.B.C.U.'s, at the University of Pennsylvania.
 At Clark Atlanta, 98 percent of the students qualify for financial aid, much higher than the national average of about 70 percent. At Spelman and its brother college for men, Morehouse, also in Atlanta, about 40 percent of students are eligible for federal Pell Grants, which typically go to students whose family income is less than $40,000 a year. 
 Nationally, fewer than 30 percent of students at four-year institutions receive Pell Grants, according to the most recent statistics from the National Center for Education Statistics. Among historically black institutions, Spelman and Morehouse are on the low end for Pell Grants, said Michael L. Lomax, the chief executive of the United Negro College Fund. Some student bodies are more than 90 percent eligible, he said.
 Many students are the first in their families to go to college, and higher education is a luxury for them, said Cynthia Brooks, the vice president for business and finance at Tennessee State University. ''With the economy the way it is, people are weighing every financial decision, including education,'' Ms. Brooks said.
 Historically black colleges and universities have a proud lineage. Most of them are in the South and many, like Morris Brown, which was founded in a church basement by former slaves, date to Reconstruction. But many lack a robust tradition of giving, in part because many have only recently begun methodically cultivating students to become donors. Still, the institutions can command deep loyalty. 
 On Tuesday, Morris Brown raised $90,000 in six hours to help pay the water bill, said Stanley Pritchett Sr., the interim president. 
 Though the number of black students who choose to go to primarily black institutions has slowly declined over the last few decades, the institutions' defenders say they provide environments in which black students who might otherwise have trouble graduating can flourish. 
 Fewer than 12 percent of all black college students today choose to attend historically black colleges, yet those institutions grant almost 20 percent of the bachelor's degrees earned by black students. According to the United Negro College Fund, black colleges have produced 70 percent of all black doctors and dentists and 50 percent of black engineers. 
 But resources for those students are shrinking, Mr. Lomax said. The amount the United Negro College Fund has collected for scholarships was down 10 percent in 2008, Mr. Lomax said, while the number of applications rose by 26 percent. Smaller donations could mean less support for the fund's 39 member colleges, which typically receive an average of $1 million each in operating support annually.
 In a recession, the demand for education can rise as people decide to go back to school to increase their chances of employment or bide their time. ''I was at Morehouse last week and was talking to their admissions people, and applications are up,'' Mr. Lomax said. ''But at the end of the day, those students also have to have the financial resources to enroll.''
 Howard University in Washington, whose endowment of $400 million makes it the wealthiest historically black college, has not yet had to make serious cutbacks, but its leaders have decided to allocate more money to scholarships, said Sidney Evans, the chief financial officer. Spelman has started an emergency fund to ensure students do not have to drop out because they cannot pay their bills. 
 Beverly D. Tatum, Spelman's president, said she was focusing first on juniors and seniors who had already invested years, and thousands of dollars, in their education. ''To come and have debt and no degree,'' Dr. Tatum said, ''seems like a worst-case scenario.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the toll of the poor economy on traditionally black colleges referred incorrectly to the financial condition of Spelman College in Atlanta. The college has eliminated 35 staff positions to compensate for a projected $4.8 million deficit. It is not projecting the deficit after the positions are eliminated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Clark Atlanta University, officials this month cut back on faculty, staff and class offerings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY W. A. HAREWOOD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (73%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



745 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: As Earnings Drop 32%, Comcast Raises Dividend

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Comcast Corporation, the nation's largest cable TV provider, said Wednesday that its fourth-quarter earnings fell 32 percent, hampered by a $600 million write-down of its investment in the Clearwire Corporation, the wireless technology provider.
 Comcast's revenue and adjusted earnings beat Wall Street estimates, however, helped by growth in Comcast's video segment.
 Comcast also raised its annual dividend by 2 cents a share, to 27 cents.
 In the fourth quarter, Philadelphia-based Comcast earned $412 million, or 14 cents a share, compared with $602 million, or 20 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago.
 The Clearwire write-down was expected; other investors like Google, the Intel Corporation and Time Warner Cable have recently taken similar charges against their earnings.
 Excluding items like the Clearwire charge, Comcast earned 27 cents a share, up 7 cents a share from the same quarter last year. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected an adjusted profit of 22 cents a share.
 Comcast's revenue rose 9 percent, to $8.77 billion, ahead of analyst forecasts for $8.64 billion in revenue.
 Comcast's video revenue rose 3 percent to $4.74 billion. The company lost 233,000 basic subscribers in the quarter but gained 247,000 digital customers, who pay more for service. Its average revenue per video customer rose 9 percent, to $113.80 a month, helped by customers adding to their cable channel lineup, even in the recession.
 Revenue from broadband Internet services rose 9 percent, to $1.86 billion. Comcast added 184,000 Internet subscribers during the quarter, down 46 percent from the 341,000 it added in the year-ago quarter. The company ended the period with 14.9 million broadband customers.
 Revenue from Comcast's digital phone segment rose 45 percent, to $731 million. However, the company's addition of 344,000 digital phone customers was down 44 percent from the amount added in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 For the year, Comcast earned $2.55 billion, or 86 cents a share. Comcast earned $2.59 billion, or 83 cents a share, in 2007. The company's revenue rose 11 percent, to $34.3 billion, in 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); BROADBAND (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (95%); CLEARWIRE CORP (95%); INTEL CORP (84%); GOOGLE INC (58%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (56%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (95%); CCV (NYSE) (95%); CLWR (NASDAQ) (95%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); TWC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



746 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Terrorism Trial for Figure In Zimbabwe Opposition

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER; A reporter in Mutare, Zimbabwe, contributed to this article.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
A magistrate in Zimbabwe on Wednesday ruled that Roy Bennett, the third-highest-ranking member of the political opposition, should be tried on terrorism charges and remain in prison for at least the next three weeks.
 Mr. Bennett, who was to be sworn in Wednesday as deputy agriculture minister in the new power-sharing government of the opposition and President Robert Mugabe's party, was taken back to a prison cell, clad in the white shorts and khaki shirt issued to inmates. He and his party have denied the charges against him.
 His case has become the highest-profile test of whether the opposition party and its leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, the new prime minister, will have the clout to insist on a return to democracy and the rule of law. Over the years, Zimbabwe's judicial system has been compromised by threats of violence against judges who went against Mr. Mugabe's wishes, and by gifts of land and other luxury goods to compliant judges. 
 Mr. Bennett, who after three years in exile returned only recently to Zimbabwe because his party agreed to join the government, sadly shook his head, with his hand over his mouth, when the provincial magistrate, Livingstone Chipadze, announced that the state had sufficient grounds to hold him on charges of possessing unlicensed firearms with the intent to commit acts of terrorism and sabotage against the state.
 Mr. Bennett's lawyers said they would appeal the ruling.
 Even as his case took a discouraging turn for his party, another opposition official who had faced treason charges that were only recently withdrawn, Tendai Biti, the new finance minister, announced that the government would pay 130,000 soldiers, teachers and civil servants $100 a month in American dollars. Mr. Biti hopes it will get them back to work, but the move also seems intended to help win their loyalty to the new government. 
 Zimbabwe has one of the most astronomical rates of inflation in world history, and it has rendered the pay of public employees virtually worthless.
 The United States and Britain, which have been the largest donors of food and other humanitarian aid to Zimbabwe, have said they will wait and see whether Mr. Mugabe is genuinely willing to share power before committing large amounts of money to help rebuild the country's shattered economy.
 They have been closely watching the treatment of imprisoned human rights and opposition activists who have been held for weeks or months without bail, as well as Mr. Bennett's case. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai said over the weekend that the arrest of Mr. Bennett, the party's treasurer, was a political act engineered by elements of Mr. Mugabe's party, ZANU-PF, that are bent on undermining the political settlement. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai won more votes than Mr. Mugabe in March elections, but quit before a presidential runoff after more than 100 of his supporters were murdered and thousands beaten in state-sponsored attacks.
 Mr. Bennett is a white farmer who was elected earlier to Parliament by a rural, black constituency in the Manicaland Province, where he is now imprisoned. He fled the country three years ago after he was linked to an arms cache the state alleged was to be used in acts of sabotage, and, before his recent return, had lived in exile in Johannesburg. 
 Hundreds of his supporters have kept a vigil outside the police station and court house since he was brought to Mutare on Friday after his arrest. They listened quietly Wednesday as the provincial opposition chairman, Senator Patrick Chitaka, told them the news about Mr. Bennett's case.
 ''We don't want you to cause any violence,'' he said. ''Let's show them we're the government now ruling.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MAGISTRATES (90%); PRISONS (89%); TREASON (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); APPEALS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); HISTORY (61%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



747 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; BASICS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Low-Tech Fixes for High-Tech Problems

BYLINE: By PAUL BOUTIN

 BODY:
BEHIND the cash register at Smoke Shop No. 2 in downtown San Francisco, Sam Azar swipes a customer's credit card to ring up Turkish cigarettes. The store's card reader fails to scan the card's magnetic strip. Azar swipes again, and again. No luck. 
 As customers begin to queue, he reaches beneath the counter for a black plastic bag. He wraps one layer of the plastic around the card and swipes it again. Success. The sale is rung up.
 ''I don't know how it works, it just does,'' says Mr. Azar, who learned the trick years ago from another clerk. Verifone, the company that makes the store's card reader, would not confirm or deny that the plastic bag trick works. But it's one of many low-tech fixes for high-tech failures that people without engineering degrees have discovered, often out of desperation, and shared.
 Today's shaky economy is likely to produce many more such tricks. ''In postwar Japan, the economy wasn't doing so great, so you couldn't get everyday-use items like household cleaners,'' says Lisa Katayama, author of ''Urawaza,'' a book named after the Japanese term for clever lifestyle tips and tricks. ''So people looked for ways to do with what they had.'' 
 Popular urawaza include picking up broken glass from the kitchen floor with a slice of bread, or placing houseplants on a water-soaked diaper to keep them watered during a vacation trip.
 Today, Americans are finding their own tips and tricks for fixing misbehaving gadgets with supplies as simple as paper and adhesive tape. Some, like Mr. Azar's plastic bag, are open to argument as to how they work, or whether they really work at all. But many tech home remedies can be explained by a little science.
 Cellphone Losing Charge
 If your cellphone loses its battery charge too quickly while idle in your pocket, part of the problem may be that your pocket is too warm. 
 ''Cellphone batteries do indeed last a bit longer if kept cool,'' says Isidor Buchanan, editor of the Battery University Web site. The 98.6-degree body heat of a human, transmitted through a cloth pocket to a cellphone inside, is enough to speed up chemical processes inside the phone's battery. That makes it run down faster. To keep the phone cooler, carry it in your purse or on your belt. 
 This same method can be used to preserve your battery should you find yourself away from home without your charger. Turn off the phone and put it in the hotel refrigerator overnight to slow the battery's natural tendency to lose its charge.
 Remote Car Key
 Suppose your remote car door opener does not have the range to reach your car across the parking lot. Hold the metal key part of your key fob against your chin, then push the unlock button. The trick turns your head into an antenna, says Tim Pozar, a Silicon Valley radio engineer. 
 Mr. Pozar explains, ''You are capacitively coupling the fob to your head. With all the fluids in your head it ends up being a nice conductor. Not a great one, but it works.'' Using your head can extend the key's wireless range by a few car lengths. 
 Dry Ink Cartridge
 If your printer's ink cartridge runs dry near the end of an important print job, remove the cartridge and run a hair dryer on it for two to three minutes. Then place the cartridge back into the printer and try again while it is still warm. 
 ''The heat from the hair dryer heats the thick ink, and helps it to flow through the tiny nozzles in the cartridge,'' says Alex Cox, a software engineer in Seattle. ''When the cartridge is almost dead, those nozzles are often nearly clogged with dried ink, so helping the ink to flow will let more ink out of the nozzles.'' The hair dryer trick can squeeze a few more pages out of a cartridge after the printer declares it is empty. 
 Cellphone in the Toilet
 It could happen to anyone: you dropped your cellphone in the toilet. Take the battery out immediately, to prevent electrical short circuits from frying your phone's fragile internals. Then, wipe the phone gently with a towel, and shove it into a jar full of uncooked rice. 
 It works for the same reason you may keep few grains of rice in your salt shaker to keep the salt dry. Rice has a high chemical affinity for water -- that means the molecules in the rice have a nearly magnetic attraction for water molecules, which will be soaked up into the rice rather than beading up inside the phone. 
 It is a low-tech version of the ''Do Not Eat'' desiccant packets that may have been packed in the box the phone came in, to keep moisture away from the circuitry during shipping and storage. 
 Longer Wi-Fi Reach
 If your home Wi-Fi router doesn't reach the other end of the house, don't rush out to buy more wireless gear to stretch your network. Instead, build a six-inch-high passive radio wave reflector from kitchen items, like an aluminum cookie sheet. 
 Follow the instructions at freeantennas.com/projects/template. Place the completed reflector -- a small, curved piece of metal that reflects radio waves just like a satellite TV dish -- behind your Wi-Fi router. It focuses the router's energy in one direction -- toward the other end of the house -- rather than letting it dissipate its strength in a full circle. No cables, no batteries, no technical knowledge required. Yet it can easily double the range of your network.
 Dirty Discs
 You need to clean a skipping DVD or CD, but as a bachelor you don't have any sissy cleaning fluids? Soak a washcloth with vodka or mouthwash. 
 Alcohol is a powerful solvent, perfectly capable of dissolving fingerprints and grime on the surface of a disc. A $5 bottle of Listerine in your medicine cabinet may do the job as effectively as a $75 bottle of DVD cleaning fluid. Also, swabbing your copy of ''Lost Weekend'' with Stoli instead of fussing with a Discwasher kit is a lot more manly.
 Too Much Flash
 If your cellphone's built-in camera flash is much too bright, washing out photos, tape a small piece of paper over the flash. Experiment with different colors and thicknesses of paper to tone down the flash from superbright white to a more pleasing glow for evening photos.
 Crashed Hard Drive
 If -- no, make that when -- your PC's hard drive crashes and can't be read, don't be too quick to throw it out. Stick it in the freezer overnight. 
 ''The trick is a real and proven, albeit last resort, recovery technique for some kinds of otherwise-fatal hard-drive problems,'' writes Fred Langa on his Windows Secrets Web site. Many hard drive failures are caused by worn parts that no longer align properly, making it impossible to read data from the drive. Lowering the drive's temperature causes its metal and plastic internals to contract ever so slightly. Taking the drive out of the freezer, and returning it to room temperature can cause those parts to expand again.
 That may help free up binding parts, Mr. Langa explains, or at least let a failing electrical component remain within specs long enough for you to recover your essential data. 
 That's the spirit of folk remedies: They may or may not work, but what have you got to lose?

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PHIL MARDEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO STORES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (73%); WRITERS (71%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (66%); CLEANERS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (75%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



748 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: A Swiss Bank, Not by Choice, Will Open Files

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
In the hush-hush world of Swiss banking, the unthinkable is happening: secrets are spilling into the open. 
 UBS, the largest bank in Switzerland, agreed on Wednesday to divulge the names of well-heeled Americans whom the authorities suspect of using offshore accounts at the bank to evade taxes. The bank admitted conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and agreed to pay $780 million to settle a sweeping federal investigation into its activities. 
 It is unclear how many of its clients' names UBS will divulge. Federal prosecutors have been examining about 19,000 accounts at the bank, but UBS ultimately may disclose the identities of only a few hundred customers.
 But to some, turning over any names at all heralds the end of the secret Swiss bank account, whose traditions date to the Middle Ages. 
 ''The Swiss are saying that this is the end of Swiss banking as they knew it,'' said Jack Blum, an offshore tax specialist. ''Nobody will trust the security of the Swiss bank account.'' 
 As part of the settlement, UBS agreed to cooperate with a broad summons issued by the Justice Department to turn over the names. Under the terms of a so-called deferred prosecution agreement, the bank and its executives could be indicted if UBS didn't identify the customers. 
 UBS has said it is closing the offshore accounts of its American clients. But under the deal with the United States authorities, the bank must provide periodic written evidence of that to prosecutors. UBS earned $200 million annually from the business.
 Prosecutors suspect that from late 2002 to 2007, UBS helped American clients illegally hide $20 billion, letting them evade $300 million a year in taxes. 
 In a striking admission, UBS said that from 2000 through 2007, some of its private bankers and managers had ''participated in a scheme to defraud the United States'' and the I.R.S. by helping American clients set up and conceal offshore accounts. The scheme involved falsifying or not properly obtaining or filing certain tax forms required of both the bank and its clients.
 UBS's offshore private banking business once employed some 60 private bankers in Lugano, Zurich and Geneva. Prosecutors claimed UBS referred clients to lawyers and accountants who set up secret offshore entities to conceal assets from the I.R.S.
 UBS urged some American clients to destroy records and to stash watches, jewelry and artwork that they had bought with money hidden offshore in safe deposit boxes in Switzerland. The bank also encouraged them to use Swiss credit cards so the I.R.S. could not track purchases. In a statement on Wednesday, Peter Kurer, the chairman of UBS, said that ''UBS sincerely regrets the compliance failures in its U.S. cross-border business that have been identified by the various government investigations in Switzerland and the U.S., as well as our own internal review. We accept full responsibility for these improper activities.'' 
 Marcel Rohner, the group chief executive of UBS, said in a statement that ''it is apparent that as an organization we made mistakes and that our control systems were inadequate.'' 
 In January a senior UBS executive, Raoul Weil, was declared a fugitive, two months after being indicted by a federal judge in connection with the investigation of the bank. Mr. Weil, a Swiss citizen, oversaw the cross-border private banking operations from 2002 to 2007.
 UBS had fiercely resisted turning over the names, even after some executives were indicted and implicated in the offshore private banking business. Swiss law distinguishes broadly between tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud. Unlike in the United States, tax evasion is not a criminal offense under Swiss law.
 The move by UBS to settle the case, on the eve of a Senate subcommittee hearing next Tuesday on the matter, signals how close the bank came to being indicted for not cooperating with prosecutors. Indictment is a near-certain death knell for corporations.
 Of the $780 million that UBS will pay, $380 million represents disgorgement of profits from its cross-border business. The remainder represents United States taxes that UBS failed to withhold on the accounts. The figures include interest, penalties and restitution for unpaid taxes
 As part of the deal, UBS also entered into a consent order with the Securities and Exchange Commission in which it agreed to charges of having acted as an unregistered broker-dealer and investment adviser for Americans. 
 The settlement caps a painful run for UBS, which suffered more than $50 billion in losses in the collapse of the American mortgage market and received a $60 billion bailout from the Swiss government last October.
 The bank will not have to pay additional fines and penalties, which could have brought the deal to more than $1 billion. People briefed on the issue said the banking crisis and the recession were factors in this decision by prosecutors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); LAWYERS (72%); INDICTMENTS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%) TINCINO, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



749 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Without Ramirez, Dodgers Enter Camp With Unfinished Business

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

DATELINE: GLENDALE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
About 70 lockers with nameplates make a square around the clubhouse at the Dodgers' fashionable spring training complex here. Not too inconspicuously, a corner locker, the one with the most desirable real estate, is the only one without a name.
 A minor league catcher, Esteban Lopez, is using the locker. No offense to Lopez, but the organization hopes he will vacate the area as soon as possible.
 With a fingers-crossed type of anticipation, the Dodgers are reserving the locker for Manny Ramirez, the mercurial and talented slugger who helped power the Dodgers into the playoffs last season but is currently a free agent in limbo, looking to add more years and more millions to the hefty single-season offer that the Dodgers' general manager, Ned Colletti, recently made to Ramirez's agent, Scott Boras. 
 ''Put it this way,'' the third-base coach Larry Bowa said of Ramirez, ''we check the papers to see if he signed with anybody else.''
 Ramirez's status is an overriding reason, but not the only one, the youthful Dodgers are at an important crossroads in franchise history. For the first time in 60 years, they are not training at Dodgertown in Vero Beach, Fla., the idyllic setting for old-time baseball where the broadcaster Vin Scully invited generations of fans to begin their spring with him. And it is here that Manager Joe Torre will face any lingering issues regarding ''The Yankee Years,'' the controversial book he co-wrote about the team he managed for 12 seasons.
 Chain-link fences and the steady hum of construction work abounds at Camelback Ranch, the new spring home the Dodgers share with the Chicago White Sox. The 141-acre facility sprawls across the high Arizona sky with a lake, walking trails and an orange grove.
 There are still palm trees, as in Vero Beach. But the complex lacks Dodgertown's homey touch and is more corporate than rustic.
 ''Growing up, you watch spring training Dodgers games in Vero Beach, but really, I think it makes the most sense to be out here,'' pitcher Randy Wolf said. ''A lot of Dodger fans want to come to spring training, and it's really hard to get from there to Vero Beach. It's a long flight. If you fly into Orlando, it's a long drive to Vero Beach. But when you come out here, it makes it a lot more accessible to Dodgers fans.''
 The teams expect the stadium to be ready for its first spring training game March 1. But in a moribund economy, there is already concern over whether the Dodgers will reap the immediate financial benefits they sought by making spring training more accessible to their core fan base.
 It is that economic situation -- and Ramirez's age, 37 -- that appears to limit his options and the Dodgers' negotiating power with him. Boras and Ramirez rejected the Dodgers' latest offer of $25 million for 2009; however, there appear to be no other legitimate suitors or offers waiting in the wings.
 ''I don't even want to think of the fact that he's not a Dodger,'' Torre said of Ramirez. ''I just don't want to think that way. The fact that I know that he enjoyed himself here last year and the fact that we want him back, hopefully, we can find a way to do it.''
 Colletti, the Dodgers' general manager, said he had talked with Boras recently about Ramirez and would continue to do so.
 ''There's only so many things you control in life,'' Colletti said. ''I certainly don't control him or Scott or anybody else. We do the best we can every day. We're hopeful that we can get something figured out at some point in time. But if not, we'll still play.''
 With the Boston Red Sox last season, Ramirez was ultimately ostracized because of his actions. But after he was traded, he lifted the Dodgers to a division title and nearly took them to the World Series.
 His former, and possibly current, teammates are in a wait-and-see pattern. The position players are now arriving in camp, so Ramirez's absence and its potential effect have been negligible so far. The addition of Ramirez would transform an average and youthful lineup including Andre Ethier, James Loney, Matt Kemp and Russell Martin into a threatening one. 
 ''You can talk about it all you want, but either he's going to sign with us or he's not,'' Martin said. ''So, we're just trying to not really think about it that much.''
 Torre said: ''We're all better if he's here offensively because of what he brings to the table and how much he scares the opposition. I can give you a chapter and verse on scaring the opposition.''
 The chapters of Torre's book created a considerable stir, particularly his unflattering comments about Alex Rodriguez and his somewhat uninhibited thoughts about other players and executives. But the Dodgers seem unconcerned about fallout from the book or the possibility that players might be less willing to confide in Torre. 
 ''Joe's a veteran,'' Colletti said. ''Manager, veteran, human being. If he senses that there's some anxiety or some uneasiness, I'm sure he'll address it either one on one or as a group.''
 Bowa, who coached with Torre on the Yankees, said he had read the book.
 ''If you just read snippets of it, you have a right to overreact,'' he said. ''But if you read it, I think it's a good book, I really do.'' 
 Why shouldn't Bowa put a positive spin on things? It is spring and change is in the air for the Dodgers. The overriding concern, though, is the locker with no nameplate -- the one that sits both occupied and unoccupied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Dodgers are sharing their new spring training home in Arizona with the Chicago White Sox.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (51%) ARIZONA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



750 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Construction Hits a Low

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
New-home construction fell to its lowest level on record in January as builders virtually closed up shop amid falling demand, tightened credit markets and a flood of foreclosure properties.
 The Commerce Department reported on Wednesday that privately owned housing starts in January fell 16.8 percent from December, to an annual rate of 466,000. That was the slowest pace since at least 1959.
 The numbers show a housing market that is still declining after more than two years of slumping prices and lower demand. Home values, which rose steadily for more than a decade, have fallen by an average of about 25 percent from their peaks, and economists expect that prices will continue to slide as more people lose their jobs and the economy slips deeper into recession.
 ''Housing and the U.S. economy are still in a freefall,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. ''It's clear that we haven't done anything to stabilize housing. We haven't stabilized the rise in foreclosures. And until we do that, I think we're not going to see a bottom.''
 President Obama is expected to address the foreclosure crisis and the floundering housing market, which lies at the center of the recession, in a speech later Wednesday in Phoenix. The administration has promised to use some $50 billion from the federal financial bailout to try to keep people in their homes.
 The pace of housing starts in January was 56.2 percent below its levels in January 2008, a sign of how sharply builders have scaled back construction. Single-family housing starts fell 12 percent from December, to an annual pace of 347,000.
 Building permits, which offer a glimpse of future construction, were also lower in January, falling 4.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted rate of 521,000.
 In normal times, builders need to construct anywhere from 1.25 million to 2 million new housing units every year to keep pace with immigration, the natural growth of the country's population and the demand for newer homes, said James Glassman, senior United States economist at JPMorgan Chase. 
 If there is one bright spot to dwindling new-home construction, it is that supplies will eventually fall in line with demand. At the end of December, the inventory of unsold homes fell to a 9.3-month supply from 11.2-month supply a month earlier, according to the National Association of Realtors.
 ''Eventually that's how you get your inventory in line,'' Mr. Glassman said. ''The problem with the builders is that they're competing with property that's coming to the market from foreclosures. There's this tug of war going on between the resale market and the builders.''
 In another report, the Federal Reserve said that industry production throttled back in January, mostly because of the auto industry. Production at the nation's factories, mines and utilities fell 1.8 percent last month, the Fed reported. It was the third consecutive month of production cut backs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BAILOUTS (74%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (52%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



751 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Giving Away Medical Care Isn't Easy

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: GRAND VIEW, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 If Lloyd Hamilton were writing a classified ad, it would sound too good to be true: ''Harvard Med School grad, retired from full-time practice, wants to serve the poor at low-cost clinic. Will work free.''
 Instead, it's not quite good enough. That's why Dr. Hamilton has spent the last few months meeting with lawyers and churches and charities and politicians in hopes of resuming the work he did for more than 15 years at a clinic until budget cuts this year closed it down. 
 Not too many people at 81 would be working so hard to try to do so much for so little. But that seems to be what it takes for him to return to something that once seemed pretty simple: being the health care provider at the bottom of the pecking order in Rockland County.
 ''Doc Hamilton is a cross between Spencer Tracy and Marcus Welby,'' said Dennis Lynch, a lawyer and longtime patient of Dr. Hamilton who is now trying to help him. Mr. Lynch said Dr. Hamilton's persistence may soon result in a new clinic to serve the poor. 
 ''He has single-handedly kept this thing going to the point where he may be a few days away from seeing his first patient,'' Mr. Lynch said.
 Since around 1991, Dr. Hamilton has been spending half a day each week at Rockland County's low-income clinic in Pomona.
 It wasn't glamorous work and his pay came to about $7,000 a year. Those who showed up, many of them immigrants and nearly all of them poor, suffered from hypertension, diabetes and other chronic conditions. They had no other medical care. 
 Then, there was no clinic. Facing the loss of about $110,000 in state funds that covered about a third of its costs, county officials told Dr. Hamilton last fall that it would have to close at the end of 2008. They suggested that four federally supported community health care centers around the county would pick up part of the slack. 
 Dr. Hamilton figured there had to be a way to open his own clinic, where he'd be glad to work at no charge serving the same patients. But as he contacted local charities and community organizations, he kept hearing that it was either not part of their mission or not feasible. Those who were interested ran into liability and malpractice issues. He would have had to pay about $10,000 in insurance just to open up shop.
 He figured he could do it without malpractice insurance -- his clients over all are probably the least litigious demographic in America -- but was strongly advised against that. ''It only takes one avaricious nephew,'' he said. ''The risk is small, but it's not zero.'' 
 Finally, he and Mr. Lynch came up with an idea. A year ago, Mr. Lynch had started a foundation called Doctors Within Borders with the goal of opening a free or low-cost clinic in Westchester County, the name a play on the international medical aid group that won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1999. His group ran into its own roadblocks and still isn't off the ground. But it did provide a legal framework and a way to handle contributions, some of which came in after publicity locally in The Journal-News about Dr. Hamilton's situation. 
 After two months of looking, the clinic still does not have a home, but Dr. Hamilton is hoping to locate it at the United Methodist Church of Spring Valley, which has a food pantry and other services for the poor. He has lined up a second physician willing to donate time as well. 
 It has occurred to both of them that there must be plenty of retired doctors who would be willing to donate their time if liability issues were resolved -- not to build a practice, not to fight with insurance companies, but just to practice medicine for those who need it the most. How many? Who knows?
 ''I have one close associate who when he retired wanted nothing to do with medicine,'' Dr. Hamilton said. ''He wanted to do art, to paint, to go to Timbuktu, anything but medicine. He was fed up with it. But then I approached another doctor and he said yes immediately -- he'd be with me tomorrow if we could get the liability worked out.''
 It's his story, but it's ours as well. Remember that army of volunteers the Obama Era was going to unleash before the economic crisis obliterated all else? It's still out there, but it will take more than just good will to make it happen.
 Whether it's Doctors Within Borders or Builders Within Borders or Teachers Within Borders, the need has never been greater. But unless you can match up the need with those who can respond to it, all the good will in the world gets you exactly nowhere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (76%); CHARITIES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (68%); DIABETES (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (63%); BUDGET CUTS (55%); HYPERTENSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



752 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Russia, Looking Eastward, Opens a Gas Plant to Supply Asian Markets

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russia has profited handsomely from natural gas exports to Europe. Now, after years of false starts and disputes, and mutual suspicions between Moscow and Beijing, Russia is turning its attention to Asia. 
 The moves are prompted by both the promise of a marriage of Russian resources with Asian manufacturing, and Russia's financial desperation as interest from Western banks and investors dries up.
 On Wednesday -- just a day after agreeing to supply oil to China for the next 20 years, in exchange for $25 billion in loan guarantees -- Russia opened its first liquefied natural gas plant to supply fuel to Asia. 
 The plant, built on Sakhalin Island north of Japan and part of the $22 billion Sakhalin 2 development, will greatly expand Russia's natural gas empire. In fact, futures contracts have already been signed to ship Russian gas as far away as the West Coast of the United States. 
 The Russians are hoping Asian governments, with their enormous cash reserves, can compensate for the vast sums Western investors have pulled out of Russia in recent months. China, meanwhile, sees an opportunity to invest cheaply in natural resources it will need when its economy recovers. 
 Sakhalin 2 is the largest Russian energy project supplying Asia to come into production to date. 
 Though partly nationalized by the state energy company Gazprom in 2006, it is still operated by its original developer, the British-Dutch oil giant Royal Dutch Shell. Two Japanese trading houses, Mitsui and Mitsubishi, are also partners. 
 The development links three offshore platforms, hundreds of miles of pipelines and the liquefied natural gas plant along an isolated stretch of Pacific coastline. When it reaches full capacity in 2010, it will chill and ship about 5 percent of the world's liquefied natural gas supply. 
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia and Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan attended the opening Wednesday. 
 Apparently addressing worries in Europe over Russia's use of energy as a political weapon, Mr. Medvedev struck a conciliatory tone, acknowledging that ''mistakes'' were made in Russian energy policy in the past. 
 ''At times we do not fully calculate political risks and practical consequences,'' Mr. Medvedev said, without elaborating, according to the Itar-Tass news service. 
 Still, Russia's energy ambitions in the Asian Pacific are only gathering momentum.
 This week, Russia's national oil company, Rosneft, and national pipeline operator, Transneft, completed a deal for $25 billion in loans from the China Development Bank. In exchange, the Russian companies agreed to provide 300,000 barrels of oil a day to China over 20 years through a trans-Siberian oil pipeline that is scheduled to reach China in 2010. 
 Russia's economic situation has so deteriorated that even typically upbeat financial analysts have been taking on a funereal tone. 
 Chris Weafer, chief analyst for UralSib bank in Moscow, published a research note Wednesday describing the Russian equity markets as ''a highway along which asset valuations and investor sentiments are being driven by the infernal troika of oil, ruble and economy. All three of which have reached the banks of the river Styx and are scrambling to find the appropriate number of kopeks to pay the ferryman.''
 In a measure of Russia's economic troubles, corporations here must repay $117 billion in debt to Western banks this year, in a stark reversal from the inflow of foreign investor money that buoyed Russia's economy in recent years.
 Thus, the $25 billion oil deal with China will offset nearly a quarter of this so-called capital account deficit in 2009. This deficit is one factor pushing down the ruble's value and depressing the Moscow stock exchanges. 
 If the global recession deepens, the Kremlin may be willing to put more on sale, economists say. 
 ''If the situation remains tense in Russia and the world economy, we will see more concessions to China,'' possibly in metals or mining as well as energy, Vladimir I. Tikhomirov, chief economist at UralSib, said in a telephone interview.
 The Sakhalin 2 site, in the works since the early 1990s, has had a turbulent history. In 2006, a Russian environmental regulator threatened to halt work on a pipeline, claiming illegal logging and damage to salmon streams. 
 After a tense few months, Shell and the Japanese trading houses agreed to sell 50 percent plus one share -- a controlling stake -- to Gazprom for $7.45 billion. After the sale, the environmental objections were lifted. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Japanese liquefied natural gas carrier at anchor near the Russian plant on Sakhalin Island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); OAO GAZPROM (67%); CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT LTD (51%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (51%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); OGZD (LSE) (67%); GAZP (RTS) (67%); 1062 (HKSE) (51%); ROSN (RTS) (51%); ROSN (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (67%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); WEST USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ASIA (95%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



753 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: How Much Can One Outfit Do?

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
Thakoon Panichgul, one of the most admired of the new generation of designers bringing spunk to American fashion, opened his fall show with a spare gray wool-felt jacket and ivory skirt that looked as old-fashioned as a Republican cloth coat. Two minutes later, he was sending out models swathed in black bonded-velvet studded with disco-ball mirrors, and then a knit fox cape in glaring orange and green, like the feathers of a parrot.
 The Thakoon collection, a mind warp and yet still pretty great, grabbed your attention foremost because it suggested a designer caught in the midst of competing forces, torn between the reality of safe, wearable clothes and the desire to create something that will look exciting on a runway. 
 This is where fashion is today, as designers, under pressure, try to answer to everyone: customers, critics and a new first lady, who happens to admire new designers, so there had better be a dress or two in her style. Mr. Panichgul had options for all of them.
 What tied the disparate looks together was Mr. Panichgul's desire to tone down the hard edge of the conservative clothes and the party styles, in some cases by stripping away fabrics, treating them roughly. His jewel-tone dresses were slashed at the sides to create ruffles, with sheer insets underneath so that they didn't look so ladylike. 
 Inevitably those dresses invite comparisons to Lanvin, but what keeps Mr. Panichgul's work fresh is his innovative construction. That was seen most clearly in an ivory double-face wool dress inset with black knit bands at the sides, like the waist of a bomber jacket.
 The recession has effectively reminded designers that people are looking for something new from fashion -- a reason to be optimistic. Chris Benz answered that call with a collection that was so happy, it almost seemed medicated. 
 ''The last time we had this feeling of a shady economy was in the late '70s, when uptown women were escaping to the big clubs downtown,'' he said. 
 One could argue that there will be few customers for an electric-red foiled-leather mini-shift or a yellow sheared-mink peacoat, but those customers will appreciate Mr. Benz for giving them a reason to go out. 
 The same could be said for Peter Som, who lost his backing last year as well as a second job designing for Bill Blass (the house closed). While those were disappointing developments, Mr. Som may be better off. Liberated from answering to too many bosses who had steered him toward ladylike clothes, he pulled together about 25 looks that were off the wall. 
 A toile print dress with bright grosgrain and damask borders was topped with a blue broadtail shrug that had iridescent fox shoulders, like Snow White in Technicolor. Even a simple gray shift was jazzed up with point d'esprit lace insets to highlight the darts.
 Matthew Terry, the designer of a new label called Coventry, showed fantastic knits. A severely gorgeous stretch cashmere knit dress with a little shrug -- all one piece, folded over from the neck -- must have required a NASA engineer to execute. 
 Marc Jacobs has thrown the fashion world for a loop by starting his shows on time, and though aggravating, this did result in the unforgettable sighting of a six-foot-tall woman wearing a Chanel jacket and unreasonably tall heels spitting out her gum and sprinting the last block to Mr. Jacobs's presentation of his Marc by Marc Jacobs collection. 
 It was worth it, for Mr. Jacobs put on one of his liveliest shows in a while. This was what is known as a shopping collection, in which the clothes were more important than big ideas about nightclubbing during darker times. He had a lot to offer: darling coats that flounced out at the waist, Punky Brewster tights and a sweater with a bright blooming flower across the belly. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THAKOON: A knit fox bomber over a chiffon turtleneck and wool skirt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES)
MARC BY MARC JACOBS: A sweater with a happy bloom, paired with striped trousers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES)
CHRIS BENZ: A sheared mink peacoat over a leather mini.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PETER SOM: A broadtail coat with a portrait collar and a mandarin collar in fox.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN STURMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FABRICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



754 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Slows Its Growth in a Boston Neighborhood

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Harvard University announced Wednesday that it would slow its expansion into the Allston neighborhood of Boston because of a steep decline in the university's endowment and other economic pressures. 
 The university is reviewing its plans for a four-building, $1 billion science center in Allston, which is across the Charles River from the Cambridge campus. It was scheduled to be completed in 2011. 
 The university plans to finish the complex's foundation and build to ground level, but plans after that are uncertain. 
 ''As we approach the end of the current construction phase,'' the university president, Drew Gilpin Faust, said in a letter to the Harvard community, ''we will examine whether economic conditions are enough improved to allow us to continue construction, or whether to reconfigure the building in ways that yield either new cost savings or new space realization, or whether we need to pause construction.'' 
 The Harvard Stem Cell Institute and other departments that expected to occupy space in the complex will move into offices in Cambridge, Dr. Faust said. 
 The Allston plan, which would expand Harvard's size by 50 percent in 50 years, has long been controversial among neighborhood residents. Some expressed fears Wednesday about the impact of the construction slowdown.
 ''A lot of those buildings have been empty for years now, and one of our concerns as Harvard slows down is that those properties are going to be sitting blighted in our neighborhood,'' said Harry Mattison, an Allston resident. ''It could be 20 years or 50 years.'' 
 The university also announced a 3.5 percent increase in tuition, room, board and fees for the 2009-10 academic year, making the cost $48,868. Officials expect the university's endowment to drop by a total of 30 percent this academic year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); TUITION FEES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



755 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Shows Search Ads With Images and Video

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Yahoo is introducing a new type of search advertising that integrates images and video in paid listings, the company plans to announce Thursday.
 Search advertising typically shows only text advertisements and links. Marketers usually devote part of their online budget to search -- which shows text-only advertisements and links -- and part to display, the banner and box advertisements that show images or video. 
 By introducing video and images, the new offering from Yahoo, called Rich Ads in Search, gives search some of the advantages of banner advertisements. ''It moves the advertising experience from just the blue links, to a more engaging experience for advertisers,'' said Tim Mayer, the vice president for search monetization and distribution at Yahoo.
 Yahoo has been trying to win back paid search advertising from the market leader, Google. Yahoo's market share in paid search has fallen from 13.8 percent in 2004, to 10.5 percent this year, according to the research firm eMarketer. In the same time period, Google's market share has more than doubled, from 32.8 percent in 2004, to 67.7 percent this year.
 Yahoo's strength has been its display advertising, where it sells boxes and banners on its highly trafficked pages. However, as the recession has deepened, many advertisers have shifted money to search, which gives them direct, measurable results.
 Yahoo's fourth-quarter results, reported in January, reflected that change. Search revenue was up 11 percent, and display revenue was down 2 percent.
 Yahoo has been testing its offering with advertisers like the dog-food company Pedigree. A search for ''Pedigree'' on Yahoo turns up a light-blue box at the top of the search-results page holding an image from a Pedigree commercial, which plays when clicked. 
 ''Video is always more powerful than just words on the page,'' said John Anton, the marketing director at Pedigree. ''It's definitely compelling to us to have options like this, where, when you type in 'Pedigree,' you get more than just the words, you get the video itself.''
 Yahoo can also include images -- a search for Staples results in a similar light-blue box with the company's logo on the side. Or, it can include a search box within the light-blue space, asking the visitor to enter his ZIP code, then taking him to the section of the advertiser's Web site that lists bank branches or car dealerships near him, for example. 
 ''What the search results look like is a very different experience with rich ads in search versus the text link,'' said Joanne Bradford, Yahoo's senior vice president for revenue and market development in the United States. ''There is consistency to the experience, which all advertisers want, and were unable to get until this point.''
 Yahoo is charging a monthly fee for the service, versus the auction-based pricing of search advertising, which Mr. Mayer said Yahoo might use in the future. For now, it is allowing only certain large, brand-focused advertisers -- which have existing commercials or logos -- to participate in the program. SoBe, Pepsi and Home Depot were all part of the pilot program.
 According to Yahoo, some advertisers in the pilot program saw an improvement by as much as 25 percent in click-through rates. Karin Blake, the senior search manager at the ad agency Razorfish, who tested the offering for some of her clients, saw slightly less significant results: she said her clients had a 5 to 10 percent increase in click-through rates compared with a regular text ad.
 Still, the new type of search will probably be attractive to advertisers, who pay high prices to develop their commercials and logos, and want to be able to show those wherever they can. 
 ''In a typical search landscape, you can't utilize things like video and images, just because the nature of search listings is really text,'' Ms. Blake said. ''It does allow Yahoo to sort of put together a more robust offering.'' 
 Ms. Blake said that ''right now, there isn't anything in the paid search landscape that either Google or Microsoft is offering'' along these lines. 
 Even as Yahoo updates its search capabilities, it has been under pressure from Wall Street analysts to consider selling its search business to Microsoft. Recently, Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, has repeatedly expressed interest in such a deal.
 Carol A. Bartz, the new chief executive of Yahoo, has not specified her plans for Yahoo's search business.
 ''Maybe we should divest of some things, maybe we ought to focus a little more on the company,'' she said in a conference call last month with investors. ''So, yes, everything's on the table,'' 
 But, she added, ''this is not a company that needs to be pulled apart and left for the chickens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); PET FOODS (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); BANK BRANCHES (50%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (92%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



756 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Defends Steps Taken to Contain Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, vowed on Wednesday to do whatever it took to pull the economy out of its downward spiral, even as he acknowledged that the most recent indicators were ''dismal.''
 Speaking at the National Press Club, the first time that a Fed chairman has taken questions from journalists in a public forum, Mr. Bernanke defended the central bank's efforts and tried to allay concerns that it had been printing money at a dangerous pace.
 ''The Federal Reserve has done, and will continue to do, everything possible within the limits of its authority to assist in restoring our nation to financial stability,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bernanke made it clear that he supported a stimulus package of increased spending and tax cuts, though he declined to comment on the particulars of the measure signed on Tuesday by President Obama or on Mr. Obama's plan to reduce the rising tide of home foreclosures.
 He also warned that the unemployment rate, which reached 7.6 percent last month, would climb to 8 percent ''for sure.'' Indeed, the central bank released a separate report soon afterward showing that Fed policy makers had become considerably more pessimistic about the economy's prospects for this year.
 The ''central tendency'' of forecasts by the presidents of the Federal Reserve's district banks and of governors on the Federal Reserve Board showed that they expected unemployment to reach 8.5 to 8.8 percent in 2009. Last October, policy makers expected unemployment to top out at 7.1 to 7.6 percent.
 Fed policy makers also expect the economy to shrink this year in a range of 0.5 to 1.3 percent, which mainly reflects deepening gloom about the severity of the downturn in the first half of this year. Last October, most Fed officials had predicted that the United States would come out of the recession quickly enough to end this year with a small gain.
 Bleak economic data reflecting a sharpening slide in housing, trade, industrial production, spending and employment rates ''more than offset'' any potential impact from a stimulus plan, the Fed said in the report, which reflected the minutes of its Jan. 27-28 meeting.
 ''Financial markets continued to be strained over all, credit remained unusually tight for both households and businesses, and equity prices had fallen further,'' the report said. 
 For the first time, the Fed also released projections of longer-term growth going beyond its normal one-to-three-year predictions. The committee members said that the American economy was expected to grow by 2.5 to 2.7 percent annually over the next five to six years, and that unemployment rates would hover near 5 percent in the longer term.
 Mr. Bernanke focused his remarks on the Fed's expansion of lending activities since last fall. Using its power to create additional money at will, the central bank has more than doubled its ''balance sheet'' of holdings to about $2 trillion, from $900 billion since last September. The expansion reflects the Fed's effort to thaw the frozen credit markets by pouring money into the financial system through a half-dozen new programs. 
 Acknowledging that some experts had raised fears that the Fed would end up stoking inflation, or losing money on risky loans, Mr. Bernanke argued that the central bank would be able to reverse course fairly swiftly as soon as the crisis abated.
 ''A significant shrinking of the balance sheet can be accomplished relatively quickly,'' he said, adding that most of the Fed's new holdings were short-term loans that had to be repaid within a few months. Most of the loans, he added, entail very little credit risk because they are either routine, short-term loans to financial institutions or currency ''swap agreements'' with foreign central banks.
 ''For the great bulk of Fed lending, the credit risks are extremely low,'' Mr. Bernanke said. About 5 percent of the Fed's lending entails comparatively risky assets, and those are the ones involved in the central bank's rescues of Bear Stearns and the American International Group.
 Mr. Bernanke acknowledged growing concerns about the lack of openness about who is receiving loans from the Fed and exactly what kind of collateral it is holding. He said the Fed had begun a ''thorough review'' of its disclosure policies, which is being carried out by a committee headed by Donald L. Kohn, the central bank's vice chairman.
 ''Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''Increased transparency is the best way to demonstrate that the Federal Reserve's nontraditional policies are well conceived.''
 Though the Fed chairman occasionally became embroiled in the technical intricacies of the central bank's efforts, he seemed comfortable fielding questions -- and deft at avoiding ones he did not want to answer.
 Asked at the end of the session whether he thought the Yankees star Alex Rodriguez should be allowed into the National Baseball Hall of Fame after admitting that he had used steroids, Mr. Bernanke stepped up to the lectern, smiled and said, ''I like baseball.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures,'' the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said Wednesday while taking questions from journalists at the National Press Club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



757 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Reading Khamenei in Tehran

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
 No Iranian puzzle frustrates America and its allies as much as how to reach Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader who sets the country's direction.
 When I asked one veteran Iran hand how old Khamenei is, the answer was: ''Not old enough.'' Years of probing have failed to unearth a conduit to the man with the white beard and outsized glasses whose image, often smiling, dots the billboards of Tehran. The guy's a mystery.
 Solving it lies at the heart of the Iranian challenge facing President Obama because although Khamenei's authority is not absolute, his veto power is. He can no more be bypassed than the Great Recession.
 Khamenei, imprisoned and tortured under the shah, will be 70 in July. He's led Iran for two decades, since the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. His vast authority includes the right to name the heads of the elite Republican Guards, the armed forces, the judiciary and state television. He has indirect power to vet parliamentary candidates. Yet he cloaks his absolutism in the mild garb of the arbiter.
 Under the system know as ''Velayat-e-faqih,'' or the guardianship of the religious jurist, an idea developed by Khomeini to justify the clergy assuming political power, Khamenei is virtually assured of ruling for life. Short of the reappearance of the ''hidden imam,'' not spotted since his disappearance in the 9th century, his earthly deputy presides as custodian of the Islamic Revolution.
 To many Iranians, this setup represents the core betrayal of the revolution, whatever the elements of democracy -- including a June presidential election -- that have emerged around the Constitution's incorporation of the contested idea of a God-given guide.
 To many western officials -- enamored or unhappy by turns with various more colorful figures than Khamenei, and casting around for the real center of power in Iran's labyrinth of the democratic and the deified -- the system is equally maddening.
 But it's not about to change. On the contrary, I'd say the central Iranian political phenomenon of recent years has been the reinforcement of Khamenei. How to engage with Iran begins and ends with him.
 The notorious wealth of his chief rival, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, has tended to reinforce Khamenei's pious image. The favoring of the Revolutionary Guards under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has strengthened an institution beholden to Khamenei. The reformist wave has ebbed.
 More important, his attacks on ''the arrogant powers'' -- read the United States -- have been buttressed by the hubris of the Bush administration. His passionate support for the Palestinian cause has resonated, most recently because of the Gaza debacle. Even his attempts to align the Islamic Revolution with the world's disinherited against U.S. ''economic dominance'' have been comforted by the travails of global capitalism.
 So what does this astute man want? What will he give? Khamenei said last year: ''Undoubtedly, the day the relations with America prove beneficial for the Iranian nation, I will be the first one to approve of that.'' This suggests dogma does not preclude movement.
 Khamenei sees his primary task as safeguarding a revolution whose core values include independence, cultural and scientific self-sufficiency, the global revitalization of Islam as a guiding body of law, and social justice. He believes America demands ''submission and surrender to its hegemony.''
 Given these convictions, the United States must embark on a visionary change of direction. Obama must assure Khamenei that not only has America abandoned the goal of regime change, it sees Iran as a central player in regional stability. That deals with the independence obsession.
 Obama must abandon military threats to Iran's nuclear program in favor of an approach recognizing the country's inevitable mastery of the nuclear fuel cycle, while securing verifiable conditions that ensure such mastery is not diverted to bomb manufacturing. That addresses Iran's intellectual pride (as well as the fact that the neighborhood includes the nuclear-armed powers of Israel, Pakistan and India).
 He must redirect U.S. policy toward Israel-Palestine to make Hamas-Fatah reconciliation a core American objective, recognize that the ''terrorist'' label is an inadequate description of the broad movements that are Hamas and Hezbollah and end the Israel-can-do-no-wrong policy that sabotages a two-state solution. This would allow Khamenei to claim that his demands for Palestinian justice -- as the self-styled leader of the world's Muslims -- have been heard.
 In return, Iran must accept the two-state solution backed by the Arab League (Khamenei has said ''the fate of Palestine should be determined by the Palestinian people''). It must reciprocate American movement on Hamas and Hezbollah by ending its military, but not political, support for them.
 It must back U.S. efforts to stabilize Iraq and Afghanistan. It must improve its poor human-rights record. And, to show goodwill, it must hit the pause button on the centrifuges once high-level talks with America begin.
 Khamenei is not irrational. Social justice is the fourth pillar of the revolution. He has said, ''What Islam pursues is economic development and prosperity for all social strata.'' Yet Iran is a profoundly unequal society. With oil prices at around $35 a barrel, that won't change without creating more wealth in ways that only engagement with the West can bring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); VETO (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); TORTURE (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (92%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



758 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Hewlett-Packard's Profit Declines 13%

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
Just three months ago, Hewlett-Packard appeared largely immune to the global recession that had shaken other major technology companies. Now, it, too, has succumbed to a worsening economy, reporting flat revenue growth for the first three months of the year but forecasting revenue declines for the rest of the year. 
 H.P., based in Palo Alto, Calif., hit Wall Street on Wednesday with a stunning reversal in its outlook for the fiscal year. For the first time in Mark V. Hurd's tenure as chief executive, the company reduced its full-year revenue forecast. The company now expects revenue to fall as much as 5 percent from the $118.4 billion recorded last year. In November, H.P. surprised investors by forecasting that sales this year would rise to as much as $130 billion. 
 ''The swing in the revenue outlook is particularly glaring and suggests that, clearly, their business has slowed materially over the last two months,'' said Shebly Seyrafi, an analyst with Calyon Securities. 
 The quarter also stood out as remarkable because it provided one of the first indications that Mr. Hurd is human after all, one Wall Street analyst said.
 ''I think people will be nervous because H.P. is showing that it's fallible,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, a securities analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''I think going into this quarter there was a belief that they were infallible and would make any numbers they provided.''
 In its most recent quarter, the first of the 2009 fiscal year, revenue fell close to 20 percent year-over-year in three of its major businesses -- personal computers, business hardware and printing. Those types of declines put H.P. in the same league as some of the technology industry's other large companies, like Intel and Cisco Systems, whose customers have been restraining their buying. 
 Nevertheless, H.P posted a 13 percent decrease in earnings, at $1.85 billion, or 75 cents a share, down from $2.13 billion, or 80 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding one-time charges, the company matched the 93 cents a share average earnings forecast by Thomson Reuters.
 Revenue for the period increased 1 percent, to $28.8 billion, from $28.5 billion in the year-earlier period. Analysts expected the company to post revenue of $31.9 billion for the period. 
 While H.P. missed the revenue forecast in the first quarter, ended Jan. 31, and has now lowered its revenue forecast well below analysts' full-year forecast of $126.5 billion, it still expects full-year earnings of $3.76 to $3.88 a share. Analysts forecast $3.77 a share.
 Mr. Hurd maintained that H.P.'s profitability should remain high, thanks to continuing cost-cutting measures, the ability to increase prices and the potential for more lucrative services deals. 
 He sounded less optimistic about the economy, however. ''We just don't want to bank on the fact that the economy is going to get better,'' Mr. Hurd said during a conference call with analysts. ''We just don't see a catalyst to change it.''
 As has been the case throughout Mr. Hurd's four years running H.P., the company's major businesses remained profitable during good times and bad. PC sales slid 19 percent, to $8.8 billion, and operating profit margins fell slightly from a year ago, but while sales of printing and imaging products plummeted 19 percent, to $6 billion, profit margins improved by 3 percentage points. In addition, H.P's first quarter received a significant boost from the acquisition of Electronic Data Systems. H.P.'s services revenue more than doubled to $8.7 billion. 
 Analysts, however, remained dismayed with a large decline in sales of supplies like printer ink. ''That was the most disturbing part,'' said Ashok Kumar, an analyst with Collins Stewart. ''That is the bedrock of their profitability.''
 H.P. plans a number of measures to reduce costs even further in the months to come. Mr. Hurd's base salary will be cut 20 percent, while other executives' salaries will be cut 10 to 15 percent. Other employees will also face up to 5 percent reductions in their pay. H.P. has also curtailed contributions to its retirement plan and stopped a plan that allowed employees to buy H.P. shares at a discount. 
 ''Mark is second to none in terms of expense management,'' Mr. Kumar said. ''It is likely that this will be the last reset. If it is the first of many resets, then H.P. is not what investors make it out to be.''
 Shares of H.P. closed down 26 cents, at $34.08. They fell almost 6 percent in after-hours trading, to $32. 11, after the release of the results.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark V. Hurd, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, will take a 20 percent salary reduction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (69%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (67%); INTEL CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (67%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (67%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



759 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Obama Talks Stimulus, but Itinerary Whispers Politics

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A trend is emerging in President Obama's out-of-the-gate travel itinerary: Top billing has been given to states that turned from red to blue in the fall.
 So far this year, Mr. Obama has visited Ohio, Indiana, Florida, Virginia and Colorado, states that usually voted Republican in presidential elections but that went Democratic in November. Mr. Obama toured a factory that makes wind turbines, listened to the financial worries of voters at town-hall-style meetings and stood atop a dusty road construction site.
 The president deviated from his pattern for the first time on Wednesday, appearing in Arizona to present his plan to help homeowners avoid foreclosure. Arizona, of course, voted for its favorite son Senator John McCain for president in November, but Democrats consider the state a ripe target to bring into their column the next time around.
 Given these early destinations, is the president already eyeing re-election?
 No, his advisers say. But Mr. Obama makes little effort to sidestep the fact that his political fortunes will almost certainly rest on the actions he takes during the early months of his term.
 A wave of applause has greeted the president in city after city. Yet at a stop in Florida last week, he bluntly conceded that his welcome would sour if the $787 billion economic recovery package produced no results three years from now.
 ''I'm not going to make any excuses,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If stuff hasn't worked and people don't feel like I've led the country in the right direction, then you'll have a new president.''
 When he told his audience that an economic recovery would be ''measured in years, not weeks or months,'' he was interrupted by a fan seated near the stage.
 ''You have eight!'' the man said, optimistically referring to the number of years Mr. Obama could serve in the Oval Office.
 ''For our TV audience, somebody said I had eight -- which we're not clear about yet,'' Mr. Obama replied with a smile.
 Presidents seldom predict their political demise. And Mr. Obama has not come close to doing so. But the rush of presidential travel over the last week -- six campaign-style trips in the last 10 days -- suggests that the administration is intent on playing offense from its opening weeks.
 A president, of course, has to travel, and because Mr. Obama has pledged to leave Washington every week, he is bound to occasionally turn up in a battleground state. But back-to-back trips to five newly minted Democratic states drew some notice.
 ''It is a coincidence,'' Dan Pfeiffer, the deputy White House communications director, said in an interview. ''We'll certainly visit states of all shapes and sizes, regardless of who won.''
 The presidential trips are coordinated through a variety of White House offices, involving legislative, political and policy advisers. Each of the visits so far, aides said, has been made with a specific message in mind, rather than the outcome from the 2008 campaign.
 When Mr. Obama went to Bedford Heights, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland, just a few days before his inauguration, he was seeking to highlight investments in alternative energy sources. A trip to Elkhart, Ind., last week was intended to showcase the city's high unemployment rate, 15 percent. And Fort Myers, Fla., was selected because the city is suffering one of the nation's highest foreclosure rates.
 ''We very specifically chose those places because of what they highlight,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said late Tuesday afternoon from Denver, his voice crackling over the noise of Air Force One, which was firing up its engines for the flight to Phoenix.
 Taken together, the destinations offered Mr. Obama an early tour of five states that delivered 80 electoral votes for the Democratic ticket in November.
 While the president has yet to visit North Carolina, another traditionally Republican state that voted Democratic in November, the White House invited The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C., to interview Mr. Obama late last week along with a handful of other newspapers from across the country.
 The News & Observer's front-page headline the next day? ''Obama on big issues.''
 The strategy is to take advantage of the presidential megaphone, aides said, whether it is granting rare White House interviews or scheduling presidential visits. The effort seeks to go beyond Mr. Obama's base of core supporters.
 One day last week, inside the Harborside Events Center in Fort Myers, the familiar campaign anthems had been replaced by patriotic songs as Florida Republicans joined Democrats for a question-and-answer session with Mr. Obama. 
 ''We're happy he's a Democrat,'' said Sarah McClinton, 64, a retired school teacher who is the vice chairwoman of the Lee County Democratic Party and was on hand for the presidential visit. ''But we know we have to share him now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); FORECLOSURE (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



760 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: The Devil Made Me Do It

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Long, long ago there was a television series, called ''Kolchak: The Night Stalker,'' about a newspaperman who spent most of his time tracking down demons of the underworld. Since his editor never believed his stories, Kolchak did not get in the paper much. Today, of course, he would be a blogger and have a wide international following although no real source of income.
 But I digress. The point here is that in one memorable episode, Kolchak was confronted by a politician who sold his soul to the devil in order to win a seat in the State Senate.
 When I first saw this particular program, coyly titled ''The Devil's Platform,'' I was covering a real-life State Legislature in Connecticut. My first thought was that accepting eternal damnation in return for a career as a state senator was a little like swapping your house for a pair of socks. 
 But lately I am beginning to wonder if, in our troubled times, being in a Senate -- any Senate -- actually is hell. Everybody has seen pictures of the state senators in California, held hostage to a spectacular financial fiasco, sleeping at their desks during the long, long hours of deliberations, which revolve around whether Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger can get a wealthy Republican broccoli farmer to vote for his budget.
 And Washington! Imagine you're Harry Reid, the majority leader. Every time something important comes up, you've got to round up 60 votes. And Reid only has 59. One belongs to someone who is apparently doomed to spend the rest of his life in court in Minnesota, arguing about absentee ballot witness registration.
 And another, of course, belongs to Roland Burris, cursed with an inability to come up with a consistent story on whether he tried to raise money for Illinois' rogue governor before said governor forked over a Senate seat. The other senators resent Burris because he is proof that just about anybody blessed with strong persistence and a weak memory can join their club. Reid should also consider the possibility that Burris has been infected by a mind-altering demon that could, at any moment, convince him that he dwells in a reverse reality where all good senators vote against the White House agenda. 
 The U.S. Senate's rules -- like those in California -- wind up leaving the power in the hands of a very few moderate Republicans. Everybody else just sits around reading their mail -- or, in the case of California, napping in the aisles -- while one or two members of the minority party tries to decide whether to let the economy fall off a cliff.
 The good news is that in Washington, the whole world is now run by Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe, both of Maine. True, not what you had in mind when you spent the last year obsessing about the next president. But way better than California, which is facing a series of end-of-times crises that include insolvency, 200,000 imminent layoffs and a halt to all public construction programs. And for weeks, it has all hung on State Senator Abel Maldonado, the above-mentioned broccoli farmer.
 As of last night, Maldonado was holding out for changes in the state election laws that would make it easier for him to get the Republican nomination to run for state controller. (I believe there was once an episode of ''Marcus Welby, M.D.''in which a troubled would-be father refused treatment for sterility on the grounds that it would hurt his chances of being elected controller. Back in the day, it was inspiring what high regard TV scriptwriters had for state government.)
 Maldonado has always denied that his political ambitions had anything to do with his inability to make up his mind about the budget. Nevertheless, one of his ongoing demands has been to eliminate money for new office furniture for his mortal enemy, the current controller, John Chiang.
 The California situation is so dire that everybody in the state appears to have forgotten that their governor is a movie star. Schwarzenegger used to be one of the most famous people on the planet, and now he's spent months begging members of his own party to throw him three lousy votes so he can keep the Department of Motor Vehicles' offices open. When Arnold's ally, the Senate minority leader, revved up the pressure, the Republicans responded by electing a new minority leader.
 On the plus side, all those arguments about whether the Constitution should be amended so people born outside the United States could run for president can be put on the back burner.
 If the nation's only action-hero governor is at a loss, clearly new powers are needed. Look up that ''Night Stalker'' episode on the Web and you will learn that the demon soul-selling senator (Tom Skerritt) got ''the ability to assume the form of an indestructible black mastiff, and destroy his enemies both within his own party and opposing him.''
 I wonder if Harry Reid has heard about this. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); BALLOTS (65%)

PERSON: ROLAND BURRIS (75%); HARRY REID (75%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (55%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



761 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: As Others Fled Venezuela, Bank Saw a Golden Opportunity

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO. 
Sandra La Fuente P. and Maria Eugenia Diaz contributed reporting. Dick Koster contributed reporting from Panama.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
In 2005, foreign investors were growing nervous about Venezuela as President Hugo Chavez began asserting greater control of the economy, but Stanford Group decided it was time to put down stakes. 
 Oil prices, after all, were climbing, even as Mr. Chavez was starting to nationalize assets like cattle estates, before moving on to oil projects and telephone and electricity companies. Venezuelans flush with wealth from soaring oil prices -- as well as those with other fortunes -- were seeking ways to shift their money offshore.
 In Stanford International, a part of the group whose main base was in Antigua, they found an alluring vehicle. 
 By 2007, the group, run by the Texas financier Robert Allen Stanford, had moved into a glittering new headquarters building in the heart of El Rosal, the city's financial district, in a rare display of confidence in Venezuela's economy at a time when companies in an array of industries were cutting their exposure to the country. 
 Stanford expanded its operations nationwide, luring clients in provincial cities like Maracaibo and Puerto Ordaz, and amassed an impressive list estimated at more than 10,000 clients. This country's banking regulator estimates that Venezuelans placed about $2.5 billion into Stanford International. 
 ''They had this beautiful new building, and clients of mine would come in and tell us they were transferring their assets to Stanford because they were promised returns of 14 percent,'' said Russell M. Dallen Jr., who ran Oppenheimer's operations in Caracas before going to BBO, a Venezuelan investment bank, where he oversees capital markets activities. 
 On Wednesday, a day after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Stanford of orchestrating an $8 billion international fraud, Venezuelans joined hundreds of investors and depositors lined up at Stanford's offices in Latin America and the Caribbean to salvage what they could. 
 And while the anxiety is palpable in Antigua -- where some clients arrived by private jet, only to find that assets in the bank were frozen, according to The Associated Press -- the greatest flurry of activity appears to be unfolding in the rest of Latin America, where the impact of Stanford International's presence is expected to ripple through several economies. 
 Edgar Hernandez Behrens, Venezuela's banking regulator, sought to calm investors, declaring that the bank was essentially healthy. He said that Stanford's small retail banking operation was sound, even as clients expressed alarm about investments with the firm locally and offshore.
 While the retail bank -- which started operations here in 2005 -- was technically separate from the other unit, in fact clients often moved between the two, investors and bankers here said.
 ''When Venezuelan sources say nothing is wrong,'' said Gustavo Martinez, an insurance broker standing outside the Caracas offices waiting to withdraw funds, ''it means that something is wrong.'' He declined to say how much he had invested with Stanford, explaining that the money had to cover his company's payroll and that he would find out the amount when he tried to withdraw it. 
 In Panama, the banking regulator took over a local affiliate of the Stanford Financial Group after a run on the bank. 
 Rocio Fernandez, a spokeswoman for Stanford in Caracas, said the company was trying to soothe investor concerns. 
 But independent banking consultants said Stanford mainly tempted clients with the promise of outsize returns that in fact created risk with two sister companies taking in clients. Francisco J. Faraco, an economist who specializes in the Venezuelan banking system, said Stanford had done brisk business in the last two years by luring Venezuelan depositors with dollar-denominated certificates of deposits from Antigua. 
 By putting their money in such securities, Venezuelan investors are believed to have both contributed to the capital flight that has weakened the local currency -- the bolivar -- and profited from it, transferring hard currency back to Venezuela on the black market to acquire some goods denominated at the official exchange rate. 
 Mr. Faraco estimated that as much as 30 percent of Stanford International Bank's $8 billion in reported assets last year came from Venezuelans. 
 It was the second time in five months that Stanford was embroiled in intrigue in Venezuela. In late October, agents with the Military Intelligence Directorate carried out a raid on Stanford's headquarters here. In statements to state television, government officials said the raid was related to suspicions of espionage by three Stanford employees. 
 They also claimed to be searching for information on offshore accounts held by Manuel Rosales, a prominent opposition politician who ran against Mr. Chavez for the presidency in 2006. Mr. Rosales is currently the mayor of Maracaibo, Venezuela's second-largest city. 
 ''They were seeking information on some former employees of the bank who were under investigation in an espionage case here in Venezuela,'' said Ms. Hernandez, the Stanford spokeswoman. ''The case did not advance.''
 Stanford has also previously drawn the gaze of law enforcement officials investigating money-laundering activity in the region.
 As for Stanford's operations in Venezuela, shortly after the construction of its new headquarters here, the company late last year sold the building to Aserca, a Venezuelan airline. Stanford had only occupied the ground floor after moving in 2007. After that, it had trouble filling the other floors. Today, Stanford remains in the building as a tenant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some people are anxious in Antigua as the United States investigates one of the country's most prominent companies, the Stanford Group, which is accused of running an $8 billion fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRES LEIGHTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Investors in Mexico City wait at a Stanford International Bank branch, affiliated with the company in Texas and Antigua whose high-yielding certificates of deposit are under investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); BANKING LAW (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (88%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



762 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: A Lizard's New Message of Reassurance

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR years, prosaic consumer products sought to puff up their appeal by boasting they contained ''secret'' ingredients that improved their performance. Colgate toothpaste had Gardol, for instance, while Dial soap had AT-7 and Certs breath mints had Retsyn.
 Now, confronting consumer anxiety over the economy, the giant insurer Geico is for the first time rolling out a secret ingredient of its own: Warren E. Buffett. The financier controls Berkshire Hathaway, the company that has owned Geico for more than a decade.
 Mr. Buffett is mentioned, along with Berkshire Hathaway, in a campaign for Geico that offers the brand's familiar gecko in a businesslike vein. The campaign -- running along with the company's regular ads -- is by the longtime Geico agency, the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 In advertisements appearing in newspapers and magazines, the gecko wears horn-rimmed glasses. ''Presenting a straightforward and serious talk about the nation's third-largest car insurance company,'' the headline on one print ad reads. ''From a spokesman who's not wearing any pants.'' 
 That ad, about halfway down in the text, describes Geico as ''a financially stable company that's here for the long run'' and ''a wholly-owned subsidiary of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc.''
 A second print ad starts off with this headline: ''Warren Buffett and the gecko. They go together like pie and chips.'' (The joke refers to the gecko's persona as a jaunty Cockney.)
 ''Since Mr. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway acquired Geico in 1996,'' the text begins, ''he and the gecko have seen Geico grow to become the third-largest personal auto insurer in the nation.'' (Only State Farm and Allstate are larger.)
 ''Little wonder why,'' it continues, ''Standard & Poor's has consistently awarded Geico an AAA rating for financial strength -- its highest grade.''
 There are three television commercials in the campaign, which started in December. While none of them refer to Berkshire Hathaway or Mr. Buffett, they discuss Geico's size and stability as qualities that mean consumers can trust the company.
 The campaign is among many that have appeared since the financial crisis began in mid-September. Banks, brokerage firms, insurers and other financial institutions are falling all over each other to reassure worried customers on touchy topics like safety, security and strength.
 The Geico ads are ''a sign of our times,'' said Allen P. Adamson, managing director of the New York office of Landor Associates, a brand and corporate identity agency that is part of WPP.
 ''Everyone's cutting prices; everything's on sale,'' Mr. Adamson said, so the regular Geico pitch of using the company to save money on automotive insurance policies ''is no longer differentiating.''
 ''Brands need to go beyond a compelling offer to give customers reassurance they'll be here tomorrow,'' he added -- or, in other words, ''If you have Warren Buffett, use him.''
 According to Ted Ward, vice president for marketing at Geico -- formally, the Government Employees Insurance Company -- in Washington, the campaign was in the works ''before the economy really got terrible.'' As the fall went on, ''we picked up the pace on production,'' he added.
 ''The strategy for this is driven by the need to emphasize to people there's a way to save money without risking anything,'' Mr. Ward said, by ''hitting stability, trust, the right things to be talking about in this environment.''
 ''It becomes a little more interesting that we're a piece of this really, really solid company,'' he added, referring to Berkshire Hathaway. ''There are not many triple-A-rated companies left in the world; it doesn't hurt we're one of them.''
 Steve Bassett, the creative director for the Geico account at Martin, demurred at a suggestion that featuring Mr. Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway in the campaign was the marketing equivalent of Defcon 1. Rather, it is a way to ''deliver a message about stability and reliability,'' he said, that will stand out amid a spate of campaigns from financial institutions.
 ''As you look at all the ads out there that have the same tone, very somber, trying to be reassuring, they all blur together,'' he added.
 Including the gecko in the campaign will also help distinguish it from ads that approach the economy ''in a gloom-and-doom way,'' Mr. Bassett said.
 ''It puts a smile on your face,'' he added, ''which is not such a bad thing right now.''
 The TV commercials are more lighthearted than the print ads. They show the gecko reporting to a Geico executive who is coaching it on a less frivolous approach to wooing customers.
 In one spot, the executive hands the gecko a tiny suit, saying, ''Looking a bit more businesslike might help.''
 In a second spot, the executive seeks to demonstrate how consumers ''want value for their dollar'' by showing the gecko the first dollar he ever earned. Alas, the gecko has spent it in a vending machine, buying a package of crisps (potato chips).
 In a third commercial, which began appearing on Friday, the executive tells the gecko, ''Trust is key when talking about Geico,'' and suggests they take part in a trust exercise: ''I fall backwards and you catch me.''
 The spot ends with the sound of the executive falling to the ground, uncaught, and a plaintive ''Oh, dear'' from the gecko.
 Jonah Disend, chief executive at Redscout, a brand strategy company in New York owned by MDC Partners, praised the campaign's approach.
 ''It's telling you Geico is the real deal,'' Mr. Disend said, ''but still the company you know.''
 Bringing up Geico's status as part of the Buffett empire makes sense, he said, particularly when ''other brands'' -- companies like General Electric, Goldman Sachs and Tiffany, which are selling him debt -- want to be associated with him.
 Now that one critter speaking for an insurance company is addressing economic conditions, what about the others?
 Aflac, known for its quacking duck mascot, is considering creative work ''that would reinforce the fact that Aflac products provide financial protection, which is more important than ever in this economy,'' said Laura Kane, vice president at Aflac in Columbus, Ga.
 ''These ideas may or may not end up as advertisements,'' she added.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary with the Advertising column on Thursday, referring to videos on NYTimes.com about commercials for the auto insurer Geico, described their content incorrectly. As the column correctly reported, Warren E. Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway are mentioned in print advertisements for Geico, not in the commercials.
 The column also described incorrectly one of the commercials, in which an executive plays a trust exercise with Geico's mascot, a gecko, saying, ''I fall backwards and you catch me.'' The executive falls backward silently while the gecko murmurs ''Oh, dear,'' then the spot ends; there is no sound of the executive falling to the ground.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a Geico spot, an executive suggests that the brand's gecko adopt a more ''businesslike'' look.
 A Geico print ad mentions the company's ties to Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (94%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (53%); LANDOR ASSOCIATES (50%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (94%); BRK.A (NYSE) (94%); IPG (NYSE) (83%); ALL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (94%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (89%); ALLEN ADAMSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (56%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



763 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: General Sees Long Term For Afghanistan Buildup

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The top American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. David D. McKiernan, said Wednesday that the heightened troop levels that President Obama ordered for Afghanistan could remain in place for as long as five years.
 General McKiernan, who spoke at a news conference at the Pentagon a day after Mr. Obama ordered 17,000 additional troops to the country, said that the buildup ''is not a temporary force uplift'' and that it was essential to break what he called a stalemate in southern Afghanistan, the epicenter of the Taliban-led insurgency. 
 He said that he could not determine exactly how long the troops would be there, but that the buildup would ''need to be sustained for some period of time,'' and that he was looking at ''the next three to four or five years.'' 
 General McKiernan said the additional troops would get him through the start of the traditional fighting season in the spring and a presidential election scheduled for August, when there is expected to be a surge in violence.
 But he said he would still like 10,000 additional troops in Afghanistan to fulfill a request that neither President Bush nor President Obama had met. 
 Later on Wednesday, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said no decision on additional troops would be made until the administration completed a sweeping policy review now under way. Mr. Gates said that review would determine how long the heightened troop levels in Afghanistan would remain in place.
 The additional troops ordered to Afghanistan by Mr. Obama amount to an increase of nearly 50 percent over the 36,000 American troops already there. About 30,000 other foreign troops are operating there under a NATO-led command.
 Of the new reinforcements, General McKiernan said, ''What this allows us to do is change the dynamics of the security situation, predominantly in southern Afghanistan, where we are, at best, stalemated, and we need additional, persistent security presence in areas that we're not at today.'' He added, ''I have to tell you that 2009 is going to be a tough year.''
 Mr. Gates spoke to reporters before departing for a meeting of NATO defense ministers in Krakow, Poland. He said the decision to sharply increase the American troop presence in Afghanistan came with an expectation that allies would increase their contributions to the effort, in particular to civilian projects to develop the country's economic and political structures. 
 Despite the buildup, General McKiernan said Afghanistan would not be won by military power alone. ''We're not going to run out of people that either international forces or Afghan forces have to kill or capture,'' he said. ''It's going to be ultimately a political solution.''
 General McKiernan, who declared three times during the news conference that ''the insurgency will not win in Afghanistan,'' said that the failed history of the British and the Soviet Union in Afghanistan should not be a predictor of America's future in the country. 
 ''There's always an inclination to relate what we're doing now with previous nations,'' General McKiernan said, adding, ''I think that's a very unhealthy comparison.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ROBERT M GATES (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



764 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Selling Stimulus, Obama Tours Battleground States

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A trend is emerging in President Obama's out-of-the-gate travel itinerary: Top billing has been given to states that turned from red to blue last fall.
 So far this year, Mr. Obama has visited Ohio, Virginia, Indiana, Florida and Colorado. He toured a factory that makes wind turbines, listened to the financial worries of voters at two town-meeting-style events and signed the economic stimulus bill before a cheering crowd.
 Given these early destinations, is the president already eyeing re-election?
 No, his advisers say. But Mr. Obama makes little attempt to sidestep the fact that his political fortunes will almost certainly rest on the actions he takes during the early months of his term.
 Waves of applause have greeted the president in city after city. Yet at a stop in Florida last week, he conceded that his welcome would sour if the $787 billion economic recovery package produced no results three years from now.
 ''I'm not going to make any excuses,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If stuff hasn't worked and people don't feel like I've led the country in the right direction, then you'll have a new president.''
 When he told his audience that an economic recovery would be ''measured in years, not weeks or months,'' he was interrupted by a fan seated near the stage.
 ''You have eight!'' the man said, optimistically referring to the number of years Mr. Obama could serve in the Oval Office.
 ''For our TV audience, somebody said I had eight -- which we're not clear about yet,'' Mr. Obama responded with a smile.
 Presidents seldom predict their political demise, and Mr. Obama has not come close to doing so. But the rush of presidential travel over the last week -- particularly the trips to some of the most competitive states -- suggests that the White House is intent on playing offense from the opening weeks of the administration.
 A president, of course, has to travel somewhere. And because Mr. Obama has pledged to leave Washington every week, he is bound to turn up occasionally in a battleground state. But the back-to-back trips to newly minted Democratic states, all of which voted Republican for years, have drawn notice.
 ''It is a coincidence,'' Dan Pfeiffer, the deputy White House communications director, said in an interview. ''We'll certainly visit states of all shapes and sizes, regardless of who won.''
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama is breaking the pattern by making a trip to a Republican state, appearing in Arizona to present his plan to help homeowners avoid foreclosures. Democrats have long considered Arizona as a target of electoral opportunity, but did not try to compete there last year because home-state Senator John McCain was on the Republican ticket.
 The trip to Arizona early in Mr. Obama's presidency suggests that Democrats are not likely to concede the state and its 10 electoral votes next time. Democrats could benefit from the increase in Hispanic voters there, and it is a reasonably good bet that neither Mr. McCain -- nor any other Arizonan -- will be on the Republican ticket in 2012.
 The presidential trips are coordinated through a variety of White House offices, including legislative, political and policy advisers. Each of the trips so far, aides said, has been made with a specific message in mind, rather than the outcome of the 2008 campaign.
 When Mr. Obama went to Bedford Heights, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland, just a few days before his inauguration, he wanted to showcase investments in alternative energy sources. A trip to Elkhart, Ind., last week was meant to emphasize the city's high unemployment rate, 15 percent. And Fort Myers, Fla., was selected because the city is suffering one of the nation's highest rates of foreclosure.
 ''We very specifically chose those places because of what they highlight,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said in an interview late Tuesday afternoon from Denver, his voice crackling over the noise of Air Force One, which was firing up its engines for the flight to Phoenix.
 Taken together, the destinations offered Mr. Obama an early tour of five states that delivered 80 electoral votes for the Democratic ticket last November.
 While the president has yet to visit North Carolina, another red-to-blue state, the White House invited The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C., to interview Mr. Obama late last week, along with a handful of other newspapers from across the country.
 The front-page headline in the next day's edition? ''Obama on N.C.'s Big Issues.''
 The strategy is to take advantage of the presidential megaphone, aides said, whether by granting rare White House interviews or scheduling presidential visits. The effort is aimed at going beyond keeping Mr. Obama's base of core supporters energized.
 One day last week, inside the Harborside Events Center in Fort Myers, Florida Republicans joined Democrats for a question-and-answer session with the president.
 ''We're happy he's a Democrat,'' said Sarah McClinton, 64, a retired school teacher who is the vice chairwoman of the Lee County Democratic Party. ''But we know we have to share him now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FORECLOSURE (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



765 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Expected to Regulate Carbon Dioxide and Other Heat-Trapping Gases

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to act for the first time to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that scientists blame for the warming of the planet, according to top Obama administration officials.
 The decision, which most likely would play out in stages over a period of months, would have a profound impact on transportation, manufacturing costs and how utilities generate power. It could accelerate the progress of energy and climate change legislation in Congress and form a basis for the United States' negotiating position at United Nations climate talks set for December in Copenhagen.
 The environmental agency is under order from the Supreme Court to make a determination whether carbon dioxide is a pollutant that endangers public health and welfare, an order that the Bush administration essentially ignored despite near-unanimous belief among agency experts that research points inexorably to such a finding.
 Lisa P. Jackson, the new E.P.A. administrator, said in an interview that she had asked her staff to review the latest scientific evidence and prepare the documentation for a so-called endangerment finding. Ms. Jackson said she had not decided to issue such a finding but she pointedly noted that the second anniversary of the Supreme Court decision, Massachusetts v. E.P.A., is April 2, and there is the wide expectation that she will act by then.
 ''We here know how momentous that decision could be,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''We have to lay out a road map.''
 She took a first step on Tuesday when she said that the agency would reconsider a Bush administration decision not to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from new coal-burning power plants. In announcing the reversal, Ms. Jackson suggested that the E.P.A. was considering additional measures to regulate heat-trapping gases. The White House signaled that it fully supported Ms. Jackson's approach, deferring to her to discuss the administration's response to the Supreme Court case. 
 Ben LaBolt, a White House spokesman, also pointed to statements on the subject during the presidential campaign by Heather Zichal, a top adviser on environmental and energy issues.
 Ms. Zichal, who is now deputy to Carol M. Browner, the White House coordinator for climate and energy policy, said last fall that the Bush White House had prevented the E.P.A. from making the endangerment finding ''consistent with its obligations under the recent Supreme Court decision.'' She also said that while Mr. Obama supported Congressional action on climate change, he was also committed to using the regulatory authority of the executive branch to reduce emissions that contribute to global warming.
 Mr. LaBolt said the White House would not interfere with the agency's decision-making process.
 If the environmental agency determines that carbon dioxide is a dangerous pollutant to be regulated under the Clean Air Act, it would set off one of the most extensive regulatory rule makings in history. Ms. Jackson knows that she would be stepping into a minefield of Congressional and industry opposition and said that she was trying to devise a program that allayed these worries.
 ''We are poised to be specific on what we regulate and on what schedule,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''We don't want people to spin that into a doomsday scenario.'' 
 Even some who favor an aggressive approach to climate change said they were wary of the agency's asserting exclusive authority over carbon emissions. They say that the Clean Air Act, now more than 40 years old, was not designed to regulate ubiquitous substances like carbon dioxide. Using the law, they say, would capture carbon emissions from new facilities, but not existing ones, blunting its impact. They also believe that a broader approach that addresses all sectors of the economy and that is fully debated in Congress would be better than a regulatory approach that could drag through the courts for years.
 The finding and proposed regulations would be issued in sequence, with ample opportunity for public comment and not in a sudden burst of regulatory muscle-flexing, Ms. Jackson said. The regulations would work in concert with any legislation and not supplant it, she added. 
 ''What we are likely to see is an interplay of authorities, some new, some existing,'' she said.
 That is not likely to assuage critics, including many Democrats from states dependent on coal-generated electricity and manufacturing jobs, where such regulation could significantly increase costs. Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who has long championed the interests of the auto industry, said that the regulation of carbon dioxide emissions by the E.P.A. would set off a ''glorious mess'' that would resonate throughout the economy.
 Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, warned Ms. Jackson during her January confirmation hearing that she should not undercut Congress's authority by using the agency's regulatory power to address global warming. Mr. Barrasso called the use of the Clean Air Act to regulate carbon ''a disaster waiting to happen.''
 Many environmental advocates, however, said the E.P.A.'s action was long overdue, but added that it was only as a stopgap until Congress passed comprehensive climate change legislation.
 ''It's politically necessary, scientifically necessary and legally necessary,'' said David Bookbinder, chief climate counsel at the Sierra Club, a plaintiff in the Supreme Court case. 
 But, Mr. Bookbinder added, Congressional action is preferable to the agency's acting on its own. ''We are loudly advocating for tailor-made legislation as the best means of addressing carbon emissions,'' he said. ''Trying to address climate change via a series of rule makings from E.P.A. is a distant second best.''
 As Ms. Jackson navigates the complexities of carbon regulation, she will be advised by Lisa Heinzerling, a former law professor at Georgetown who wrote the winning Supreme Court briefs in Massachusetts v. E.P.A. Ms. Heinzerling is now the agency's lead attorney for global warming matters.
 Jeffrey R. Holmstead, the former head of the agency's office of air and radiation, said that a finding of endangerment from emissions of heat-trapping gases did not initiate immediate regulation but started a clock ticking on a process that typically took 18 months to two years.
 ''Potentially, it's a huge mess, not only for E.P.A. but for state regulatory agencies, because the Clean Air Act is second only to the Internal Revenue Code in terms of complexity,'' said Mr. Holmstead, now director of environmental strategies at the law firm Bracewell & Giuliani.
 He said that under the clean air law any source emitting more than 250 tons of a declared pollutant would be subject to regulation, potentially including schools, hospitals, shopping centers, even bakeries, which has prompted some critics to call it the ''Dunkin' Donuts rule.''
 But Mr. Bookbinder and other supporters say the regulations can be written to exempt these potential emitters. Ms. Jackson said that there was no timetable for issuing regulations governing carbon emissions and that her agency would not engage in ''rash decision making.''
 But she also said that the Supreme Court decision obliged her to act.
 ''It places E.P.A. square in the center of the discussion on climate and energy,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''People are waiting.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: LISA P JACKSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); CAROL BROWNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



766 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: States Face Tough Decisions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The economic stimulus plan that President Obama signed into law this week will give much-needed relief to the nation's cash-starved states, but not enough to avert the need for spending cuts or tax increases, according to a report being released Thursday. 
 The new law will give states more than $150 billion over the next two and half years that they can use to help balance their budgets -- but even under optimistic assumptions about the length of the recession, the states will probably continue to face large budget gaps once that temporary federal aid stops flowing, according to the report, by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York. 
 At least 46 states are facing budget shortfalls, and many governors are being pressured to put off unpopular spending cuts or tax increases by interest groups who cite the large sums of federal aid that are on the way. 
 ''States should use the breathing room provided by the stimulus package to mute and spread out spending cuts and/or tax increases they will need to make, to restructure programs and to allow for orderly decision making,'' said the report, which was written by Donald J. Boyd, a senior fellow at the institute, which studies fiscal trends in all 50 states.
 In California, which is laying off some workers and putting others on unpaid furloughs, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is having trouble persuading his fellow Republicans in the Legislature to support revenue increases. In New York, health advocates have urged Gov. David A. Paterson to abandon some of his proposed health cuts, citing the federal aid. 
 The report underscored some of the difficulties. Federal tax cuts risk being eroded by state and local tax increases, and new federal spending to pump money into the economy risks being offset to some degree by spending cuts at the state and local level. 
 The report concluded that it was unlikely that the economy would recover soon enough, or strongly enough, to help states get their budgets back into balance by the time most of the stimulus aid stops flowing. 
 The report looked at two models for how the recession could play out. Under the more optimistic assumption that the recession will roughly follow the pattern of the 1990 fiscal crisis, it found that states would still face gaps of $70 billion when the stimulus aid ends. 
 Under the more pessimistic assumption -- that there would be record declines in income tax revenues, and steeper declines in sales tax collections -- the report found that states could face gaps of more than $100 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); INCOME TAX (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



767 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: City Will Help Retrain Laid-Off Wall Streeters

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Just as Michigan is scrambling to retrain laid-off auto workers, New York City officials have come up with a plan to find new work for the unemployed from one of its core industries: financial services. 
 Under a program unveiled on Wednesday by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the city wants to invest $45 million in government money to retrain investment bankers, traders and others who have lost jobs on Wall Street, as well as provide seed capital and office space for new businesses those laid-off bankers might create.
 The plan is intended to stem a potential exodus of banking professionals from the city during the restructuring of the financial services industry, which has been the city's economic engine for decades, and to speed the industry's recovery, which will take at least several years, officials said.
 City officials also plan to try to lure big banks and financial companies from Asia and elsewhere to set up operations in New York, filling some of the void created by the implosion of large American firms like Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns. They hope the federal and state governments will let them use $30 million in federal money to attract those companies and other financial firms to Lower Manhattan.
 Mr. Bloomberg said that he could not predict how the financial services business would bounce back, but he said he was confident that it eventually would.
 ''We can be certain that cities around the world will compete for the jobs that the next revival of the financial services industry will bring,'' he said. ''The time to begin winning that competition is right now. A big part of that is encouraging innovation and holding onto the talented people who will make it happen.''
 To head off criticism that the city is providing assistance to people who were paid large sums to work in a business whose excesses caused a global financial crisis, the mayor said that ''these job losses affect people in a wide range of professions and income levels.'' 
 It is unclear how much of the damage to Wall Street can be repaired with such a small investment by the city. Mr. Bloomberg's own company, Bloomberg L.P., may be a model of the type of business the program could spawn, but he started out with $10 million of severance he had received when he was fired from his job at Salomon Brothers. On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg recounted how he created his company in a rented 10-foot-by-10-foot room. He received no help from the city, but he said that was no reason not to help other entrepreneurs now.
 Though some economists have argued that the city should be weaned off its dependence on Wall Street, others believe that the city must try to salvage what it can. In 2007, financial services provided about one third of all the compensation paid in the city.
 ''We still want these guys to find other jobs,'' said Thomas Philippon, a professor of finance at the Stern School of Business at New York University. ''You want this human capital employed somewhere, maybe not on Wall Street.'' 
 The mayor announced the 11-part program at a building at 160 Varick Street that will house an incubator for start-up companies that might employ laid-off professionals. Trinity Real Estate donated the space for three years and the Polytechnic Institute of New York University will select the entrepreneurs who will occupy the space, beginning in April. A second business incubator is scheduled to open in Lower Manhattan later in the year, said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 The agency plans to put $3 million into funds to make small investments in start-up companies, Mr. Pinsky said. He said that he hoped to attract twice as much money from private investors and that $9 million would be enough to help start hundreds of new businesses.
 All told, city officials plan to spend about $15 million on the program, in addition to the $30 million of federal money. They estimate that over 10 years, it could stimulate the creation of at least 25,000 jobs and contribute $750 million to the local economy, but Mr. Bloomberg referred to those projections as a ''guess.'' 
 The plan underscores the Bloomberg administration's growing belief that Wall Street will play a much smaller role in the city's economy for years to come, and perhaps forever. City officials now expect that the city will lose 65,000 jobs in financial services during this recession and that it will take several years to recover a significant portion of them.
 One of the biggest concerns is the shrinkage of the capital markets subsector, which contributed much of the profits the big banks reported during the last boom. Capital markets, which New York dominated, includes the selling and trading of stocks and debt, like the subprime mortgages that fueled the housing bubble.
 City officials expect the number of jobs in capital markets to fall to about 100,000 this year from 131,000 in 2007. More important, they expect the city to gain back only about 4,000 of those high-paying jobs over the next five years. 
 ''We have a substantial number of very talented people coming out of Wall Street,'' Mr. Pinsky said. ''Where do these people go? Do they stay in New York or go elsewhere?''
 City officials admit that those people may feel less of a need to be in New York after this crisis. To counteract that notion, city officials are concentrating on retaining and developing New York's financial infrastructure, like the New York Mercantile Exchange, and trying to rally the financial community around the idea of New York as a hothouse for entrepreneurs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg outlining initiatives to retrain financial services workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); CITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



768 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Kansan Seen As Top Choice In Health Post

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, an early Obama ally with a record of working across party lines, is emerging as the president's top choice for secretary of health and human services, advisers said Wednesday.
 Should she be nominated, Ms. Sebelius would bring eight years of experience as her state's insurance commissioner as well as six years as a governor running a state Medicaid program. 
 But with President Obama about to begin a drive to expand health coverage, an issue on which the two parties have deep ideological divisions, her strongest asset in the view of the White House may be her record of navigating partisan politics as a Democrat in one of the country's most Republican states.
 Ms. Sebelius resolved a state budget crisis on Tuesday and plans to be in Washington from Saturday through Tuesday for a meeting of the National Governors' Association. 
 Asked about the health and human services job, her spokeswoman, Beth Martino, said the governor was ''focused on the economic challenges currently facing Kansas, including our state budget and the impacts of the federal stimulus package.''
 Mr. Obama's first pick for the job, former Senator Tom Daschle, withdrew over his failure to pay $128,000 in taxes until nominated, provoking a storm of criticism and a presidential mea culpa.
 With his economic recovery plan signed into law, Mr. Obama plans to turn his attention more to health care next week with a fiscal blueprint that will begin to advance his ideas about covering the uninsured, advisers said. He may also make health care a theme of his prime-time address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night, they said.
 It remained unclear whether the White House would finish vetting Ms. Sebelius in time to nominate her by next week. Advisers described her as ''the leading candidate,'' although they said other names were still in discussion and emphasized that no final decision had been made.
 After the troubles with Mr. Daschle and other nominees, the White House has intensified its vetting to make sure it thoroughly scrubs its choices before Mr. Obama signs off. 
 Ms. Sebelius's family and her administration have both been notably bipartisan. Her father was a Democratic governor of Ohio and her father-in-law was a longtime Republican member of Congress from Kansas. She won her first term with a former Republican businessman as her running mate and a second term with the former Republican state party chairman on her ticket.
 Ms. Sebelius became an early supporter of Mr. Obama by endorsing him in January 2008 and was mentioned as a possible vice-presidential nominee. After the election, her name was floated for a variety of possible jobs, including secretary of labor, agriculture or education.
 If she becomes health secretary, she will be the fourth woman in the 15-member cabinet, overseeing 65,000 employees and a $700 billion budget. But she is unlikely to also wear the second hat that Mr. Daschle negotiated for himself as White House health czar, a position that could be influential in setting health care policy. 
 Administration officials said that was a special arrangement for Mr. Daschle, adding that they were still considering what to do about that job.
 Should Ms. Sebelius get the cabinet post, she would be replaced as governor by Lt. Gov. Mark Parkinson, the former Republican chairman who switched to the Democratic Party when he ran with Ms. Sebelius in 2006. Mr. Parkinson has said he will not run for governor in 2010.
 As Kansas insurance commissioner, Ms. Sebelius helped draft a proposed national bill of rights for patients and blocked the sale of Blue Cross and Blue Shield to an out-of-state company because it would have raised premiums. She served as president of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and often testified before Congress.
 One issue that could draw attention is her stance on abortion. A Roman Catholic who says abortion is wrong, Ms. Sebelius vetoed a bill requiring clinics to report information on why a late-term abortion was performed, drawing the condemnation of the archbishop of Kansas City, Kan.
 Health advocates welcomed her candidacy.
 ''All signs indicate that she would be a terrific choice,'' said Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California and chairman of a major health subcommittee. Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a liberal-leaning consumer group, said Ms. Sebelius ''knows health care as well as any governor in the United States.''
 A trade group for insurers agreed. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, said Ms. Sebelius would be ''a very smart choice'' for health secretary.
 ''She has a good intellect, a big heart and tremendous expertise,'' Ms. Ignagni said. ''As a blue governor in a red state, she also has lots of experience working across the political aisle.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Kathleen Sebelius was an early Obama supporter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MEDICAID (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TOM DASCHLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



769 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'s Chief Declines His Bonus

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The General Electric Company said on Wednesday that its chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, had declined his 2008 bonus as the company's share price dropped amid deteriorating economic conditions.
 G.E., which is based in Fairfield, Conn., and makes everything from locomotives to household appliances, said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that Mr. Immelt would also forgo his $11.7 million long-term performance award. The actions amount to a 64 percent reduction in Mr. Immelt's cash compensation compared with a year ago.
 The company said it accepted Mr. Immelt's offer to go without the payments.
 General Electric's shares have fallen 33 percent so far in 2009, and last year lost more than half their value. The stock closed at $10.86 on Wednesday, but traded as high as $59.06 in late 2000.
 Two other executives, the chief financial officer, Keith S. Sherin, and Michael A. Neal, chief executive of GE Capital, received bonuses in 2008 that were 15 percent and 25 percent below their previous-year payments.
 Mr. Sherin and Mr. Neal also both declined half the amount earned under their long-term performance awards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



770 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1780 words

HEADLINE: Enough About Me. Like My Portrait?

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH digital images of Hollywood stars and executives are multiplying faster than they can be viewed, the images that exert the strongest pull on many of them, it seems, are the painted portraits they hang over their sofas. In recent interviews, several portraitists who specialize in painting such clients say they had more commissions last year than ever before. 
 Still, even for those used to being trailed by a crowd of photographers and sized up in every waking moment, living with a portrait can cause a certain amount of angst. What, after all, does hanging a life-size portrait of yourself in your living room or bedroom risk saying to others about the depth of your narcissism? Even in a town famous for ardent self-love, isn't there a real possibility that your portrait will make you the butt of jokes at the Grill? 
 ''It can be a little, how do I say it delicately, egomaniacal to have a big painting of yourself in your living room,'' said Margaret Rose Perenchio, a portraitist and the wife of the billionaire media entrepreneur A. Jerrold Perenchio. She has painted several celebrities, including Salma Hayek, Luciano Pavarotti and Leslie Moonves, the chief executive of the CBS Corporation. But despite a fear of appearing self-important, she added, ''I think they like'' the feeling of owning one. 
 Take Joel Schumacher, the director of ''St. Elmo's Fire'' and ''Batman Forever,'' who has an eight-foot-high portrait of himself that has caused him much disquiet. About 10 years ago, he agreed to be painted by Stephen Douglas, a Los Angeles friend and artist who was creating a series of life-size portraits for a show. 
 The portrait involved no sittings and very little commitment. Mr. Douglas came to Mr. Schumacher's Bel Air house one afternoon and took a series of Polaroids of him in baggy dungarees, his shoulder-length gray hair loose around his neck. Mr. Schumacher did not think much about the portrait after that.
 But several months later, Arnon Milchan, the executive producer of Mr. Schumacher's film ''Falling Down,'' delivered the oversize canvas to Mr. Schumacher's home, saying he had seen it in Mr. Douglas's studio and bought it for the director as a gift. 
 Mr. Schumacher was grateful, but he was faced with a quandary. Where was he going to put it? It wasn't as if he did not have enough space. And it wasn't as if he couldn't bear to look at his own face: Mr. Schumacher had modeled for several photographers, including Richard Avedon, Herb Ritts and Bruce Weber, and some of the results line the walls of his home. His bedroom is cluttered with snapshots of himself with the stars of movies he has directed, including Sandra Bullock, Colin Farrell and Jim Carrey. 
 But having so large a painting of himself in his living room made even Mr. Schumacher -- who described himself as ''a total visual hedonist'' -- uncomfortable. ''Everyone would walk in and gasp,'' he said. ''Then they would talk about me later. 'Did you know Joel has a full-length portrait of himself? In his living room? Don't you think that's a little much?' '' Mr. Schumacher winced at the idea, and said, ''I mean, am I not narcissistic enough already?'' 
 So the portrait was dispatched to a walk-in closet in his bedroom -- where, although it is less conspicuous than it might be, it has nevertheless been positioned with great care. Hung against the backdrop of a carved mahogany wall, it is illuminated from above whenever the closet door is open (which it always is, Mr. Schumacher said, when Mr. Milchan comes over). But even hidden away there, it garners nearly as much attention as if it were in the living room. On more than one occasion he has had to shoo a guest out of the closet.
 ''Hollywood wives have a tendency to go into my closet without asking,'' he said. ''They want to see it.''
 Donald Bachardy, the Santa Monica portraitist who is known for his drawings and paintings of celebrities like Jack Nicholson and Bette Davis, said his commissions from celebrities and Hollywood executives have increased in recent years. 
 In 2006, he said, he was flown to France to paint a pregnant Angelina Jolie. He contends that if a subject -- famous or otherwise -- is uncomfortable with a portrait, it is probably not really because of modesty, or concern about appearances, but because the subject has not picked the right painter.
 ''People get it backwards,'' said Mr. Bachardy, 74. ''They think it is the subject that is important. It is not. It's the artist. They could get over that very easily if they chose an artist they really admired.'' 
 Even in this economic downturn, artists say, people's interest in having their portraits painted has not waned. Yet like many things in Hollywood, the choice of painter is often dictated by social connections. Mr. Moonves said he never saw himself as the type to sit for a painted portrait -- ''I probably would be embarrassed,'' he said. Instead he and his wife, the newscaster Julie Chen, had always preferred to be photographed. ''We have pictures of ourselves all over the place,'' he said. 
 But when Ms. Perenchio, a close friend whose husband is the former chairman of Univision, the nation's largest Spanish-language network, asked if she could paint them, they agreed. 
 Ms. Perenchio used a photograph she had taken when the couple were on vacation with her and her husband in Capri (which also serves as a backdrop for her portrait of her friend Shakira Caine, Michael Caine's wife). Later, in New York, she took more photographs of Ms. Chen with full makeup. ''So she'd look glamorous,'' Ms. Perenchio said. ''I didn't feel like she wanted to be completely au naturel.'' Rather than charging Mr. Moonves her usual fee of about $12,000, she asked him to make a donation to a charity. 
 The Moonveses' portrait was unveiled in October when Ms. Perenchio opened her gallery, LA Art House, in West Hollywood. The show also included reproductions of some of her celebrity portraits, including a pregnant Ms. Hayek, Ms. Perenchio's neighbor, holding a rose, and Mr. Pavarotti sitting in Central Park. Ms. Perenchio said she understands that being the subject can be difficult for some people, adding that she has two friends who have posed for Julian Schnabel and keep the portraits in storage.
 But Mr. Moonves took the portrait home, and said he had none of the angst Mr. Schumacher felt. He hung it in the den off the rose garden in his Beverly Hills home and invited friends over to view it. ''We love it,'' he said. ''It looks so right there, in the room where we hang out most.'' 
 Sometimes where a portrait is hung depends not on the subject's comfort with the idea of the painting, but on the specifics of the art itself. In the early 1980s, Stacey Winkler and her husband, Henry Winkler, best known as the Fonz on the 1970s sitcom ''Happy Days,'' commissioned Paul Jasmin, a photographer, to create a portrait of the two -- a 4-by-2-foot photograph taken on the Paramount Studios lot that was then overlaid with sepia-colored paint. After keeping it in the library for years, they moved the portrait to the top of a staircase near the front door, where it now hangs. 
 Upon seeing it moved to the more prominent spot, Ms. Winkler said, her children inquired, ''You haven't turned into those kind of people, have you?'' She added: ''But we never had the feeling we were putting up a big picture of ourselves. We just liked it.''
 Ms. Winkler, though, had a different reaction to a portrait recently painted by a friend, Maxine Smith, who like Ms. Perenchio is the wife of a successful media executive, Gary Smith. Known for using bold blocks of color to depict her subjects, Ms. Smith, working from a photograph, showed Ms. Winkler in a vibrant hot pink one-piece bathing suit, skirt and big hat. 
 Ms. Winkler was less than thrilled, not because she did not appreciate her friend's artistry, but because of what she was wearing. Even though she had approved the use of the photo, Ms. Winkler said she decided that ''I cannot have a picture of myself in a bathing suit in the house -- it felt like so much vanity.''
 Ms. Winkler's husband briefly kept it at his office, but now the portrait, which Ms. Smith gave her as a gift, hangs in a rarely used guest room.
 Ms. Smith, for her part, said friends often ask to have their portraits painted, but it is a tricky business because the desire to please can easily overwhelm the desire to stay true to her artistic vision. ''In truth, it can be a bit awkward,'' she said. 
 Few people have sat for as many portraits as George Hamilton, the movie actor who recently took a turn on the ABC hit ''Dancing With the Stars.'' He has been painted eight times since 1963, he said. His first portrait was destroyed after it blew off the top of his car on a trip to Palm Springs. Two others are in storage. But another from the late 1980s, a 9-by-4-foot canvas by Ralph Wolfe Cowan, a Palm Beach painter, now takes up a good portion of a wall in the living room of his Los Angeles apartment.
 ''I never found it terribly exciting to be painted,'' he said. ''It's like sitting through an M.R.I.'' 
 ''The worst part is if they whistle or, even worse, they listen to their own music,'' he said of the artists for whom he had sat. But ultimately, he said, he liked the results.
 Unlike Mr. Schumacher, Mr. Hamilton, 69, is thrilled to be flamboyantly on display in his home (where a full-size portrait of his mother also hangs). Portraying him as a cross between Heathcliff and a Lothario from the cover of a romance novel, his painting was kept for years in a bar he owned in Beverly Hills. He refused to clean it; cigar smoke darkened the canvas so he now appears, he said, ''as tan as I can be.'' When newcomers visited the bar, he demanded that they toast it.
 ''I had the rare privilege of never drinking alone,'' he said in a recent interview.
 For him, the portrait represents an idea of what Hollywood was in the 1930s and '40s: glamorous, romantic, larger than life and a little outrageous. ''You want the atmosphere to match the mood you want to create'' in a bar or a home, he said. ''You can create fantasy where there would otherwise be stark reality.'' The trick, he added, is to not take oneself too seriously.
 One happy result of having a gigantic portrait of himself is that he can tell, depending on how people react to it, whether they will become friends.
 ''I got the joke before I was the joke,'' he said. ''The people who don't get it, the portrait on the wall, well, they don't respond, on purpose. If the person thinks that is normal, then I think, Eww. We are not going to get along.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POSE: Sitting for a painting can be intimidating, even for celebrities used to the spotlight. Donald Bachardy, above, with his portrait of Natalie Schafer, said picking the right painter is key. Margaret Rose Perenchio has painted Luciano Pavarotti and Salma Hayek, left, and Julie Chen and Leslie Moonves, top left.(PHOTOGRAPHS (EXCEPT PORTRAIT) BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (68%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%)

PERSON: LESLIE MOONVES (73%); A JERROLD PERENCHIO (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



771 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Talk of Nafta on Campaign Trail Is Looming Over Obama's Trip to Canada

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As a candidate, Barack Obama courted votes in the Rust Belt by suggesting he might renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, a pact he criticized as not ''good for America.'' 
 Now Mr. Obama is about to make his first foreign trip as president to Canada, the United States' largest trading partner -- and he is sounding a strikingly different message.
 With Canadians up in arms over ''Buy America'' provisions in President Obama's economic recovery package, and Prime Minister Stephen Harper warning the United States not to back away from its international treaty obligations, Mr. Obama, who will make a day trip to Ottawa on Thursday, is no longer emphasizing the idea of reopening Nafta. 
 Instead, he and his senior advisers are talking up the booming trade relationship between Canada and the United States -- the largest trade partnership in the world, the White House says -- and limiting their Nafta message to revamping side agreements on environmental and labor protections.
 In an interview with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation on Tuesday, the president said there were ''a lot of sensitivities right now'' about renegotiating trade pacts ''because of the huge decline in world trade.'' As he tries to right the struggling American economy, Mr. Obama pledged to do so in a way that would enhance, rather than suppress, trade between the two nations.
 ''It's not in anybody's interest to see that trade diminish,'' he said.
 Trade is an issue that has long bedeviled Democrats, and this is especially so for Mr. Obama. Trade has split the party along regional and economic lines, pitting those who see a globalized economy as inevitable and productive against those in economically depressed areas of the nation, like Ohio and Michigan, who see the price of free trade, in lost jobs and declining wages, as simply too high for the American worker to bear.
 The last Democratic president, Bill Clinton, fought hard to pass Nafta, and made many in his party uncomfortable -- including, eventually, his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who like Mr. Obama talked of reopening the pact when she was running for president.
 Now that Mr. Obama is in the White House, he is confronting a climate that makes free trade an even tougher sell -- mounting job losses, an economy in deep recession and fresh isolationist pressure from the Democratic-led Congress. Members of Congress inserted the ''Buy America'' language, requiring public works projects to be built with American-made iron and steel, into the stimulus bill Mr. Obama signed in to law in Denver on Tuesday.
 At the same time, Mr. Obama is confronting arguments that to further restrict trade would strain relations with other nations and further depress an interconnected global economy.
 When Canada and the European Union balked over the ''Buy America'' language, the Obama White House pushed back at Democrats in Congress, demanding that lawmakers soften the requirement with language that says it must be ''applied in a manner consistent with U.S. obligations under international trade agreements.''
 So Mr. Obama is walking a delicate path as he heads to Ottawa.
 ''Canadians in particular are free traders, they're part of the global world,'' said Paul Cellucci, who was ambassador to Canada in the first term of Mr. Obama's predecessor, George W. Bush. ''They would clearly resist efforts to be protectionist. And for a country where one-third of its gross domestic product is exports to the United States, can you blame them?''
 At a briefing with reporters on Tuesday, Denis McDonough, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said Mr. Obama intended to use his visit to ''underscore the importance of what is already a very robust trading relationship'' and to ''look for ways to grow on that as it relates to new and entrepreneurial and innovative technologies on energy and green technology.''
 That is a far cry from the language of Candidate Obama. He said in a Democratic debate last year that the United States should consider leaving Nafta if the agreement could not be renegotiated. And at another point he sharply attacked Mrs. Clinton, his chief Democratic rival, for what he asserted was a shift in her stance on Nafta.
 ''Ten years after Nafta passed, Senator Clinton said it was good for America,'' Mr. Obama told the crowd at that time. ''Well, I don't think Nafta has been good for America -- and I never have.'' 
 Later, the campaign was caught in a flap over reports that a top economic adviser to Mr. Obama, Austan Goolsbee, had tried to play down the candidate's remarks by assuring Canadian officials that they were ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.'' The Obama campaign dismissed the reports as untrue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama made his way to the stage on Wednesday at Dobson High School in Mesa, Ariz., where he announced his plan to stem home foreclosures.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); STEPHEN HARPER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



772 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: In Obama's Boyhood Home, Clinton Hails Indonesia Politics

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia 

 BODY:
Reaching out to the world's most populous Muslim country and the boyhood home of her new boss, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton traveled to Indonesia on Wednesday to pay tribute to its hard-won political freedoms.
 ''Indonesia has experienced a great transformation in the last 10 years,'' she said, referring to the Asian financial crisis of 1998, which led to the ouster of Suharto, its autocratic president, and set Indonesia on the path to becoming a robust democracy.
 ''If you want to know if Islam, democracy, modernity and women's rights can coexist, go to Indonesia,'' she said at a dinner of academics, journalists, environmentalists and women's rights advocates. 
 Mrs. Clinton said her decision to come to Jakarta -- a nearly 7,000-mile detour between stops in Japan and South Korea -- was also motivated by a desire to recognize the importance of Southeast Asia, a region that the Obama administration believes was neglected by the Bush administration.
 To underline that point, she announced that the United States would begin the process of signing on to a treaty with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that would bind it closer to the 10-member group, which includes Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines.
 But Mrs. Clinton harshly criticized another Asean member, Myanmar, noting that the United States was reviewing its policy of economic sanctions against the military junta that runs the country, formerly known as Burma. She professed frustration that the government was seemingly impervious to pressure.
 ''Clearly, the path we have taken in imposing sanctions hasn't influenced the Burmese junta,'' Mrs. Clinton said to reporters after meeting with Indonesia's foreign minister, Hassan Wirajuda. ''Reaching out and trying to engage them hasn't worked either,'' she said.
 Mrs. Clinton did not elaborate on what steps the United States was contemplating. Indonesia, which is also critical of the junta, believes Myanmar's neighbors need to exert more pressure against it, according to Mr. Wirajuda.
 After President Obama's recent, highly visible appeal to the Islamic world in an interview with Al Arabiya, the Dubai-based satellite television station, and similar overtures by Mrs. Clinton, she seemed sensitive about focusing on Muslims at the expense of other religious groups.
 ''There is no pigeonholing; there is no exclusivity,'' she said. ''We are reaching out to the entire world.''
 The United States, Mrs. Clinton said, was seeking a broader partnership with Indonesia, particularly in areas like climate change. Indonesia has become one of the world's largest emitters of greenhouse gases, largely because of its extensive deforestation.
 She announced that the Indonesian government had agreed to negotiations to allow the Peace Corps to return to the country after a 43-year absence. Peace Corps volunteers were forced out of the country in 1965 in the turmoil that culminated in a military coup by General Suharto.
 Mrs. Clinton also praised Jakarta for its fight against Islamic extremism, echoing the annual threat assessment submitted to Congress last week by the director of national intelligence, Dennis C. Blair.
 The report said Indonesia's counterterrorism efforts had led to the jailing of numerous operatives of Jemaah Islamiya, a radical group responsible for the deadly Bali bombing in 2002. While the group still poses a threat, the report said, its abilities have been significantly degraded.
 Mrs. Clinton has asked colleagues whether Indonesia holds lessons for Pakistan, a large, but much less stable Muslim country. The answer is far from clear, given the distinct differences in Pakistani and Javanese culture, and the different role religion plays in the two societies.
 Mrs. Clinton said Indonesia, as one of the Group of 20 nations, had a clear role to play in recovering from the global economic crisis. Mr. Wirajuda said Indonesia still expected to eke out some growth this year, but the government has expressed concern about rising protectionism in foreign markets.
 Indonesia's wrenching experience in the late-1990s -- when its currency plunged and its banks fell into insolvency -- makes it feel especially vulnerable to the threat of cross-border economic contagion.
 Still, Indonesia is in many ways a good-news story -- and never more so than now. At the airport in Jakarta, Mrs. Clinton was serenaded by children from the Besuki school, which Mr. Obama attended as a fourth grader in 1970. She seemed tickled, and swayed in unison with the children.
 ''I've already been asked, over and over again, 'When is he coming?' '' Mrs. Clinton said, with mock exasperation. She suggested that Mr. Obama save the visit for a time when his job was really getting to him and he needed a morale boost.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday in Jakarta, where she pushed for broader relations with Indonesia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAST IRHAM/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WOMEN (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMISSIONS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); DEFORESTATION (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); WRITERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



773 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Foreclosure Plan

 BODY:
The anti-foreclosure plan announced by President Obama on Wednesday is a decisive break from the Bush administration's disastrous protect-the-banks-but-not-the-homeowners policy. The president has promised that it will help as many as nine million American families refinance their mortgages or avoid foreclosure. That's a good start, but given the dire state of the economy, we fear it still may not be enough. 
 For two years, while house prices cratered and mortgage defaults soared, the Bush administration stubbornly refused to compel the mortgage industry to clean up the bad loans that had been made so recklessly; it even refused to give banks any incentives to do so. Some two million families lost their homes to foreclosure. 
 The Obama plan will provide up to $75 billion, mostly from the bank bailout fund, to help lenders and borrowers come to new terms. That could allow up to four million at-risk homeowners stay in their homes. 
 Most of the money will go for incentive payments to encourage lenders to modify troubled loans and for subsidizing lower interest rates to reduce borrowers' monthly payments. (After five years, the interest rate will begin to gradually adjust upward again.) 
 Equally important, Mr. Obama is coupling the incentives to bankers with a big stick -- support for a change in the law that would allow bankrupt homeowners who cannot come to new affordable terms with a lender to have their mortgages modified under court protection. Mr. Bush stubbornly opposed that idea, too. 
 The plan will also provide help for homeowners who may be struggling, but not delinquent, making it easier for them to refinance their loans to lower rates. Loans that are owned or backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- about half of all mortgages -- will be eligible for refinancing even for homeowners who have less than 20 percent equity in their homes. 
 That will allow up to an estimated five million homeowners to trade their current mortgages for loans with lower rates, making repayments easier and possibly heading off future defaults. 
 The truly worrisome part of the Obama plan is that it does not forcefully address the fact that some 13.6 million homeowners -- and counting -- are stuck in mortgages that have balances that are higher than the value of their properties. 
 Reducing the interest rates on the loans may make their mortgages affordable -- for now. But if a family has a setback, like unemployment or illness, even the new lower payment may prove too onerous. Without an equity cushion to fall back on, default and foreclosure may be impossible to avoid. Similarly, if the family has a big expense -- for a new roof or new plumbing -- it would not make sense to plow more money into a home in which they have no equity. In those circumstances, declaring bankruptcy may be a homeowner's only option.
 Mr. Obama must fight for bankruptcy reform legislation that is expansive enough to accommodate borrowers who cannot make payments for reasons beyond their control. It will be a tough fight. The mortgage industry -- which has carefully cultivated friends on both sides of the political aisle -- will press for a bill that makes it as difficult as possible for borrowers to seek bankruptcy protection. Mr. Obama must not back down. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



774 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: A Sinking Feeling in the Inland Empire

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
About all that's left in the Mountain View subdivision in Perris, Calif., is the mountain view. Construction has stopped. There are tidy streets and sidewalks, but the lots above the curb cuts are just dirt. The KB Home sales office is closed. A sign taped to the door directs you down the road to Palomino where homes are still available ''from the mid 100's.''
If you want to grasp the foreclosure crisis in all its ungraspable immensity, you'd have to take in the whole country. But Perris is a good nutshell. It's a town in the Inland Empire -- where Los Angeles's commuter sprawl meets San Diego's. The area once prospered as a citrus wonderland, but lately its economy has been built on bedrooms: empty boxes of stucco and Spanish tile that people filled with dreams of the good life in the Golden West. 
I drove around Perris this month with organizers from the Alliance for Homebuyer Justice, a project of the Laborers' International Union of North America. The union has been organizing construction workers who built the boom and homeowners who bought into it, both of which have been left exposed and helpless by the disaster.
Like other parts of the Sun Belt, the Inland Empire was supposed to be immune to a housing downturn. But the bomb went off here, too. Housing prices in some places have collapsed 60 percent to 70 percent. Unemployment is more than 10 percent.
Perris was essentially a company town for corporate home builders. Now parts are a living foreclosure museum, with subdivisions tracing the staggering arc of boom and bust. Some still gleam. Others lie stained and rotting in the desert sun. And some, like Mountain View, are frozen, half-built: accidental monuments to mass delusion.
The housing meltdown has spawned an epidemic of blame, much of it heaped on homeowners who agreed to loans they shouldn't have. But look closer in places like Perris and you can see how easily greed preyed on hope, how builders, lenders and marketers worked together and used high-pressure sales pitches and impenetrable piles of paperwork to push bad loans on unsuspecting buyers.
One union organizer, Chris Young, showed me mortgage documents for several homeowners who got in over their heads. Like many home buyers in this heavily Latino region, they were given the hard sell in Spanish. They said they were promised affordable, fixed-rate loans, but the buried details in the papers, in English, told another story.
They were stunned to learn that 10 years of payments would go only toward interest, and that impossibly huge balloon payments lurked down the road.
Rosa Valdez said that she found out a year and half after closing on her house that she had signed on for 10 years of paying nothing to principal. Her second piggyback mortgage requires 179 monthly payments of $608.52, followed by one payment on March 1, 2021, of $61,490.69. Laura and Carlos Naranjo's day of reckoning is March 1, 2022, when they will have to write a check for $43,365.78.
Such exotic loans might have worked in a fantasy world of perpetually soaring home prices. But here on earth, a reckoning has come due.
In Riverside, pawnshop shelves are bursting with abandoned construction equipment: reciprocal saws, nail guns and drills. Not far from downtown Perris, with its lovely library and little restaurants, a tour of abandoned, rain-stained stucco houses shows how quickly, and badly, a failed suburb grows old.
Empty houses were marked by plywood and spray-painted graffiti tags. Mr. Young said many banks don't bother with ''For Sale'' signs anymore. Investors have flipped cheap homes into rentals: starter slums. I watched a white pit bull lead two ragged mutts on a feral march through empty yards and driveways.
An agent's flier sent us to 2047 Cherrytree Drive: four bedrooms, two-and-a-half baths, 1,356 square feet. In 2004, it sold for $247,500. A year and a half later, it went for $325,000.
Now it's listed at $98,000.
I left town wondering what the Inland Empire might look like when the disaster passes, when places like Mountain View are finally built -- or bulldozed. After the illusion evaporates, what will remain? What parts are real?
The people, of course, the families with young children who I saw overflowing the Spanish Mass at Corpus Christi Church in Corona. And the orange groves, trees bursting, spilling fruit onto the cold February ground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011



775 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: The Newly Needy Swell Lines at Food Banks

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
MORRISTOWN, N.J. -- Once a crutch for the most needy, food pantries have responded to the deepening recession by opening their doors to what Rosemary Gilmartin, who runs the Interfaith Food Pantry here, described as ''the next layer of people'' -- a rapidly expanding roster of child-care workers, nurse's aides, real estate agents and secretaries facing a financial crisis for the first time.
Demand at food banks across the country increased by 30 percent in 2008 from the previous year, according to a survey by Feeding America, which distributes more than two billion pounds of food every year. And instead of their usual drop in customers after the holidays, many pantries in upscale suburbs this year are seeing the opposite.
Here in Morris County, one of the wealthiest counties in the country, the Interfaith pantry opened for an extra night last week to accommodate the growing crowds. Among the first-time visitors were Cindy Dreeszen and her husband, who both have steady jobs -- his at a movie theater and hers at a government office -- with a combined annual income of about $55,000. 
But with a 17-month-old son, another baby on the way, and, as Ms. Dreeszen put it, ''the cost of everything going up and up,'' the couple showed up in search of free groceries.
''I didn't think we'd even be allowed to come here,'' said Ms. Dreeszen, 41, glancing around at the shelves of fruit, whole-wheat pasta and baby food. ''This is totally something that I never expected to happen, to have to resort to this.''
In Lake Forest, Ill., a wealthy Chicago suburb, a pantry in an Episcopal church that used to attract people from less affluent towns nearby has lately been flooded with people who have lost jobs. In Greenwich, Conn., a pantry organizer reported a ''tremendous'' increase in demand for food since December, with out-of-work landscapers and housekeepers as well as real estate professionals who have not made a sale in months filling the line.
And amid the million-dollar houses of Marin County in California, a pantry at the San Geronimo Valley Community Center last month changed its policy to allow people to stop by once a week instead of every other week, since there are so many new faces in line alongside the regulars. ''We're seeing people who work at banks, for software firms, for marketing firms, and they're all losing their jobs,'' said Dave Cort, the executive director. ''Here we are in big, fancy Marin County, but we have people who are standing in line with their eyes wide open, thinking, 'Oh, my God, I can't believe I'm here.' ''
The demand is not limited to pantries, which distribute groceries from food banks, supermarket surplus and individuals who donate through church or school can drives. The number of food-stamp recipients was up by 17 percent across New York State, and 12 percent in New Jersey, in November from a year before. When a mobile unit of the Essex County welfare office, as part of a pilot program to distribute food-stamp applications in other counties, stopped in Shop-Rite parking lots recently in Morris County, it was swamped.
''If one of our richest counties has people signing up for food stamps who have never signed up before, that indicates the depth of this problem with the lack of food,'' said Kathleen DiChiara, executive director of Community FoodBank of New Jersey. ''It's the canary in the coal mine.''
Experts said that chronically poor people tend to adapt to the periods where money is scarce by asking for support from friends or tapping into social services, but that working-class people who suddenly lose jobs or homes often find themselves at sea, unsure how to navigate the system or ashamed to seek help.
It is those people who, over the last several months, have started arriving in growing numbers at food pantries, which are often the first tentative step for those whose incomes are too high to qualify for government assistance. (Many pantries have a no-questions policy, though they might determine how many bags of groceries a customer can receive by the number of people in the household.)
''These are people who never really had to ask for help before,'' said Brenda Beavers, human services director for the Salvation Army in New Jersey, which dispenses emergency food supplies at 30 pantries throughout the state. ''They were once givers and now they're having to ask for assistance.''
In Morristown, Ms. Gilmartin, who started volunteering at the Interfaith pantry 13 years ago, has watched a stream of new faces pushing shopping carts among the cardboard boxes on metal shelves in a former nursing home. In 2008, the pantry gave away 620,000 pounds of food, a 24 percent increase from 2007; in November, December and January it had a 24 percent increase in customers and a 45 percent increase in food distributed, compared with the same period the previous year.
Along with fresh apples and Nature's Path Organic Soy Plus cereal, Ms. Gilmartin gives children ''Dora the Explorer'' books. In the past few months, she has found herself fielding more inquiries about social service programs like the Earned Income Tax Credit from people who clearly had never before hovered this close to the poverty line.
''They look shellshocked,'' she said. ''I've had people walk back out and say, 'I can't do this.' ''
She recalled one recent visitor, a television sound engineer who lost his house to foreclosure. ''His life just went reee-eeer,'' Ms. Gilmartin said, twirling her finger in a downward circle.
Usually, the pantry distributes food at two sites several mornings a week, including most Saturdays, and on the first and third Wednesday evenings of each month. But this month, Ms. Gilmartin decided to also open on the second Wednesday because she has been having trouble accommodating everyone.
By 5:30 p.m. on that Wednesday, a half-hour before the pantry was to open, a line of nearly two dozen had formed. Once inside, people were escorted individually through the shelves of low-fat mozzarella cheese, dried beans and Pepperidge Farm chocolate chunk cookies, where a few paused -- often reluctantly -- to explain what had brought them.
''A deadbeat husband and a loss of a job,'' said one woman in her 20s, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she did not want her friends to know she had been visiting the pantry.
It was her second visit. The first time, she could barely get out of her car. ''Let me put it this way -- it took me a long time to come here,'' she said as she added a bag of lentils to her cart. ''I felt like a loser. I felt like a total lowlife.''
A woman in her 50s wearing gold earrings and a red Vera Bradley bag over her shoulder said she had recently lost her job and had been struggling to pay her bills. ''I can understand why people would be embarrassed to come here,'' the woman, who gave only her first name, Louise, said as she loaded her groceries into the trunk of a silver Chevy Malibu. ''I guess I am a little embarrassed.''
Joan Verba, 53, said she had been coming up short financially since she quit her job as an accountant after her husband became ill with cancer. When her husband died, leaving her and a 14-year-old son, she put off plans to re-enter the work force.
''The job market is so bad right now,'' she said. ''My son eats 24-7. I just need this to supplement my food bills.''
Her mother, Carol Morrison, stood nearby. ''I'm just here for moral support,'' she said, inspecting the shelves. ''And nosiness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cindy Dreeszen, with her husband, Alex, and son, Matthew, in Morristown, N.J., never figured on searching for free groceries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
In Napa, Calif., Olga Eufracio went to a food pantry for the first time
 she and her husband have struggled to find work lately.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (94%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PASTA & NOODLES (73%); BABY FOODS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); CHILD CARE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011



776 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Why University Museums Matter

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- Cease and desist is the advice I give university administrators toying with thoughts of closing their campus museums and peddling the art, as Brandeis recently threatened to do. Just stop. Period. Bad way to go.
If it helps, consider your museum and its collection in purely materialistic terms, as a big chunk of capital, slowly and fortuitously accumulated. Once spent, it is irrecoverable. Your university can never be that rich in that way again. Or view the art in your care as something that doesn't belong to you. Like any legacy it belongs to the future.
Such thoughts came to mind on a recent visit to campus museums and galleries at Yale University that have exceptional shows this winter. One, devoted to Picasso and writing, is drawn almost entirely from the university's permanent collections. Another, on the role of tea in Japanese culture, is composed primarily of objects on loan from a single Yale alumnus. A third, imported from another university museum, brings together Degas, geology and gorillas to celebrate Charles Darwin's 200th birthday. And they are supplemented by a tidy roundup of contemporary Indian artists. 
All the shows are fairly small. All are, in different ways, beautiful. All are closely researched studies on fascinating subjects we know too little about. Yet each is just a shade too specialized or unglamorous or experimental to find a home in our public art institutions. If it weren't for academic museums, these shows wouldn't happen. And that would be a real loss.
University museums are unlike other museums. They are not intended to be powerhouse displays of masterworks, though some have their share of these. They are, before all else, teaching instruments intended for hands-on use by students and scholars. As such, they often house objects that are considered of second- and third-tier value at auction but that fill out a deep and detailed account of cultural history.
One of the most moving shows of ancient Chinese art I've ever seen was put together in 1993 from just such material by students in a graduate seminar at Columbia University. The Han-period funerary objects from Columbia's holdings were time worn and unrefined. But imaginatively arranged and meticulously annotated, they evoked a picture of a soul adjusting to the pleasures and perils of the afterlife with an immediacy barely hinted at in exhibitions with superior examples of the same objects at the Met.
The august public museum gave us fabulousness. The tucked-away university gallery gave us life: organic, intimate and as fresh as news.
I had the same impression seeing ''Tea Culture of Japan: Chanoyu Past and Present'' at the Yale University Art Gallery. Here the goal is to evoke the look and spirit of an intricately choreographed social convention, the formal serving of tea, that is also the embodiment of a religious philosophy and a national culture.
The curator, Sadako Ohki, working with Yale students, hits all these tangents with superb economy. Using objects from the collection of Peggy and Richard M. Danziger (Yale L.L.B. 1963), she maps out a history of the tea tradition, or Chanoyu, in a few broad strokes. We see it move from competitive flamboyance, embodied in a flower-spattered folding screen, to the Zen-inspired simplicity of rough-and-tumble ceramic bowls, to 21st-century practices that bring digital animated views of nature to classic tea room decor.
The show includes some highly charismatic items, among them a bamboo tea scoop carved by Sen no Rikyu, the 16th-century tea master who codified the ''wabi'' aesthetic of restraint and imperfection that for many still defines Japaneseness. And there is a touch of theater, appropriate to a study of what is, after all, a species of performance art. At the very center of the gallery sits a stagelike portable tea room, which will see active use during the run of the show.
The result is a kind of exhibition-as-essay too rarely encountered even in midsize public museums but regularly produced in universities, where intellectual adventure is privileged over box-office appeal.
A second show at the Yale gallery, ''Picasso and the Allure of Language,'' fits the same description in its investigation of the importance of words -- written, painted, printed, spoken -- in Picasso's art. And the installation is as dense and busy as the one for the tea show is spare, with everything in it, apart from two sculptures, belonging to Yale.
Busyness was, of course, Picasso's default mode, conveyed here in a kind of logomaniacal flow of images intertwined with language. A 1914 collage with the pasted-in visiting cards of Alice B. Toklas and Gertrude Stein hangs near text-seeded Cubist paintings. These are surrounded by prints illustrating the works of Ovid and Aristophanes and others that accompanied, without exactly illustrating, poems by Guillaume Apollinaire, Tristan Tzara and Picasso himself.
The exhibition's curator, Susan Greenberg Fisher, has done well to give particular attention to the 1948 lithographic edition of Pierre Reverdy's ''Song of the Dead,'' to which Picasso contributed calligraphic designs. They are startling things, big and blood red, interventions more than illuminations.
The 1943 painting titled ''First Steps,'' with its Quasimodo of a toddler and squash-faced mother, incorporates language only very indirectly -- studies for it were done on newsprint -- but who cares as long as it's here, great beyond words?
My favorite piece of all, though, is not by Picasso but about him: Gertrude Stein's verse portrait of him, here heard read aloud by the poet on audiotape. Linguistically the poem is a tricky thing of darting, rapping repetitions and percussive rhythms. And Stein's performance is a tour de force of verbal dexterity: a stately but delicate exercise in proto-hip-hop, ending with the famous lines: ''Let me recite what history teaches. History teaches.'' Exhibitions like this one certainly do too.
A few blocks away the Yale School of Art has opened a gallery of its own. And while the space will often be given over to student exhibitions, it is being inaugurated in healthy cosmopolitan fashion with a selection of work by contemporary Indian artists living in Asia and elsewhere.
Called ''Shifting Shapes -- Unstable Signs'' and organized by Robert Storr, dean of the School of Art, and Jaret Vadera, a graduate student, the show is strong, cuts across several media and gives a good sense of how loose and flexible the category of ''Indian art'' is. At the same time it freezes that category into canon. Nearly every name, and even many individual works, seen here will be familiar to anyone who has spent time in Chelsea or at various biennials in the past few years.
Indian art, whatever and wherever it may be, is now a cultural force field of international reach, and it would have been good if it had been taken to little-traveled reaches of that field here. Still, there is some adventure. Brendan Fernandes, Riyas Komu and Abir Karmakar are artists new to me. I'm grateful for the introduction.
Of all the campus exhibitions '' 'Endless Forms': Charles Darwin, Natural Science and the Visual Arts'' at the Yale Center for British Art is the largest and most complex -- sufficiently complex, in fact, to be reserved for extended coverage at a later date. Assembled by the Fitzwilliam Museum at the University of Cambridge in England to coincide with the Darwin bicentennial, it is a mechanism of many interlocking visual and conceptual parts spanning styles and periods and disciplines.
A list of a just few of its components -- maps, fossils, stuffed birds, ethnolographic photographs, impressionist landscapes, chic Parisian hats -- will suggest the range. Art and science, equally speculative endeavors, meet, clash and cross-fertilize, just as they do in that world within the world that is the university and as they sometimes do in university art museums, institutions that are, at their best, equal parts classroom, laboratory, entertainment center and spiritual gym where good ideas are worked out and bad ideas are worked off.
One bad idea, that university museums are expendable commodities, remains alive in our collective system. Despite a lot of hemming and hawing in the face of protest, Brandeis still gives every indication of wanting to close its Rose Art Museum, opening the path to selling its art, as foolhardy as that would be in the present economy.
But at least one good idea seems to be gaining ground. In a bleak economy, when our big public museums threaten to sink under budget-busting excesses, the university museum offers a model for small, intensely researched, collection-based, convention-challenging exhibitions that could get museums through a bumpy present and carry them, lighter and brighter, into the future.
''Tea Culture of Japan: Chanoyu Past and Present'' remains at Yale University Art Gallery, Chapel and York Streets, New Haven, through April 26, and ''Picasso and the Allure of Language'' remains through May 24. ''Shifting Shapes -- Unstable Signs'' is at the Yale School of Art Gallery, 32 Edgewood Avenue, through Feb. 27. '' 'Endless Forms': Charles Darwin, Natural Science and the Visual Arts'' remains at the Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street, through May 3.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Picasso and the Allure of Language,: including ''Dog and Cock'' from 1921, is at the Yale University Art Gallery through May 24.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ESTATE OF PABLO PICASSO/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK) (C25)
 A container from ''Tea Culture of Japan: Chanoyu Past and Present.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY YALE UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY)(pg. C32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (89%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



777 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; SKI REPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Valet? Seat by the Fire? Join the Club

BYLINE: By ALLEN BEST

 BODY:
THE country club has long been an American archetype of upscale social networking, white-glove amenities and, oh, yes, golf. Enter the ski club, in which a growing number of winter resorts are using the club model to attract members who prefer first tracks to tee times at sunrise. Think of them as country clubs with vast stretches of white powder instead of putting greens.
When Andy Unanue began his Colorado ski vacation earlier this month, for example, he drove to a parking garage right next to the lifts at Vail in the heart of the resort village, picked up his freshly sharpened skis and, with just a few more steps, boarded the lift.
Mr. Unanue, who lives in Manhattan, believes the perks provided by the Vail Mountain Club will be well worth the $275,000 membership initiation fee plus annual dues of $6,000. Those amenities include a free breakfast, access to a spa and fitness center and a ski valet. 
''I like the idea of having a ski valet, and just being able to get to the base of the ski mountain, and having everything there,'' said Mr. Unanue, who is 40 and says he manages his family's equity investments. The membership also gives him two lifetime ski passes, he added, which he said he hoped to use for at least 40 more years. And, unlike with a country club, Mr. Unanue doesn't have to worry about his hook or his slice.
Vail Mountain Club, which opened in November, is the newest and most expensive of the ski clubs. The Vail area now has five such private clubs, including one that is not operated by Vail Resorts. Slopeside ski-based clubs are also found at nearby Beaver Creek, and at Telluride, Colo.; Deer Valley, Utah; Northstar, Calif.; and Stratton, Vt.
There are now about 20 such clubs nationwide, ski industry executives say, most of them in the West. That's roughly three times the number that existed 10 years ago. These are slopeside clubs that sit on private land next to or within public ski areas. The clubs reflect resort operators' attempt to accommodate what seemed like an endless stream of the newly rich as well as the recently retired.
Such clubs are typically populated by part-time residents. At Telluride's club, 80 percent of the members are local second-home owners. ''I think so many of the members who are here for just five or six weeks a year, they want to enjoy Telluride to the max,'' said Rachael Shaw Bowers, director of club membership for the Telluride Ski & Golf Club. Her club, where initiation fees are $55,000 to $125,000, tries to fill in the blanks and connect the dots.
Beth Howard, vice president of the Vail and Beaver Creek Clubs for Vail Resorts, says all of the company's eight clubs -- there are four at Beaver Creek (one of them just for golf) -- are sold out and have waiting lists, though those lists aren't quite as long as they once were. When asked if she has seen evidence of the economic downturn, she said, ''We really haven't.''
Members at Vail Mountain Club average 54 years old, Ms. Howard said, and represent a broad range of backgrounds and primary residences. The club has strong representation from Colorado, New York and Florida, but also from China, Britain, Mexico and Italy.
The clubs are also attracting an increasing number of semi-retirees, like Bob Nolan, a former auto industry executive. He spends more than half of each year near Vail in a gated community called Arrowhead, which sits at the base of the Beaver Creek ski area. Much of Mr. Nolan's time there is funneled through the Arrowhead Alpine Club, which has 600 family memberships and a waiting period of about a year for new members.
The Alpine Club has ski lockers, an exercise room, personal trainers available for hire and comfortable settings in front of fireplaces where members can sip their morning coffee while reading the latest local, regional and national newspapers. For many members, the club headquarters serves as a living room.
Mr. Nolan skis 40 days each winter, but the club offers him more than skiing. There are, for example, snowshoe hikes, bicycle trips and the popular wine-and-cheese mixers each Monday night.
Some members also play at Arrowhead's golf course, but golfing is not central to the club -- nor even skiing. Instead, the club serves as a focus for relationships and broader community involvement. The Alpine Club, for example, helps get members involved in Habitat for Humanity home building and highway cleanups.
For those who can afford it, the clubs become a gathering place for people who share interests. ''You don't find people that are hanging onto their battle ribbons or their achievements from the past,'' Mr. Nolan said. ''You know, in corporate America, everybody was always talking about their accomplishments. We are talking about what we are going to do.''
Jerry Jones, a member of the Arrowhead Alpine Club and a ski industry veteran -- he isn't the Jerry Jones who owns the Dallas Cowboys -- agrees about the lack of ego. ''They drop the 'doctor,' and they drop the 'president,' '' he said, ''and they are just John and Suzy, and Jimmy and Sally.''
But Mr. Jones, who in 1956 began working at Sun Valley in Idaho and who, in the 1980s, helped create a club at Beaver Creek, believes that exclusivity is important to members. ''It definitely separates them from the rest of the skiing public,'' he said.
Some people would argue that the clubs, with their pampering and privilege, exemplify what has gone wrong with skiing. But David Corbin, director of planning for Aspen Skiing Company, disagrees. ''I don't think the clubs themselves have fundamentally changed the resorts,'' said Mr. Corbin, who in previous jobs helped create clubs at Vail and Northstar. ''They are part and parcel of that wave of very affluent people that have come to the resorts and these communities in the last 20 years.''
The clubs, he says, quickly build social connections. ''Granted, not everybody can pay to participate,'' he said. ''But among those who can pay to participate, it's a social unifier.''
As evidenced by their profusion at Vail, the clubs are also profitable. Even in a bear economy, Vail Resorts has sold all of the 200 social memberships at its Vail Mountain Club, which include initiation deposits of $150,000. And it has sold 185 memberships that include parking privileges, the kind Mr. Unanue has.
The clubs also funnel customers to Vail's core business, skiing. For example, club members are candidates for ski school lessons, a significant revenue source for the resort. In some clubs, ownership of real estate in the local development is required for membership. In those in which it is not, members are potential buyers of condominiums and other homes, which is often another source of income for operators of ski areas.
Vail Resorts has clubs at only two of its five ski areas so far, but company executives say they are considering them for its other ski areas: Breckenridge and Keystone, also in Colorado, and Heavenly, which is part of the Lake Tahoe resorts on the California-Nevada border.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEMBERS ONLY: The Vail Mountain Club, one of five at the ski area, in Colorado. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIC STOVALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%)

COMPANY: VAIL RESORTS INC (91%); A MANZONI & C SPA (69%); TELLURIDE SKI & GOLF CO (50%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (69%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



778 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Lending Locked, U.S. Tries a Trillion-Dollar Key

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Credit cards, home equity lines, student loans, car financing: none come cheaply or easily in these credit-tight times. The banks, the refrain goes, just will not lend money.
But it is not simply the banks that are the problem. It is also what lies behind them.
Largely hidden from view is a vast financial system that serves as the banker to the banks. And, like many lenders, this system is in deep trouble. The question is how to fix it. 
Most banks no longer hold the loans they make, content to collect interest until the debt comes due. Instead, the loans are bundled into securities that are sold to investors, a process known as securitization.
But the securitization markets broke down last summer after investors suffered steep losses on these investments. So banks and other finance companies can no longer shift loans off their books easily, throttling their ability to lend.
The result has been a drastic contraction of the amount of credit available throughout the economy. By one estimate, as much as $1.9 trillion of lending capacity -- the rough equivalent of half of all the money borrowed by businesses and consumers in 2007, before the recession struck -- has been sucked out of the system.
Banking chiefs, who have come under sharp criticism for not making more loans even as they have accepted billions of taxpayer dollars to prop themselves up, say it is the markets, not the banks, that are squeezing American borrowers.
The Obama administration hopes to jump-start this crucial machinery by effectively subsidizing the profits of big private investment firms in the bond markets. The Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve plan to spend as much as $1 trillion to provide low-cost loans and guarantees to hedge funds and private equity firms that buy securities backed by consumer and business loans.
The Fed is expected to start the first phase of the program, which will provide $200 billion in loans to investors, in early March.
But analysts question whether this approach will be enough to unlock the credit that the economy needs to pull out of a deepening recession. Some worry it may benefit only select investors at taxpayer expense.
The program also does not try to change securitization practices that, many investors say, spread risks throughout the world and destroyed financial institutions. Policy makers acknowledge that for now, fixing credit ratings, reducing conflicts of interest and improving disclosure can wait.
Under the program, the Fed will lend to investors who acquire new securities backed by auto loans, credit card balances, student loans and small-business loans at rates ranging from roughly 1.5 percent to 3 percent.
Depending on the type of security they are borrowing against, investors will be able to borrow 84 percent to 95 percent of the face value of the bonds. Investors would not be liable for any losses beyond the 5 percent to 16 percent equity that they retain in the investment.
In the initial phase, the Treasury will provide $20 billion and the Fed will provide $180 billion. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said last week that the Treasury could increase its commitment to $100 billion to allow the Fed to lend up to $1 trillion.
Investors and economists said that the effort could help restore some lending, but added that it might not be big enough to fully replace all or most of what has been lost, especially if the nation's biggest banks are not restored to health.
''The gap to be made up is huge,'' said Hyun Song Shin, an economist at Princeton who has written extensively about the shadow banking system. ''Ideally, you would like the commercial banking sector to step up and take charge of the train but they are in no position to do that because they are undercapitalized.''
The market for new securities backed by mortgages and other types of loans has collapsed. Last year, investors bought $313.9 billion of these securities, down from $1.6 trillion in 2007 and $2.1 trillion in 2006, according to Dealogic.
Last month, banks issued just $1.6 billion worth of such deals.
Banks and finance companies are holding more loans on their books, but their ability to do so has been eroding as losses rise on their existing assets. Since October, banks' holdings of loans and leases have shrunk by 2 percent, to $7.1 trillion.
In the mortgage market, banks own just one-third of all loans, down from half as recently as 1990.
Investors and bankers say the Treasury program, called the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, could help unclog vital channels of capital, but they add that it is hard to know how big an impact it will have.
For one thing, the Fed will make loans against only triple-A rated securities, not lower-rated bonds, which are first to suffer losses when borrowers default on loans. That will not help banks sell junior bonds, which many investors have shunned because of fears that losses would rise as the economy worsened, said Thomas H. Atteberry, a partner at First Pacific Advisors, an investment firm based in Los Angeles.
''It's probably a step forward but it may only be a baby step forward,'' said Mr. Atteberry, who does not plan to use the TALF.
Jerry Marlatt, a partner at the law firm of Clifford Chance who specializes in securitization, said that lenders using the TALF would be willing to retain more of the risk associated with loans on their own books to get deals done. That should help ensure that lenders make better-quality loans in the future, because they will be liable for most of the losses.
Simon Johnson, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, said many people might take a dim view of the TALF program because it provided government subsidies to investors like hedge funds. Investors who borrow from the Fed could enjoy annual returns of 20 percent or more.
''The TALF,'' he said, ''raises a lot of questions.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Breaking a Barrier to Lending: Banks have come to depend on selling mortgages and other loans to investors like hedge funds and insurance companies. This allows banks to make more loans and earn bigger profits.(Sources: Hyun Song Shin, Princeton University
Dealogic
Treasury
 Federal Reserve)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); BONDS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011



779 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE STORY OF MY LIFE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Male Bonding: It's a Wonderful Friendship

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Now is exactly the time for a small and simple musical to conquer the glitzy behemoth called Broadway. Think of the relief that recession-scorched theater producers -- tired of wasting cash on elaborately decorated chorus lines and dancing scenery -- would feel if they learned that the new recipe for success was nothing more than the following: a short, modest human-interest story, some sentimental songs, a gifted cast of two and an almost naked set.
I am here to report that a musical opened Thursday night at the Booth Theater that possesses all these elements. Unfortunately, it seems unlikely that the commercially savvy will be rushing to copy ''The Story of My Life,'' a two-character portrait of a friendship by Neil Bartram (songs) and Brian Hill (book), starring the appealing team of Will Chase and Malcolm Gets. 
You see, the creators of this production, which is directed by Richard Maltby Jr., have taken their reducing program a little too far. In addition to jettisoning the usual excesses of tourist-trapping extravaganzas, they have tossed away such niceties as originality, credibility, tension and excitement. I don't think it's spoiling anything to tell you that Mr. Gets's character is dead when the show begins. So, for all practical purposes, is ''The Story of My Life.''
Here's the story of ''Story'' (and stop me if you've heard this before). Two little boys grow up as best friends in a small town. One of them, Thomas Weaver (Mr. Chase), leaves for the big city and becomes rich and famous; the other, Alvin Kelby (Mr. Gets), stays home and watches lovingly from the ground as his chum climbs the heights. Long before the script spells it out, we have realized what Thomas has not: that Alvin is his hero and that Thomas can fly higher than an eagle because Alvin is the wind beneath his wings.
Hold on there. That ''wind beneath my wings'' business comes from a song in the movie ''Beaches,'' the 1988 weeper about two female friends, one of whom turns into a selfish success while the other remains a selfless homebody. You can understand my confusion. ''The Story of My Life'' is basically a classic chick flick translated to the stage with a different set of chromosomes.
Not that this in itself is such a terrible idea. Sensitive is this year's macho, or at least it was last year. Even a manly country star like Keith Urban can be heard singing about how a guy just has to cry sometimes. And what better time in America's economic history to point out that success isn't everything?
The problem is that when a show sticks as closely as this one does to the bare bones of a sentimental formula, it needs to adorn those old bones with fresh flesh. ''The Story of My Life'' doesn't try to disguise its cliches. Even the eccentricity the show celebrates -- in the person of Alvin, the misfit motherless son of a bookstore owner -- is utterly conventional.
Told in flashback by Tom, who has returned to his hometown to deliver Alvin's eulogy, the play follows its two characters from their first meeting as eager children to their last as weary grown-ups. The boys are brought together by a shared affinity for ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' the 1946 Capra Christmas classic, and that film remains a touchstone in their friendship. ''Every time a bell rings, an angel gets his wings!'' says Alvin, as he twirls in the snow, in a scene about halfway through the show's 90 minutes.
Tom, who is home from college for the holidays, asks reasonably ''Aren't you a little old for that?'' But soon both men are on the ground creating snow angels, an activity that will eventually inspire one of the homey, whimsical stories that make Tom a best-selling, award-winning writer. If only Tom could admit that Alvin is his muse, the wind beneath his ... oops, been there.
Aside from ''Beaches'' and its ilk, the chief source of inspiration for ''Story'' appears to have been the musical ''Merrily We Roll Along,'' the beloved flop from 1981 by Stephen Sondheim and George Furth about an egotistical showbiz success (memorably played by Mr. Gets in a 1994 Off Broadway revival) who turns his back on his old friends.
Certainly Mr. Bartram's music -- which is pretty but repetitive, registering as a blurred series of intricate vamps -- might be described as sub-Sondheim. And the lyrics of ''Story'' pose, verbatim, a question asked by Mr. Sondheim in ''Merrily'': ''What was the moment?'' or when did life take the turn that brought its characters to their disillusioned adulthoods. Tom, the writer, keeps saying he doesn't know how to answer that self-evident question, which makes you wonder about his bona fides as a sensitive artist.
Mr. Bartram's score has been orchestrated by the wonderful Jonathan Tunick (a frequent Sondheim collaborator) with an unobtrusive elegance that matches Robert Brill's subtly designed black-and-white set. And as directed by Mr. Maltby, Mr. Chase (of ''Lennon'' and ''High Fidelity'') and Mr. Gets (a Tony nominee for ''Amour'') sing and act with winning (and, under the circumstances, merciful) restraint. It is to their infinite credit that even when they're extolling the precious glories of snow angels and a butterfly's wings, you don't feel like punching them in the face.
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
Music and lyrics by Neil Bartram; book by Brian Hill; directed by Richard Maltby Jr.; sets by Robert Brill; costumes by Wade Laboissonniere; lighting by Ken Billington and Paul Toben; sound by Peter Fitzgerald and Carl Casella; projection design by Dustin O'Neill; orchestrations by Jonathan Tunick; music director, David Holcenberg; music coordinator, John Miller; production stage manager, Bess Marie Glorioso; production supervisors, Arthur Siccardi and Patrick Sullivan; associate director, Lisa Shriver; general manager, Leonard Soloway. Presented by Chase Mishkin, Jack M. Dalgleish, Bud Martin and Carole L. Haber, in association with Chunsoo Shin. At the Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6200. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.
WITH: Will Chase (Thomas Weaver), Malcolm Gets (Alvin Kelby), Alex Maizus (Voice of Young Thomas) and Austin McKinnis (Voice of Young Alvin).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Story of My Life, with Malcolm Gets, left, and Will Chase, at the Booth Theater. (C1)
 Malcolm Gets, left, and Will Chase in ''The Story of My Life,'' with songs by Neil Bartram.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



780 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Project Runway At J.F.K. Airport

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The board of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey approved a plan on Thursday to replace the longest runway at Kennedy Airport, Runway 13R-31L. Here's a look, by the numbers: 
440,000 FLIGHTS landed or took off at the airport last year.
14,572 FEET long, Runway 13R-31L is one of the longest commercial runways in the country.
$292.4 MILLION is the price tag for the plan, which includes widening the runway from 150 to 200 feet to accommodate larger aircraft.
FOUR MONTHS is required for the work, which will shut down the runway, which handles about one-third of the airport's flights.
18 INCHES of concrete will be poured -- enough to pave every National Football League field.
40 OR MORE YEARS of use is expected out of the concrete, five times the life of asphalt.
2011 is the scheduled completion date for a larger delay-reduction program starting in June that will add taxiways and holding areas where planes idle before takeoff and new ground radar.
10,485 HOURS of delays are expected to be avoided over the life of the new runway and the delay-reduction improvements.
KEN BELSON TAKING
QUESTIONS
This week on the blog, Cheryl Lynn Greenberg, author of ''Or Does It Explode? Black Harlem in the Great Depression,'' is answering readers' questions about Harlem during the Great Depression. Here is an excerpt:
Q. How did cultural or artistic players from the Harlem Renaissance fare during the Great Depression? Did it bring the black working class and black elite together? Mayorhayden
A. To me, much of the genius of the New Deal's work programs to fight the Depression lay in the fact that they served two important purposes simultaneously: employing the needy and improving the community. The Federal Arts Project did both admirably. It hired famous artists to teach art classes to young people and unemployed adults. Others painted murals on public buildings, and they chose themes that celebrated laborers or African-Americans or the dignity of work.
Out-of-work actors communicated current events to the community, including issues pertaining to race and racism, through ''living newspapers,'' and brought theater to those who could never otherwise have afforded to attend.
Dozens of African-American writers and scholars found employment, writing city guides, collecting and analyzing a variety of data about black communities, gathering stories, interviewing former slaves and producing fiction, plays and essays.
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
AUDIO: Only in New York: If you don't think the census means much for New York State, consider this: Population decreases since 2000, to be measured by next year's census, will cost it at least one Congressional seat.
And what about the 64,000-person question: How did the 2000 census count in New York City miss as many people as live in all of Santa Fe, N.M.?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); WRITERS (87%); CENSUS (86%); RACE & RACISM (86%); APPROVALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); PAINTING (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); THEATER (69%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011



781 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Faster Trains, Maybe, but Still Behind Others in the World

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
It may be the longest train delay in history: more than 40 years after the first bullet trains zipped through Japan, the United States still lacks true high-speed rail. And despite the record $8 billion investment in high-speed rail added at the last minute to the new economic stimulus package, that may not change any time soon.
That money will not be enough to pay for a single bullet train, transportation experts say. And by the time the $8 billion gets divided among the 11 regions across the country that the government has designated as high-speed rail corridors, they say, it is unlikely to do much beyond paying for long-delayed improvements to passenger lines, and making a modest investment in California's plan for a true bullet train. 
In the short term, the money -- inserted at the 11th hour by the White House -- could put people to work improving tracks, crossings and signal systems.
That could help more trains reach speeds of 90 to 110 miles per hour, which is much faster than they currently go. It is much slower, however, than high-speed trains elsewhere, like the 180 m.p.h. of the newest Japanese bullet train. (The Acela trains on the East Coast are capable of 150 m.p.h., but average around half that.)
To some longtime proponents of high-speed rail who have watched with envy as other countries built ever-faster trains, failing to build a world-class high-speed train now would represent a tremendous missed opportunity to lure drivers off choked roads and fliers away from long delays at airports.
''What are we trying to achieve?'' asked Joseph Vranich, a rail expert who wrote ''Supertrains'' (St. Martin's Press, 1991). ''If we really wanted to have high-speed rail in this country, and have it be a great success, then what we would do is concentrate the funds on the New York-Washington corridor, which is the top corridor in the country.''
Mr. Vranich warned that spreading the money around the country could dilute its power to build a true high-speed system, and he predicted that making incremental improvements to the speeds of trains around the country would not be enough to get large numbers of people to stop flying.
Even with full financing, it could take a decade or more to build a bullet train line. The state now closest to building a true high-speed system is California, where voters approved borrowing $9 billion last fall to begin building a train that can go faster than 220 m.p.h.
''The California high-speed rail project is the only genuine pending project,'' said Judge Quentin L. Kopp, the chairman of the California High-Speed Rail Authority.
Mr. Kopp has outlined plans to spend up to $2 billion of the stimulus money by the deadline of 2012 -- one-quarter of the available federal money, but only a small part of the $45 billion the project is expected to cost.
Many other states also have big plans. North Carolina, which is part of the Southeast High-Speed Rail Corridor, will seek some of the stimulus money to speed rail service between Charlotte and Washington. Wisconsin wants to use some of it on a line linking Madison and Chicago, hoping to have trains running up to 110 m.p.h. Officials in Alabama want to be on a faster line connecting Atlanta and New Orleans.
Many rail advocates said that it would make sense to move to higher-speed rail before building true high-speed rail, and that getting the nation's long-neglected rail system into working order could lay the foundation for future high-speed projects.
''You've got to walk before you can run, and we've just been crawling up to now,'' said Ross B. Capon, the president of the National Association of Railroad Passengers, an advocacy group for riders.
Many passenger trains run on tracks owned by freight companies, and they are slowed on long stretches of single track, where trains must pull onto sidings so others can pass.
Federal transportation officials said that they were still drawing up guidelines for how the money would be spent, and cautioned that it was too early to predict what they would do. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told reporters in Washington this week that he believed high-speed rail would be President Obama's transportation priority. Mr. LaHood said the department had recently given the White House a memorandum describing plans for high-speed rail in ''at least six corridors'' across the country.
But people who were excited by that prospect may be surprised to hear that the federal government defines ''high speed'' as much slower than other countries do. A diesel train in the United States that can go 90 m.p.h. is still considered high-speed under the government's definition.
So some projects financed by the bill may simply get intercity passenger rail back to where it was earlier in the 20th century, rather than closer to the futuristic vision of the trains of Europe and Asia, like the magnetic levitation, or maglev, train that whisks passengers from Shanghai to its airport 19 miles away in seven minutes, attaining a speed of 259 m.p.h.
The Acela is the United States' fastest train. But because the tracks it runs on are curvy, and are shared with many other trains, it is only able to reach its top speed of 150 m.p.h. on about 35 miles of track in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Its average speed is 84 m.p.h. between New York and Washington. Still, Amtrak has captured 62 percent of the combined air and rail market between New York and Washington, company officials said.
High-speed rail has a long, tortured history in the United States, going back to 1965, when Congress passed the High-Speed Ground Transportation Act. Since then, it has been proposed by many governors and studied in countless plans, always holding out the promise of catching up with other countries.
Voters in Florida passed a constitutional amendment requiring the state to build a high-speed rail system, only to repeal it a few years later after several prominent businesses, along with Jeb Bush, who was then the governor, complained of its expense.
C. C. Dockery, who sponsored the campaign for the amendment, said in an interview that he and the other members of the Florida High-Speed Rail Authority were planning to meet late this month to discuss how to go about seeking some of the federal money.
''It would be a huge benefit to Florida,'' Mr. Dockery said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The federal stimulus package has a modest investment in California's plan for a bullet train. A conceptual view of high-speed rail on San Francisco Bay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STATE OF CALIFORNIA)
Clockwise from above left, passengers boarding a high-speed train from Shanghai to Hangzhou, China
the high-speed TGV in Bezannes, France
the German ICE high-speed train arriving in Paris
and the 500 series Shinkansen train near Tokyo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
ALAIN JULIEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JAPAN RAILWAY, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 BENOIT TESSIER/REUTERS) CHARTS: Designated High-Speed Rail Corridors. (Source: Federal Railroad Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation) Chart details points in U.S. (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (96%); TRAINS (90%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (77%); APPROVALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (59%); FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (88%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (90%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011



782 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Playing With Chaos

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
Some designers look to hothouse decadents like the Marchesa Casati for their ideas. Some revive the memory of flailing at the Mudd Club in the ancient but ever-popular 1980s. Some are hung up on Babe Paley's chic. For the Brazilian designer Alexandre Herchcovitch it's the tumult of cities that serves as inspiration, particularly that of Sao Paulo, the randomly evolved metropolis he calls home.
''I don't like this thing designers do of putting images up on a board,'' Mr. Herchcovitch said Wednesday before his show in Bryant Park. He was referring to the industry practice of assembling ''mood boards'' to which are tacked swatches, postcards, tear sheets and anything else that suits a seasonal theme or provides a creative jolt. 
''You come into the studio every day and there is the board, and what do you do?'' he asked. ''You copy the board.'' His own approach to assembling a collection is more improvisational.
''I never like to plan too much,'' he said. ''I prefer to look out the window at my city, this place that has grown up in a chaotic way.''
From his studio window, he said, he can see ''10 different types of buildings -- from the 1950s, the 1970s, the 19th century. And I like very much to use that idea to mix several different silhouettes in the clothes.'' Thus a jacket that is seamed and snugly fitted on one side accordions on the other in a series of knife pleats. The approach is a little like making a drawing not by composing an outline and then filling it in but by moving a pencil directly from right to left. The results, while coherent, are suggestive of the urban tumult that energizes him. ''I like to be open, to the city, to my team,'' he said. ''Mine are not the only ideas.''
Despite all that he had heard about the United States economy -- ''The crisis is still just a rumor in Brazil,'' he said -- Mr. Herchcovitch stuck by his decision to show in New York, and he is one of a dwindling number of foreign designers to do so. While it may seem an odd choice, given that his clothes are sold in New York only at Opening Ceremony, there is, for him, only one Fashion Week that plays effectively to global markets: New York.
''When you show here, you're showing for all over the world,'' said Mr. Herchcovitch, whose clothing -- the layered silhouettes of his collection, the sunny though not tropical colors and paillettes laid in patterns like the wavy pavement in Rio, were typical of him -- has a fanatical following in his homeland and in Japan.
Despite the deals designers have been able to strike lately with suppliers, producers and even modeling agencies (his model budget two seasons ago was $90,000; this time he paid just under half that amount), it still costs plenty to mount a show during Fashion Week. A big hunk of Mr. Herchcovitch's $170,000 show budget was underwritten by the Brazilian government. (''Approved by the president,'' he said with pride, referring to President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.) While $100,000 still sounds like a large number for an independent designer, the investment repays itself a hundredfold in publicity, he said.
The New York of the moment may not be at the center of design or apparel production, but it remains the capital of hype and media. In what other place, the designer asked, could someone of relatively low brand-name recognition hope to attract the critical press to his show, and to fill his front row with celebrities like Kanye West and Natasha Bedingfield.
''I'm very optimistic,'' Mr. Herchcovitch said, as any Brazilian might be, given his country's 2008 growth rate.
''We don't have this problem right now, I am happy to say,'' he noted, referring to the recession here. ''But we had it in the past. Things were bad at one time, and my experience is that, eventually, people will consume again. They will want to buy clothes. They will want to get back to their normal way to live.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FACE TIME: Kanye West and Natasha Bedingfield took in the fall show by Alexandre Herchcovitch, below.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT GRIES/GETTY IMAGES FOR IMG
 STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY IMAGES FOR IMG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); CITIES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



783 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: For Rising Japanese Star, Classic Will Be a New Stage

BYLINE: By BRAD LEFTON

 BODY:
NAGO, Japan -- On the first day of spring training here, Yu Darvish christened the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters' 2009 camp by throwing 125 pitches from a bullpen mound. That was 15 more than Carlos Zambrano of the Cubs threw to no-hit the Astros in nine innings last September, so naturally, even in practice-happy Japan, eyebrows were raised.
There was a sense of satisfaction, too, as Darvish's recent effort was taken as a show of his readiness to join Daisuke Matsuzaka in a formidable starting rotation for Japan at the World Baseball Classic, which begins March 5.
Comparisons of Darvish, Japan's 22-year-old domestic star, and Matsuzaka, its veteran one who left for a lucrative contract with the Boston Red Sox two years ago, are certain to swell when the rest of the world gets a glimpse of Darvish's enormous talent. But many here say such talk is already passe. 
''There's no question Darvish is more talented,'' Masato Yoshii, who pitched for the Mets in the late 1990s, said in Japanese.
His claim is based on firsthand experience. Yoshii pitched against Matsuzaka for four seasons after returning to Japan's Pacific League in 2003, and he is in his second season as Darvish's pitching coach with the Fighters.
Yoshii respectfully pointed out that Matsuzaka, 18-3 with a 2.90 earned run average for Boston last season, had demonstrated he could handle the more demanding schedule of pitching every fifth day over a longer season in Major League Baseball. With that said, he offered more insight to distinguish their abilities.
''Darvish has better control than Matsuzaka,'' Yoshii said. ''You'd be hard-pressed to find an example over the course of a season where he got knocked out on walks. He has exceptional control of every pitch known to man except a knuckleball.
''He throws a four-seam and two-seam fastball, a slider that breaks to the side and one that breaks down, a curveball, a changeup, a sinker and a forkball. I'd call his downward-breaking slider a power curve, and it's devastating. It's his secret weapon that's really not a secret to anyone, but they're all still powerless to do anything other than swing and miss at it. That's his sure-fire way of finishing you off when he has to.''
The son of Farsad, an Iranian father, and Ikuyo, a Japanese mother, Darvish was born and raised in Osaka. He has never lived outside his birth country, but he has traveled to Iran and the United States, where his parents met while studying in Florida. He remembers his father pushing him toward soccer as a child, but he found something enchanting about the baseball games he saw on television. When he got his first Little League hit, he was hooked.
His lanky 6-foot-5-inch build and distinctive facial features would be enough to make him stand out anywhere, but in a homogenous land, a family name that sounded like none other gave him unwanted attention growing up.
''Kids used to say stuff all the time about how I was different,'' Darvish said in Japanese, playing down the suggestion that wearing the national team uniform gave him extra satisfaction in light of such teasing. ''It hasn't been an issue since I was little.''
The Fighters selected Darvish in the first round of the 2004 draft as a high schooler. By then, he was known across the country for having pitched a no-hitter in the spring version of a prestigious national high school baseball tournament that March. He earned a bad-boy image later for being suspended from high school for smoking a cigarette, illegal for minors here, and posing nude for a magazine in 2007. His devilish laughter at the mention of those incidents is a hint that rebelliousness still lurks within him.
But lost in the commotion over his defiance off the field and his vast natural athleticism on it is an astounding aptitude for pitching mechanics that those who know him describe with the highest admiration.
His tentaclelike limbs gave way to an exaggerated, sweeping pitching motion when he first turned pro as he tried to wind his long arms and legs through the twists of his delivery. His motion, while inefficient from a physics standpoint, produced impressive baseball results: records of 5-5 with a 3.53 earned run average and 12-5 with a 2.89 E.R.A. in his first two seasons.
But today, he pitches with the more compact movements of a smaller player. That allows him to better maintain his balance, resulting in more force and greater control.
Who carefully coached him through this transformation? Darvish, it turns out, did it himself.
''I'm a big guy, right?'' he said, extending his arms. ''But I began to realize that by actually using my body like a big guy, I couldn't control my pitches the way I wanted to. I could throw the ball hard, but at this level if you're not accurate, it's easy for batters to light you up with home runs. That's when I started concentrating on making my movements more compact. It just seemed to me that smaller movements would produce the kind of pitching I desired.''
Such an understanding of mechanics might not be so stunning from a seasoned professional, but Darvish figured this out over the course of his second and third professional seasons, when he was 19 and 20 years old. He transformed into a more consistent pitcher who threw with greater force and better control in the 2007 season.
Commemorating the change was the Sawamura award -- Japan's equivalent of the Cy Young -- for his 15-5 record, 1.82 E.R.A. and 210 strikeouts that year.
Yoshii became his pitching coach a year later and has marveled at Darvish's ability to grasp how his body's movements affect his pitching performance. In 2008, Darvish went 16-4 with a 1.88 E.R.A. and 208 strikeouts.
''He has this uncanny ability to tweak his mechanics during a game without even watching video,'' Yoshii said. ''You see some savvy veterans do that, but he's 22 and he already has an advanced capacity for instant in-game adjustments. It's as if the video exists in his mind, and he's able to transfer what only he sees there to tweaking the way he uses his body. The best thing you can do as a coach is not interfere with a process he fully understands.''
Darvish will be a free agent for the international market after the 2014 season. But he can ask the Fighters to post him, which would allow major league teams to bid on the chance to negotiate with him. Darvish refuses to discuss the issue, saying that he wants to concentrate on this year.
At a reported $2.9 million a year, he is the Fighters' highest-paid player, and people wonder how much longer the team will be able to afford him. Simple economics suggest that the Fighters, if they consented to the posting, would improve on the record $51 million fee collected by Matsuzaka's former team, the Seibu Lions.
In an effort to keep the Fighters at their spring training location of 32 years in Nago, on the island of Okinawa, the mayor here jokingly suggested he would consider naming a proposed new civic facility Darvish Stadium. Facilities are rarely named after players in midcareer, but with an opening targeted for 2012, only time will tell if Darvish Stadium would be honoring a current great, or memorializing one who got his start here and moved on.
Correction: February 23, 2009, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about Yu Darvish, a 22-year-old star pitcher in Japan, referred incorrectly to the arrival of his current pitching coach, Masato Yoshii, who played for the Mets in the late 1990s. Yoshii became the coach for the 2008 season; this is not his first year in the position.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yu Darvish won Japan's top pitching award in 2007 by going 15-5 with a 1.82 earned run average and 210 strikeouts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK FIFE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (B1)
Yu Darvish ''has exceptional control of every pitch known to man except a knuckleball,'' his pitching coach, Masato Yoshii, said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK LAHAM/GETTY IMAGES)
 Daisuke Matsuzaka, the Red Sox star, and Darvish will anchor Japan's rotation. Darvish has been compared to Matsuzaka.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM ROGASH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)(pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); SOCCER (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (73%); FLORIDA, USA (64%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (87%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



784 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Dreadful, But Worse Elsewhere

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
If the economies and stock markets of the world were graded on a curve, the United States would be doing quite well.
In the fourth quarter of last year, the American economy shrank at a 3.8 percent annual rate, the worst such performance in a quarter-century. They are envious in Japan, where this week the comparable figure came in at negative 12.7 percent -- three times as bad.
Industrial production in the United States is falling at the fastest rate in three decades. But the 10 percent year-over-year plunge reported this week for January looks good in comparison to the declines in countries like Germany, off almost 13 percent in its most recently reported month, and South Korea, down about 21 percent. 
Even in the area of exploding mortgages, the United States has done better than some countries, particularly in Eastern Europe. There it is possible now to owe twice what a house is worth -- even if the house has not lost much of its value.
Grading on the curve, as any college student knows, requires that a certain proportion of high grades be given out no matter how badly the class as a whole performs. If the best student in the class gets just over half the answers right on a difficult test, that student deserves an A.
The real world, alas, does not score success in that way.
Consider how much money you would have left if you had put $100 into the stocks in the leading market indexes of major countries at the end of 2007, less than 14 months ago.
In the United States, you would now have about $53. That fact -- coupled with the reality that more Americans than ever are depending on the stock market to pay for their retirement -- has severely depressed sentiment and spending.
But it merits one of the top grades in this world. Among major markets, only Japan, at $59, has done better. In Britain, France, Spain and Germany, the figure would be around $45. In Italy, it would be $37. About a quarter of the money would still be there in countries like Ireland, Greece and Poland.
Remember the BRIC countries, where growth possibilities seemed limitless not long ago? The stars there are Brazil and China, where about $46 or $47 remains. In India, the figure is $35, and in Russia it is $23. At least they have all done a lot better than Iceland, where you would have just $3 left of your hypothetical $100.
All this failure, whether in markets or economies, is feeding upon itself. Imports and exports are falling nearly everywhere. ''Our exports have been hurt more by the global recession than their exports have been hurt by our recession,'' said Roger Kubarych, an economist at the Unicredit Group in New York.
Nowhere does the situation appear more dire now than in Eastern Europe.
Many of those countries had been running large current-account deficits, just as the United States has been doing. But the United States still has the ability to borrow all the dollars it wants -- in part because lenders know the United States can print more of them if it needs to.
Eastern European countries have no such printing presses, and those countries that can borrow show little interest in sharing the bounty.
''Emerging Europe appears to be suffering a 'sudden stop' in financing, which could cause the region's economy to contract by 5 percent to 10 percent this year,'' said Neil Shearing, an economist at Capital Economics in London. ''Markets in Eastern Europe appear to be in meltdown.'' He says the Baltic economies could shrink 20 percent this year.
The latest collapses are both a cause of and a result of worries about the health of banks in the region, many of which are owned by Western European banks. Some of those banks did a fine job of pushing ''affordable'' mortgages that are turning out to be just the opposite, endangering both borrower and lender.
The details differed from the subprime lending that was a major cause of the destruction of capital in the American banking system. There were no ''Ninja'' loans (no income, no job or assets) that would produce exploding monthly payments within a couple of years. Instead, the banks pushed mortgages denominated in foreign currencies -- largely the euro and the Swiss franc -- where interest rates were much lower than in the local currency markets.
The risk was obvious. What if the local currency lost value rapidly? That is just what is happening. The Hungarian forint is down by about a quarter this year against the Swiss franc, and by more than half since last summer.
That means someone who bought a house in Hungary last summer, financing it with a Swiss franc loan, now owes more than twice as many forints as he or she borrowed, and has a monthly payment that has increased by a similar amount. Even if the home's value has not fallen and the homeowner's job is safe, he or she may be in desperate straits. In fact, unemployment is rising and house prices are falling.
It has been noted in what Donald H. Rumsfeld called the ''old Europe'' that the European countries in the direst straits tend to be the ones that accepted American financial advice with the most enthusiasm. Now, however, few Americans seem to be interested.
Part of the Obama plan to revive the American financial system is an expansion of the TALF program, announced but not carried out by the Bush administration. That program -- short for Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility -- is supposed to stimulate financing for things like credit cards and student loans.
But the loans are not for just anybody. At least 95 percent of the money must go to American borrowers. ''It is a 'Lend America' program,'' said Mr. Kubarych.
When world leaders gather, there is a lot of talk about coordinated policies. When the leaders go home, it is every country for itself. Unfortunately, as the United States ought to have learned, doing better than anyone else may not be nearly enough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A stock market indicator in Hong Kong this week. Stock prices in the United States have fallen sharply since the end of 2007, but the situation is even bleaker in some other countries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) CHART: CURRENT VALUE OF A $100 INVESTMENT: Invested in the major stock index in each country on Dec. 31, 2007.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details bar graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ICELAND (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); GREECE (56%); POLAND (56%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



785 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW THE ART SHOW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Rewards and Clarity In a Show of Restraint

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
It's not clear if art fairs are dying or going back to their ''used to be,'' in the words sung by Bessie Smith. Either way, this year's Art Show, courtesy of the Art Dealers Association of America, is pretty much ''same as it ever was,'' to borrow from David Byrne.
Razzle-dazzle spectacle, stampeding collectors and buy-it-now pressure-cooking has never been the Art Show's style; neither has aisle upon aisle of booths stretching as far as the eye can see. But the times may be catching up with it.
The Art Show was founded in 1989. This year's version has, as usual, just 70 participants. It serves as a reminder that the boom-time art world was only a portion of a much larger, less volatile sphere. The vast majority of artists in this sphere never saw their work go to auction, much less fetch stratospheric prices there. Their boats may have floated a little higher, but they weren't swamped in dough. Most of the dealers did not have month after month of sell-out shows, nor were their rosters teeming with freshly minted M.F.A.'s. 
This fair is loaded with work that you will be grateful to see. There's little grandstanding and few works that reach out and grab you by the neck. The two main exceptions: At Ronald Feldman, Tavares Strachan has hermetically sealed 20 square feet of sidewalk from New Haven -- complete with dirt, moss, parking meter and signs -- in an immense nautiluslike chamber set at 40 degrees, commemorating the place (and temperature) where he received a parking ticket. At James Cohan, the centerpiece of a show called ''Body as Prop'' is a performance sculpture, ''In Just a Blink of an Eye,'' created by the Chinese artist Xu Zhen. It shows an actual, motionless person suspended midfall, as if just shot. It might almost be a Duane Hanson.
And yet, race through this fair and you may conclude it is lackluster. Seek and you will find more than enough that rewards.
Many of the best booths are devoted to one or two artists, which creates an unusual clarity. At the entrance the small, mordant paintings-on-photographs by Gerhard Richter at Marian Goodman range from holiday lightness to crime-scene darkness inhabited by phantom Sasquatches.
Michael Werner has mounted a truly inspired juxtaposition of clotted paintings by the French artist Eugene Leroy (1910-2000) and alabaster heads carved in first-century B.C. Arabia by sculptors seemingly exposed to an eclectic mix of Cycladic idols, Assyrian reliefs and who knows what else. Their pale translucence brings out the light and the figures hidden in the Leroys' forceful yet murky surfaces.
D C Moore's enchanting summary of Charles Burchfield's watercolors mixed with wallpaper designs (one of which reminded another observer of Christopher Wool) are countered at Susan Sheehan by the fiery colors of Donald Judd's woodcuts and at Matthew Marks by Ken Price's bulbously suggestive painted ceramic sculptures, seen here with strident little images of landscapes that they often inhabit.
Sikkema Jenkins has devoted its space to Merlin James's tender and wide-ranging paintings-about-painting; David Zwirner is all about Al Taylor's levitating abstractions, as Tanya Bonakdar is all about Ernest Neto's. Sperone Westwater is juxtaposing early and recent William Wegman to demonstrate his long interest in elaborating existing photographs and postcards into unexpected jokes and landscapes.
At Peter Freeman, Mel Bochner's latest word paintings mouth off -- Blah, Blah, Blah, Blah, Blah -- filling the eyes and ears with gorgeous Prussian blue. At Metro Pictures, Robert Longo's small, dense graphite renderings of famous paintings put his considerable drawing skills to good use, but don't tell Sherrie Levine about them.
Some galleries look to the past. Tibor de Nagy is starring Larry Rivers's early 1950s stirrings of Pop Art. Lelong has Helio Oiticica's early excursions into abstraction from the same period. Best of all, Ameringer Yohe has a raft of muscular ink drawings that Hans Hofmann made in sunny St.-Tropez in 1929, just before the other Crash. Some look remarkably like Philip Guston's late paintings, a group of which are at David McKee.
There are arresting cross-aisle conversations, like the one about the urban sublime between Joel Sternfeld's large color photographs, with their all-seasons views of the High Line in Chelsea at Luhring Augustine, and Rackstraw Downes's compact yet wide-open realist paintings of razor-wire-topped fences in Queens at Betty Cuningham.
Ideas about figuration are in play in the paintings and drawings of Nicola Tyson at Friedrich Petzel and works by Laura Owens and Elizabeth Peyton nearby at Gavin Brown, where an alluring display of recent art books from Printed Matter and older ones from Glenn Horowitz includes comfortable seating.
Sometimes the discussions stay in the booth, like the one among Lynda Benglis, Lucio Fontana and David Altmejd at Andrea Rosen. From here take in Ms. Benglis's new cast stainless totems, in concert with lush paintings on paper by Bill Jensen at Cheim & Read.
Still, some of the best booths are those of veteran art dealers putting up a little of this and a little of that and leaving the sorting out to you.
Examples include the early Diebenkorns at John Berggruen; the vintage photographs at Fraenkel; the South American painting at CDS; and works by Myron Stout, Salvatore Scarpitta and Jackson Pollock (painted ceramic) at Joan Washburn. The Stout-like pencil abstractions by Paul Vezelay at Zabriskie, find common ground with Jim Nutt's delicate drawings of heads at David Nolan. At St. Etienne an array of German Expressionist and Austrian works on paper are headlined by drawings, pastels and prints by the indomitable Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.
At Martha Parrish & James Reinish, Marguerite Zorach catches up with Fauvism in a landscape painted in Paris in 1912, while Alfred Maurer dissects the style stroke by stroke in a 1914 painting once owned by Arthur Dove. Next door at Achim Moeller, duck the glaring Piero Dorazio and look to the wings for a small rainbow idyll from 1914 by Robert Delaunay and a pastel of bristling forms from 1915 by Gino Severini and, backstage, three beatific paintings by Georges Rouault. At Lawrence Markey the surprises include suites of early drawings by Richard Tuttle and Jo Baer.
Knoedler's highlight is Milton Avery's ''Sea and Rocks (Ten Pound Island),'' a great late canvas from 1956 that may have learned a thing or two from Japanese screen painting and gardens. Its economy and evocativeness aligns with the controlled splashes of Helen Frankenthaler's ''Arcadia,'' painted six years later (1962) at Mitchell-Innes & Nash. On the other side of the same wall the blurry symmetry of the Frankenthaler is resurrected in a Rorschach painting from 1984 by Andy Warhol.
In boom times art dealers tend to get demonized on the way up and the way down. They deserve it, some people say. But the art world's zealously tended hierarchy -- artists on top, art dealers at the bottom -- has never been right.
Art dealers put their money where their vision is; only artists take greater risks. They help artists do what we all hope to do: make a living at something they love. If the nonartists in the realm of art achieve this state -- and some of us are privileged to do so -- it is partly because of the strange, tenuous, sometimes infuriating world that art dealers help construct, one day, artist or artwork at a time.
The Art Show is at the Park Avenue Armory, at 67th Street, Friday from noon to 8 p.m.; Saturday, noon to 6 p.m.; and Monday noon to 5 p.m. $20 per day, with all proceeds benefiting Henry Street Settlement. (212) 472-0590, armoryonpark.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Art Show: Ken Price's works at this annual fair include bulbous painted ceramic sculptures and small landscape images at the Park Avenue Armory.(C25)
Tavares Strachan's work commemorates the place where he received a parking ticket.
 Adelyne D. Liu is suspended in Xu Zhen's performance sculpture ''In Just a Blink of an Eye.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (91%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); ART DEALERS (77%); PARKING OFFENSES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



786 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; AMERICAN JOURNEYS BRETTON WOODS, N.H.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: An Economic Bright Spot

BYLINE: By JOHN MOTYKA

 BODY:
ONCE again, people are talking about Bretton Woods. Not just the cross-country and downhill skiers who zoom and whoosh over its snow at this time of year, but thinkers around the world for whom the name signifies not a resort, but a grand economic agreement -- the blueprint that gave a broken world a path to financial stability after World War II. For some, that Bretton Woods seems like the sort of thing it might be time to think about again.
In 1944, less than a month after D-Day, delegates from 44 nations met at the Mount Washington Hotel, which still sits grandly against the forested flanks and majestic peaks of the Presidential Range, welcoming guests. Germany and Japan were not invited, and the subject was money. The Allies were winning the war, but everyone knew that most countries -- even the winners -- would emerge as economic wrecks. It was time to invent new systems of finance and trade. 
Yet Bretton Woods is -- and was even then -- first of all a resort high in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, a place where summer breezes blow cool, autumns glow red and gold, and winter can be counted on to bring snow even in a warming world. Since Colonial times, the name has belonged to a basin west of Mount Washington. The Mount Washington Hotel, with more than 200 rooms, was built there in 1902.
When I visited Bretton Woods for a few weekdays in early January, nine inches of new snow fell and a mix of guests -- families, couples, small groups and singles -- kept the hotel's aptly named Great Hall humming. Some relaxed by the big fieldstone fireplace. Most had arrived with ski racks on their cars and duffel bags of gear.
On touring skis early on my first morning, I shuffled across a small bridge over the gently flowing Ammonoosuc River near the hotel and made a left turn onto Perimeter, a flat pathlike trail that encircles a golf course. I had picked up my gear and an indispensable trail map from the helpful staff at the hotel's Nordic center. As I eased into a steady kick-and-glide rhythm, the giant white hotel with its trademark red metal roof loomed above to the left.
Sixty miles of easily accessible Nordic trails threading through the snowy stillness of the White Mountain National Forest -- its border within 500 yards of the hotel -- make Bretton Woods one of the largest cross-country skiing areas in the Northeast, beloved by skiers and often a site of competitions.
I headed into a forest of spruce and fir and passed two solo skiers and a group of three heading back in light flurries. Bulky black clouds, laden with snow, were tussling with white fair-weather clouds, alternately scudding across and cloaking the mountainside. With historic resonance in mind, it wasn't much of a stretch to draw an analogy to the economic clouds that had Gordon Brown and Nicolas Sarkozy calling a couple of months earlier for a new Bretton Woods agreement for the 21st century. The G-20 conference in November was a response, but it hardly measured up to the monumental meeting of 1944.
The choice of Bretton Woods as the location then was partly a concession to the failing health of John Maynard Keynes -- the most renowned economist of the 20th century and Britain's chief representative -- in an era before air-conditioning. Keynes had a bad heart and pleaded with Harry Dexter White, the United States Treasury economist with whom he was making the plans, not to ''take us to Washington in July, which should surely be a most unfriendly act,'' according to Keynes's biographer, Robert Skidelsky.
State Department officials lobbied for a resort in Indiana, but Henry Morgenthau, the Treasury secretary, directed White: ''Have it in Maine or New Hampshire, some place up in the mountains there.'' The fact that State Route 302, which runs through the basin, could easily be sealed for security is thought to have played a role in the decision, too, along with President Franklin D. Roosevelt's friendship with Senator Charles Tobey of New Hampshire.
The Mount Washington was one of the grandest of the grand hotels built in northern New Hampshire after the Civil War. Joseph Stickney, a coal and railroad magnate, bought 10,000 acres with a commanding view of the mountain (about 8,000 acres of it is now part of the national forest) and hired Charles Alling Gifford, a prominent New York architect, who in turn hired 250 Italian craftsmen. They built what was then -- and may still be -- the largest wooden structure in New England, opulent but sturdy, with a Spanish Renaissance Revival exterior, a then-rare steel infrastructure, and the impressive French Renaissance-style Great Hall with stained-glass windows that conference delegates in 1944 would have admired as much as current guests do. The hotel was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1986.
It was Keynes -- a Cambridge intellectual and a friend of Virginia Woolf -- who was the indisputable star of the Bretton Woods conference, despite the waning of Britain's fortunes as the war drained its wealth. The premise of the meeting -- to ensure economic and political peace by stabilizing world currencies and thereby promoting free trade -- reflected Keynes's ideas about the need for government regulation and the failure of laissez-faire economics. It also reflected his horror at the Depression and his determination that the vindictive nature of the post-World War I peace process, which saddled Germany with huge, destabilizing debts, not be repeated.
Gliding steadily now on the Perimeter trail, I rounded a turn and glanced back at the sheer sweep of the back veranda and facade of the hotel. Keynes stayed in Room 129 with his wife, Lydia Lopokova, a former Russian ballerina who described Bretton Woods as ''a cross between Switzerland and Scotland.'' A hardy soul, she swam daily in the chilly waters of a pool formed by the Ammonoosuc directly behind the hotel. Morgenthau, lodged in the room directly below, was reportedly disturbed by Lopokova's dance exercises during the three weeks of the conference.
From the Perimeter trail, I made a turn onto the moderately difficult Bridle Path and headed deep into the national forest. I was rewarded with shelter from the wind and, except for the occasional soloist or small group of skiers, the quiet to enjoy the now-surging Ammonoosuc as it carved a picturesque channel through ice and snow on its way down from Mount Washington. The icy river is the skier's constant companion on the Bridle Path, which ends at Middle Falls, a cascade where a tiny overlook provides a view. From there it was an easy run on some tree-lined straightaways on connecting trails back to the Nordic center. I arrived exhilarated.
Inside the hotel, twice-daily guided tours explain some of the history. Capacious as it is, the Mount Washington was hardly big enough in 1944, my guide, Owen McQueeny, explained. With 1,000 people at the conference, some had to sleep in closets (current guests will note that this may not have been that much of a hardship, given the size of the closets in their rooms). China, the second largest delegation, actually stayed in Franconia, 22 miles away. The Chinese were the biggest tippers -- they arrived with rolls of quarters.
Delegates struggled with a babel of languages and legal terminology amid the stately columns of the Grand Ballroom, and committees worked into the night in what Lopokova called a ''madhouse.'' The British delegation worked to 3:30 a.m. until Keynes said that some of his people were ''quite breaking up under the strain.''
The British were facing the uncomfortable reality that they had been surpassed: the United States had become the world's biggest economic player. In the end, the Bretton Woods agreement established the American dollar as the world's predominant currency, pegged to gold and with other currencies fixed against it -- a system that endured until the 1970s, when President Richard M. Nixon took the dollar off the gold standard and floating exchange rates soon prevailed. By that time, three decades of relative stability had helped the world's other economies recover and grow. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, also established at the conference, are still with us, with headquarters in Washington.
Some visitors view a trip to Bretton Woods almost as a pilgrimage. Mary Ann Gordon, a hotel tour guide, recalls the remark of a German consul last year that it gave him ''chills'' to see ''the place where they saved Europe.'' And lately, she said, more and more tour takers have interrupted her to call for ''another Bretton Woods.''
Most guests, however, are more like Elaine Lord, a skier from Westchester County, N.Y., who admired the rock maple table in the Gold Room where the final articles of agreement were signed but described the ''crunch to the snow'' as what draws her.
In the Rosebrook Bar behind the lobby, guests sipped drinks and took in the panoramic view from large windows while an all-news channel on a corner television reported that Barack Obama, then still the president-elect, was having urgent meetings with economic advisers. The stock market was still down, unemployment numbers still alarming, Wall Street still an international pariah. Policy makers were still arguing about Keynesian economics -- not whether to apply Keynes's advocacy of government stimulus in recessions, but how far to take it.
This was a good a time as any, I decided, to head back to the hushed, evergreen-shaded entrance to a trail I'd passed off the Bridle Path -- and this time do some ruminative snowshoeing.
IF YOU GO
The Mount Washington Hotel (800-314-1752; www.mountwashingtonresort.com) is on New Hampshire Route 302, about 17 miles east of Exit 36 of Interstate 93. Room rates vary depending on the type of accommodation plan chosen. A room for two starts at $219. Rooms at the nearby Lodge start at $119.
SKIING AND SNOWSHOEING
At the Nordic ski center, (603) 278-3322, a ski pass is $14 for a resort guest ($7 for children). . Rental of touring or skating skis is $18, $12 for children. A cross-country group lesson is $18; private lesson, $30; snowshoe rental $15. The resort also has 434 acres of downhill ski terrain.
Bretton Woods will host the annual Mount Washington Cup ski race on March 15.
WHAT TO READ
''John Maynard Keynes 1883-1946: Economist, Philosopher, Statesman'' (Penguin Books) by Robert Skidelsky supplies an insightful picture of the Bretton Woods conference and Keynes's role in it.
''This Grand and Magnificent Place: The Wilderness Heritage of the White Mountains'' (University of New Hampshire Press) by Christopher Johnson offers perspective on the mountain environment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GATHERING PLACE: Skiers relax today at the Mount Washington Hotel, where a global monetary system was created in 1944. (D1)
THE SCENE Inside the hotel, where the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund were founded.
 SKIING AND THINKING: Top, cross-country skiing near the Mount Washington Hotel. Above, John Maynard Keynes at the hotel in 1944, addressing the Bretton Woods economic conference. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. D6) MAPS (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); GOLF (73%); HOTEL STAFF (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



787 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'CHE' (R, 4:17, in Spanish and English; shown in two parts, 2:09 and 2:08) Nearly four and a half hours long and spanning more than a decade, ''Che'' surely deserves the overworked, frequently misapplied label of epic. But it's a narrow epic, and while Benicio Del Toro, in the title role, offers a performance that's technically flawless, the movie is politically naive and dramatically inert.
(A. O. Scott)
'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. 
(Manohla Dargis)
'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC' (PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too. (Dargis)
- 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways. (Scott)'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott)
'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis)
'FRIDAY THE 13TH' (R, 1:30) An undying slasher-flick franchise gets a surprisingly decent reboot in this stylish, playful example of the decapitated-hottie genre. (Nathan Lee)
'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown.
(Dargis)
'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Stephen Holden)
- 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screen. (Dargis)
'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I.
(Dargis)
'THE INTERNATIONAL' (R, 1:58) A murderous bank, pursued by Clive Owen and Naomi Watts. Much less interesting, and also less frightening, than a daily perusal of the business pages. (Scott)
- 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. (Scott)
'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
- 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
- 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rosselini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams. (Scott)
'UNDER THE SEA 3D' (G, 40 minutes) No computer-designed animatronic invention can begin to match the beauty and grace of the oceanic life photographed in this visually enthralling 40-minute tour of the southwestern Pacific, aimed primarily at elementary school-age youngsters. (Holden)
- 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott)
Film Series
AN EVENING WITH MARNI NIXON (Monday) Famous for being anonymous, Ms. Nixon provided the singing voice behind three of the most celebrated performances in movie musicals: Deborah Kerr in ''The King and I'' (1956), Natalie Wood in ''West Side Story'' (1961) and Audrey Hepburn in ''My Fair Lady'' (1964). Ms. Nixon, who has worked with Stravinsky, Bernstein, Copland, Boulez, Ives and Schoenberg, will be interviewed by the author Stephen Cole on topics that cover her off-screen life as well as her career as a concert singer. At 7:30 p.m., Film Forum 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $11. (Dave Kehr)
FILM COMMENT SELECTS (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday) This rich collection of work, both recent films and revivals, is chosen by the editors and writers of the journal Film Comment. The two-week series begins Friday with three local premieres: ''A Woman in Berlin,'' a film about one woman's struggle to survive the Soviet occupation of the conquered German capital, directed by Max Farberbock (''Aimee and Jaguar''); Michael Almereyda's diary film ''Paradise,'' in which he visits Iran, Los Angeles and Pleasantville, N.J.; and ''The Mugger,'' a ''minimalist thriller'' about a man who robs two schools in Buenos Aires and goes on the run, from the first-time director Pablo Fendrik. Other premieres in the first week include John Boorman's mysteriously neglected ''Tiger's Tail'' (2006), a follow-up to his 1998 film ''The General,'' featuring another bravura performance by Brendan Gleeson, this time as an Irish new capitalist haunted by a doppelganger (Saturday); Na Hong-jin's hit Korean thriller, ''The Chaser'' (Saturday); a new black-and-white feature from the French avant-gardist Philippe Garrel, ''The Frontier of Dawn'' (Sunday); and Gotz Spielmann's German crime drama ''Revanche'' (Tuesday). On the revival front, there's Rainer Werner Fassbinder's bitter 1979 comedy of bourgeois would-be revolutionaries, ''The Third Generation'' (Saturday); Joel DeMott's cinema-verite documentary ''Demon Lover Diary'' (1980), about the making of a low-budget horror movie (Sunday), shown with Ms. DeMott's controversial 1983 documentary, ''Seventeen,'' directed with Jeff Kreines (Sunday); and Lou Adler's caustic 1981 comedy about the rise of a girl punk band, ''Ladies and Gentlemen, the Fabulous Stains,'' starring the teenage Diane Lane and Laura Dern (Wednesday). (Through March 5.) Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)
FILMS BY JORIS IVENS (Thursday) This program features rare screenings of important documentaries by Mr. Ivens, a wide-ranging Dutch-born filmmaker, including his 1937 propaganda treatise on the Spanish Civil War, ''The Spanish Earth'' (6 p.m.), and ''The 400 Million,'' a horrified look at the Japanese invasion of China released in 1939 (8:30 p.m.). Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Evening With Marni Nixon: Ms. Nixon, top, has been the singing voice behind some of the most popular movie musicals: clockwise from left, Deborah Kerr in ''The King and I,'' Natalie Wood in ''West Side Story'' and Audrey Hepburn in ''My Fair Lady.'' On Monday at Film Forum, Ms. Nixon will discuss her enduring career onstage and behind the scenes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FILM FORUM
20TH CENTURY FOX/PHOTOFEST
UNITED ARTISTS/PHOTOFEST
 WARNER BROTHERS/PHOTOFEST) (C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); HORROR FILMS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); LITERATURE GENRES (73%); RELIGION (71%); CHILDREN (68%); SEX OFFENSES (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CHILD ABUSE (50%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); CATE BLANCHETT (59%); BRAD PITT (59%); MERYL STREEP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



788 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
IN JAPAN, AN ADMINISTRATION,
And Its Party's Uncertain Future
Recent blows against the administration of Taro Aso, Japan's very unpopular prime minister, have raised questions about its longevity. The prime minister's Liberal Democratic Party, which has held sway in Japan for over half a century, is a larger question. Analysts say a defeat for the party in coming elections could mean its end. Page A6
NO, NO, NOT CRICKET!
Britain has been under siege; its banks shudder under a weight of debt; its largest stores are closing; and unemployment is skyrocketing. To add to these indignities, an inquiry has begun into the financial empire of R. Allen Stanford -- an American who thrust himself into a powerful role in the world of cricket -- an inquiry that could sully the hallowed sport. Page A8 
AQUITTAL IN RUSSIAN MURDER TRIAL
A Moscow jury acquitted three men who were accused of murdering a prominent investigative journalist, Anna Politkovskaya, above. The outcome was frustrating for those seeking justice for the murder. Human rights advocates expressed pessimism, saying the verdict sends a permissive message to political killers. Page A6
U.S. OFFICIALS VISIT GAZA
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and two other Congressional Democrats made the first visit to Gaza by American legislators since 2000 to assess the destruction for themselves, Mr. Kerry said. He added that this visit does not reflect a change in the United States policy on Hamas. Page A13
IN CANADA, WALKING A FINE LINE
President Obama treaded lightly on his first foreign trip, to Canada, working hard to ensure that there were no ruffled feathers over issues like trade policy, climate change and the war in Afghanistan. At the same time, Mr. Obama got to enjoy his celebrity status. His popularity there is such that he even drew volunteers across the border during his campaign. Page A10
TRIAL STARTS FOR IRAQI JOURNALIST
An Iraqi journalist who threw his shoes at former President George W. Bush had his first appearance in court, where he is charged with assaulting a foreign leader. He entered to cheers and applause, which a judge quickly quelled, and after an hour, the court was adjourned until March 12. Page A12
IRAN UNDERSTATES URANIUM LEVELS
Atomic inspectors have found that Iran understated by a third exactly how much uranium it had enriched, United Nations officials said. Page A12
national
SNAIL-PACED PLANS
For High-Speed Rail
Despite Japan's having introduced the first bullet trains more than 40 years ago, the United States still lacks true high-speed rail. And although an $8 billion investment for high-speed rail, added at the last minute to the stimulus package, may seem like a way to get back on track, transportation experts say that amount is not enough for a single bullet train. PAGE A14
TRACKING STIMULUS MONEY CLOSELY
For the $787 billion stimulus plan signed this week by President Obama, the stakes -- financially and politically -- are huge. So it's no surprise that the first disbursement would be the $350 million to government auditors, investigators and lawyers who will try to track all the taxpayer money being spent on economic recovery. PAGE A18
EMBRACING PARTS OF STIMULUS BILL
Republican lawmakers nearly unanimously resisted supporting the president's stimulus package, but a handful of Republican members of the House and Senate have found some provisions to cheer. PAGE A18
SEEKING GERONIMO'S SKULL
The descendants of Geronimo have sued Skull and Bones, a secret society at Yale University with strong ties to the Bush family, charging that its members robbed the Apache warrior's grave in 1918 and have kept his skull in a glass case ever since. PAGE A14
CONDUCT OF TEXAS JUDGE EXAMINED
The Texas Commission on Judicial Conduct has started proceedings against the presiding judge of the state's highest criminal court because two years ago she closed her office promptly at 5 p.m. when she knew a death row inmate was about to file an appeal. PAGE A14
Boy Pleads Guilty to Killing Father A16
NONPROFITS GO BANKRUPT, TOO
Charities rarely go bankrupt. Traditionally, insolvent organizations have simply closed their doors and filed a plan of dissolution with the charity regulator in their state. But in the last six months, nonprofit groups have filed to reorganize or liquidate themselves under the bankruptcy code. PAGE A17
obituaries
PEER M. PORTNER, 69
His revealing studies of the heart's function led to development of the Novacor pump, an electrical device used to let seriously ill patients survive long enough for a heart transplant. PAGE A22
New York
PATERSON WEIGHS THE POSSIBILITY
Of Rehiring Former Top Aide
Gov. David A. Paterson has been privately sounding out the possibility of bringing back Charles J. O'Byrne, his former chief adviser, who resigned amid a messy tax scandal, according to two Democrats familiar with the discussions. Page A23
A HIP HOP LEGACY, PLUS BURGERS
At Hollis Famous Burgers in Queens, the burgers are a buck and include a free pass to the Hollis Hip Hop Museum. It's a small place over all, but Hollis is New York's Nashville, the owner says . Hollis has given rise to some of hip-hop's greatest including Ja Rule, LL Cool J, Irv Gotti and DMC, above, of the group Run-DMC. Page A23
Business
NEW JUSTICE DEPT. DEMANDS
For UBS in Tax Evasion Case
The Justice Department is pressuring UBS for the names of 52,000 Americans as part of criminal claims against the Swiss banking giant. Prosecutors said in court papers that UBS used secret offshore accounts to help American clients evade taxes. Page B1
High & Low Finance
The Best of a Bad Situation
If the world economy was graded on a curve, Floyd Norris writes, the United States would look fine against the current backdrop. Unfortunately, the whole world is suffering and it isn't enough to be the one suffering least. Page B1
THE TEXAS ROOTS OF AN EMPIRE
The multibillion-dollar financial empire of Robert Allen Stanford has deep, decades-long roots in the small town of Mexia. Regulators this week accused him this week of running an $8 billion fraud. The inquiry has uncovered a complicated series of twists and turns in his business, and the town has been left reeling in the fallout. Page B1
Breakingviews.com
Survival and Comeback Stories
At a glance, an alliance between Sprint and Palm looks like the two kids who get picked last for basketball teams, but it seems to be working. Yahoo has scored a win with its increased search market, which should give Microsoft and Google cause for some backward glances. Page B2
SPRINT REPORTS CUSTOMER LOSS
Sprint Nextel reported losing 1.3 million subscribers in its fourth quarter after a dismal year in 2008. Sprint is the third-largest cellphone provider in the country, and with this loss falls even further behind AT&T and Verizon, both of whom managed to add customers during the last year. Page B2
Sports
JAPANESE BASEBALL'S RISING STAR
Poised to Garner More Accolades
Yu Darvish is already a celebrated talent in Japanese baseball, and his hard work in practice garners considerable attention. There have even been frequent comparisons between him and Daisuke Matsuzaka, and talks of his readiness to stand alongside the star in a formidable starting rotation for Japan at the approaching World Baseball Classic on March 5. Page B11
Armstrong Is Part of the Pack B11
WOODS TO RETURN IN MATCH-PLAY
It was the declaration heard around the golf world. ''I'm now ready to play again,'' Tiger Woods wrote on his Web site while announcing his much-anticipated return to competitive golf next week at the World Golf Championships, a match-play event in Tucson. Woods has been sidelined since June 16 after he underwent surgery to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. Page B14
Escapes
ENJOYING THE HAMPTONS
Before the Crowds Descend
Unless you rented or owned in the Hamptons or knew somebody who did, your options for lodging there were limited, shabby and uncomfortable. And, you paid dearly for the privilege. But those options are improving as establishments complete renovations, and if you get in before the high season this summer there are deals to be had. Page D1
American Journeys
History, Skis and New Hampshire
Bretton Woods in the White Mountains of New Hampshire was the stage for the creation of a path to economic stability after World War II. But it is a top skiing destination, John Motyka writes, and a beautiful resort. Page D1
OPPORTUNITY AMID THE MISERY
As the housing market continues to stagger through another tough year, some people shopping for second homes are finding bargains in all those hundreds of thousands of foreclosures in the Sun Belt. Page D1
Ski Report
Country Club Perks on an Incline
The popularity of private ski clubs has been rising. A membership fee and annual dues provide access to perks like spas, ski valets and a gathering place to share interests in an environment of exclusivity. Page D2
Wide Open in the Sierras' Shadow D3
Weekend
Television Review
Sex and Four Fashionable Women, But No Obsession With Heels
''Mistresses,'' a new series on BBC America, is escapist realism for women, a well-made soap opera, elevated less by ingenious plot lines than by talented actors and narrative sophistication, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
Film Review
Boys Take Up Pompoms to Woo
''Fired Up!'' is kind of dumb, but also kind of smart-about-being-dumb comedy, Manohla Dargis writes. It centers on two football players, friends and hormone-fueled teenagers, who join a cheerleading camp to be surrounded by women. PAGE C13
Theater Reviews
Male Friendship. That's It.
A musical now at the Booth Theater seems perfect for these financially lean times. ''The Story of My Life'' is short, has only two characters and uses an almost naked set; no need to waste cash on lavish sceneries and bloated casts. The portrait of a friendship stars Will Chase and Malcolm Gets. But the creators of this production forgot several vital elements that make a successful musical, Ben Brantley writes. PAGE C1
BLOOD, GUTS AND O'NEILL
The New Group revival of Eugene O'Neill's ''Mourning Becomes Electra'' at the Acorn Theater ''feels underrehearsed and understaged,'' Charles Isherwood writes. PAGE C2
In 1913 With the Joffrey Ballet C3
Film
A Grab Bag of Cinematic Goodies
One of the main virtues of Film Comment Selects, an annual series presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, is its ability to rescue a potentially interesting film that has succumbed to the fickle distribution system and vanished into the ether. PAGE C6
Lorin Maazel's Philharmonic C11
Arts Review
Finding Rewards at the Art Show
Courtesy of the Art Dealers Association of America, this year's Art Show has, as usual, just 70 participants. And if raced through, the whole production may seem a bit lackluster. But at slower speeds, the fair offers more than enough rewards, Roberta Smith writes. PAGE C23
Why University Museums Matter C23
Books of The Times
'The Fat Man and Infinity'
A collection of the short, impressionistic newspaper columns of the Portuguese novelist Antonio Lobo Antunes is reviewed by Dwight Garner. PAGE C28
Editorial
SALVAGING AFGHANISTAN
The situation in Afghanistan is coming apart quickly. In coming weeks, President Obama will have to grapple with a series of very difficult questions, starting with how he will define success. Page A22
TWO EARLY TESTS ON GUNS
The Obama administration has chosen to defend a bad rule rushed through during President George W. Bush's final days in office that would allow concealed, loaded firearms in national parks and wildlife refuges. The question is whether this reflects a broader weakening of President Obama's stated commitment to sensible gun control policies. Page A22
104 WILL GET YOU $300 MILLION
A lobbying powerhouse recently raided by federal agents has hurriedly gone out of business, but not before leaving a detailed blueprint of how the political money churn works in Congress. Page A22
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
The Obama administration's policy initiatives will help the economy in this difficult period -- especially if the administration bites the bullet and takes over weak banks. But still one wonders: Who'll stop the pain? Page A23
DAVID BROOKS
Government isn't fundamentally in the Last Judgment business, making sure everybody serves penance for their sins. In times like these, government is fundamentally in the business of stabilizing the economic system as a whole. Page A23
NO LUNCH LEFT BEHIND
High-fat, overprocessed foods are the hallmark of the national school lunch program. In an Op-Ed article, the chef Alice Waters and Katrina Heron, of the Chez Panisse Foundation, present a plan for bringing farm-fresh foods to school cafeterias across the country. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (86%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); VERDICTS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); ACQUITTAL (68%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (68%); HAMAS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (52%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); TARO ASO (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CANADA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011



789 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: From Sea to Sea, the City Still Rules

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''I Dream of Denver'' (column, Feb. 17):
 David Brooks had holes in his thesis that you could send a light rail line through. 
 More than half of the 10 cities Mr. Brooks names as most popular with Americans and somehow proof of their anti-urban tastes -- Denver, San Diego, Seattle, San Francisco, Phoenix, Portland, Sacramento, Orlando, Tampa and San Antonio -- are pursuing aggressively pro-urban policies that revolve around building more transit, more bicycle lanes and fewer roads. 
 That includes the No. 1 city, Denver, which a few years ago voted to approve probably the largest new mass transit system in the United States. 
 Portland, of course, has been the most aggressive pro-urban city in the country for three decades. In Portland, you can now ride a bike and have priority over cars on many streets, just as in Amsterdam. 
 If Mr. Brooks thinks Americans don't want to be urban, he needs better evidence than he cites here.
 Alex Marshall Brooklyn, Feb. 17, 2009
 The writer is the author of ''How Cities Work: Suburbs, Sprawl and the Roads Not Taken.''
 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks's column is correct in the big picture but oh so wrong in assessing a smaller but important picture, the rise of downtown living.
 Philadelphia and Chicago, Lower Manhattan, Los Angeles, Atlanta and yes, even Denver have experienced an influx of residents who have transformed old central business districts and adjacent areas into what is today's ''new downtown,'' one that is animated day and night. 
 While few in number, these residents have had enormous impacts on enlivening and redefining metropolitan cores and have anchored the revitalization of nearby neighborhoods. 
 The record of success in this area is clear. Cities that have dealt with the basics (safety and sanitation), invested in amenities and offered incentives to level the playing field with the less expensive suburbs have benefited most. 
 These cities have made improvements largely on their own, often in the face of severe fiscal difficulties. Most important, they represent an important model for sustainability. 
 City living is not for everyone, but a portion of the nation's more than 100 million households has opted for walkable, urbane places to fulfill their American dreams. Let's recognize and respect their choices and provide an intellectual and investment climate that supports a variety of ''good lives,'' not only one.
 Eugenie L. Birch Philadelphia, Feb. 18, 2009
 The writer is co-director, Penn Institute for Urban Research and the author of ''Who Lives Downtown?''
 To the Editor: 
 As an urban planner who just returned from a conference in Amsterdam, I was intrigued by David Brooks's assertion that urban planners harbor a dream that America will someday look a little more like Amsterdam.
 Urban planners do not want to copy any community. Instead, we dream that Americans can exercise choice -- a distinctly American value -- when selecting a place to live and means of travel.
 We have not had a free market in land for more than half a century, as the federal government has built the suburbs through myriad subsidies and policies. With government writing down the costs of development in certain locations that require private vehicles, it is not surprising that Americans now favor deeply subsidized places to live.
 Amsterdam has a 500-year-old city center, transit-oriented development and American-style business parks even further from the historic center. People choose among walking, biking, taking transit or using private vehicles. 
 Perhaps Amsterdam does offer lessons about choices and how to build places of lasting value.
 W. Paul Farmer Chief Executive American Planning Association Chicago, Feb. 17, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (87%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); APPROVALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



790 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Now Touching Nonprofits

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
On Tuesday, the board of Glass Youth and Family Services in Los Angeles voted to file for bankruptcy protection, unable to overcome falling state reimbursements, rising costs and dwindling donations.
 ''We did everything we could to keep going,'' said Teresa DeCrescenzo, executive director of the organization, which offers social services to gay, lesbian and transgender youth.
 Charities rarely go bankrupt, although there have been scattered examples involving nonprofit hospitals and Catholic dioceses facing lawsuits stemming from the priest sexual abuse scandals. Traditionally, insolvent organizations have simply closed their doors and filed a plan of dissolution with the charity regulator in their state. 
 But in the last six months, nonprofit groups that include cultural institutions and social service agencies have filed to reorganize or liquidate themselves under the bankruptcy code. 
 While no one has compiled data on how many charities have turned to the courts for protection, experts in the field say it has become more common as nonprofits have been pressured by donors to operate more like businesses.
 ''Our expectation is that this is just the tip of the iceberg,'' said Diana Aviv, president and chief executive of Independent Sector, a trade association for nonprofit groups, pointing to a decline in donations and the difficulty such groups are having in getting loans.
 Performing arts groups typically are the nonprofits hit first in economic downturns, as donors devote more of their giving to charities that address basic needs and consumers cut spending on entertainment. Groups like the Baltimore Opera Company and the Spartans Drum and Bugle Corps in Nashua, N.H., are either reorganizing under bankruptcy protection or simply going out of business.
 Also among those seeking bankruptcy protection in the last six months are a rape crisis organization in Maine, a low-income housing group in Massachusetts and a nonprofit retirement community in Pennsylvania that took on too much debt.
 Under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code, charities can get relief from creditors, obtain emergency financing, renegotiate leases and draw up a reorganization plan to let them emerge as financially viable.
 Some charities, however, have resorted to Chapter 7 of the code, under which organizations liquidate. The American Musical Theater of San Jose, Calif., for instance, took that route.
 Michael Miller, the theater's chief executive and executive producer, said it had used the bankruptcy code rather than simply dissolve itself because it had loans it could not repay and needed a way to deal with creditors, including some 16,500 subscription ticket holders. 
 ''That's one difference,'' Mr. Miller said. ''Even a large corporation might have only 100 or 200 creditors, while we have tens of thousands.''
 He took over the theater company about four years ago, when it had a $2 million deficit. It worked to increase donations and received a $1 million line of credit from the City of San Jose.
 Then it struck a deal to co-produce ''Tarzan'' and advanced $225,000 to Theater of the Stars in Atlanta, as did Dallas Summer Musicals, a theater company in Dallas. 
 The Atlanta company ''called us in late November and said not only that it didn't have any money left, it had no production to deliver,'' Mr. Miller said. 
 Nick Manos, president of the Theater of the Stars in Atlanta, said his organization's own financial straits had forced it to cancel the production. ''We have returned all the money to Dallas and made an offer to San Jose to return the money, and they declined,'' Mr. Manos said. 
 But the San Jose theater had already sold more than $800,000 worth of tickets to the show, so recouping its initial investment would not begin to repair the damage, Mr. Miller said. With its subscription renewal period looming and two other shows falling short of revenue goals, the board decided to go dark. 
 ''We've gone through all the emotions here -- shock, numbness, devastation, anger and tears,'' Mr. Miller said. ''Not only did everyone have to be laid off, they had to pack up their offices, give me their keys, and I had to change the locks on the doors the day before Thanksgiving.''
 Brockton Family and Community Services, a nonprofit group in Brockton, Mass., that deals with domestic violence, filed for Chapter 11 protection in 2007, after the Internal Revenue Service threatened to seize a building it owned because it had not paid payroll taxes.
 The organization had moved into rented offices with the hope of selling its building and using the proceeds to meet its tax obligations, said David B. Madoff, its chairman and the lawyer who helped with its bankruptcy. ''The sale fell through twice in 2007, and the real estate market began going south,'' Mr. Madoff said. 
 Under court protection, Brockton Family moved back into its building, eliminating the need to pay rent, and it reduced some services. It emerged from bankruptcy protection in November.
 Copia, a nonprofit organization founded by the late Napa Valley winemaker Robert Mondavi to cultivate appreciation for fine food and wine, is not so lucky. Conceived as a destination that would draw hundreds of thousands of visitors a year with its organic herb gardens, a demonstration kitchen and a restaurant, it collapsed in November under $78 million of debt and initially sought to reorganize under Chapter 11.
 Instead, the presiding judge is forcing it to liquidate.
 Glass Youth and Family Services had been living off its credit cards for several months. ''The Internet was down for two days last week because we couldn't pay the bill, and a repo man showed up for one of the vans we use to transport the kids around,'' Ms. DeCrescenzo said.
 The reasons for Glass's financial woes are similar to those causing other nonprofits to go bankrupt. Ms. DeCrescenzo said the state of California, which accounts for almost 70 percent of the organization's revenues, had not raised the rates it pays for services in nine years, while expenses had increased. 
 Aggravating those problems was a decision Glass made some time ago to allow only six beds in its group homes.
 ''We have held out for more than a decade against moving to a group home model with 12 beds or more because we thought smaller homes create a family environment that was better for the kids,'' Ms. DeCrescenzo said. ''That was a mistake.''
 American Express has been calling her repeatedly, she said, seeking payment of $100,000 that has been charged to the corporate credit card for hotel rooms for teenagers who had aged out of group homes; the company is also threatening to seek a lien against Ms. DeCrescenzo's house.
 The I.R.S. also wants her house because Glass has failed to pay its payroll taxes.
 ''The one thing I have is my home,'' Ms. DeCrescenzo said, ''and now I lay awake at night thinking someone is going to take it away from me.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The director of a bankrupt charity in Los Angeles, Teresa DeCrescenzo, may also lose her house.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES0 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); THEATER (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); FAMILY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); CHARITIES LAW (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); HOSPITALS (71%); RELIGION (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); SEX SCANDALS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); MUSICAL THEATER (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); THEATER COMPANIES (64%); MUSIC (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); NASHUA, NH, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



791 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Deal, California Shuts $41 Billion Gap

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Take-home pay for Californians is about to shrink. Jeans, hammers, burgers and fries will cost more. Public school children will make do with old textbooks and find more classmates sitting next to them. Parents will receive fewer tax benefits, and state university students will pay 9 percent more in tuition. 
 As the sun rose in Sacramento on Thursday, state lawmakers ended months of political gridlock and agreed on a series of budget measures that included something for most everyone in California to despise. The $143 billion budget closes a $41 billion deficit through 2010 with tax increases, deep cuts in services and extensive borrowing. 
 Although California's budget process is unusual and its fiscal problems outsized -- the state's deficit is larger than the expenditures of all but 10 other states -- economists say this budget foreshadows the difficult choices that other state legislatures will soon face as the national economy worsens. 
 Republican lawmakers voted for tax increases at the possible expense of losing the next election; Democrats agreed to spending cuts unheard of in other downturns; and most everyone in Sacramento averted even greater compromises by looking to the federal stimulus money to bail them out. 
 California wrestled with its budget shortfall earlier than other states essentially because of a trick of timing. The state's current budget was passed months late last fall and was immediately shot through with holes because of the economic downturn. In a lengthy emergency session that ended with the vote on Thursday, legislators closed the current gap as well as the projected gap for the next fiscal year.
 Most other states are only beginning to address their shortfalls. But with 40 states operating in the red, similar days of reckoning will soon be coming to state capitals from Florida to Arizona, state budget officials say.
 ''California is an example of what you will see'' across the country, said Susan Urahn, the managing director of the Pew Center on the States and a budget expert. The size of budget deficits in other states will lead to similarly hard-fought debates on how to close the gaps, Ms. Urahn said. 
 What is more, California might have set the template as other states ponder how to apply the more fungible outlays of the federal stimulus money. ''My guess is states will use what they can to reduce cuts to the bone in education and health care,'' Ms. Urahn said.
 California's budget agreement came after a record-long floor session of nearly 46 hours. Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature, reluctantly agreed to a series of concessions to win the support of a single Republican senator, whose vote was necessary to reach the two-thirds majority required under state law for budget bills. 
 All 75 Democrats in the Legislature voted for the budget agreement, along with 6 of the 44 Republicans in the two houses. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said he would sign the agreement on Friday. 
 The pact contains $14.8 billion in spending cuts, including to public transit, health care, schools and the courts; $12.5 billion in tax increases; $5.4 billion in new borrowing; and the creation of a $1 billion reserve fund. 
 Personal income tax rates will rise by one-quarter of a percent, and the state sales tax will climb by 1 percentage point, to 6 percent, though each county will have different rates and the average will be 8.9 percent. The state's vehicle license fee -- which Mr. Schwarzenegger abolished with great theatrics when he took office in 2003 -- will nearly double, to 1.15 percent of the value of the vehicle. 
 Left on the cutting-room floor was a proposed 12-cent increase in the gasoline tax; lawmakers filled the gap instead with $600 million in cuts and an infusion of federal stimulus money. 
 According to the budget documents, if the state receives what it predicts from the federal stimulus package -- more than $9 billion -- there would be other benefits to the budget: borrowing would be reduced by roughly half, $950 million in cuts would be restored and the tax increases would be reduced. 
 After negotiating almost without sleep since Saturday, a deal was struck in the early hours on Thursday when Democratic lawmakers agreed to the lion's share of the demands made by the holdout Republican, Abel Maldonado of Santa Maria, who wanted state constitutional amendments banning legislative pay increases during deficit years and creating more competitive elections by establishing open primaries. 
 It was a hard-fought but costly victory for Mr. Schwarzenegger, who became governor during another budget crisis in 2003 in part by vowing never to raise taxes. He will soon have the distinction of being the first California governor to sign off on a major tax increase since Pete Wilson, a Republican, negotiated a $7 billion broad-based increase in 1991.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger rode into office as a reformer but has morphed into a centrist often at odds with his party.
 He said the state's election processes, including its many ballot initiatives and the drawing of uncompetitive political districts, were to blame for the three-month budget stalemate, during which infrastructure projects were shut down, workers were furloughed, payments to counties were withheld and tax refunds were left in state coffers. 
 ''We've got to bring people to the center,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said at a news conference in Sacramento, during which he vowed to campaign for open primaries, which would require voter approval. ''We need to change the system itself.'' 
 The governor worked behind the scenes to win Mr. Maldonado's vote and backed his demand for legislative approval for the amendment to make California political primaries open and nonpartisan. A similar measure was recently enacted in Washington State. 
 Proponents of open primaries, which weaken traditional parties, cite the gerrymandered districts here that have typically resulted in the election of Republicans who are more conservative than the general population and Democrats who are more liberal. 
 In the past, Democrats have been able to count on Mr. Maldonado, a moderate Republican from the Central Coast, to break with his party without making such demands. The only other Republican who seemed prepared to break the deadlock in the Senate, Dave Cox, indicated mild support in exchange for dismantling environmental legislation near to the hearts of Democrats and Mr. Schwarzenegger.
 The new taxes in the budget agreement are set to last for two years but could be extended another two years if voters approve a permanent state spending cap in a referendum on May 19. The open-primary measure, intended to apply to legislative and Congressional races, is set to be on the ballot in June 2010.
 It was not immediately clear on Thursday when the $3.3 billion that was not paid during the stalemate to taxpayers, contractors and local governments would be forthcoming from the state. The state controller and the Finance Department will work this week to set a pay schedule.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger updated a ''deficit clock'' on Thursday after a budget was approved after months of gridlock. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A18) CHART: New Taxes and Big Cuts: After 100 days of negotiations, the California legislature on Thursday approved a budget package that closed the state's $41 billion deficit through spending reductions and additional revenue generated from taxes. Sources: Office of the Speaker of the Assembly
 Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



792 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Scripps Reports Loss and Will Cut Pay

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
E. W. Scripps, the media company, posted a loss for the fourth quarter Thursday and said it would cut salaries and benefits amid an industrywide advertising downturn. 
 Scripps, which owns a chain of local newspapers and TV stations, told employees Wednesday that it was cutting most salaries at newspapers and in corporate offices by 3 to 5 percent, suspending its matching 401(k) contributions and planning to freeze pensions later this year. 
 The moves are expected to save $20 million this year.
 Scripps lost $19.4 million in the latest quarter, compared with earnings of $44.7 million in the same quarter a year ago.
 The company said it did not release its final net income or earnings per share because of an accounting delay. Sales for the quarter fell 6.2 percent, to $265 million, from $282 million, but topped the average forecast of $257.1 million, based on a Thomson Reuters poll of analysts.
 ''It became apparent toward the end of the year there's nowhere to hide from the national economic crisis,'' Richard A. Boehne, chief executive at Scripps, said in a statement.
 Weak advertising sales have already forced the company to put The Rocky Mountain News, based in Denver, up for sale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD A BOEHNE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (50%) COLORADO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



793 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Marketers Soft-Pedal the Oscars This Year

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THEY gave out Oscars during previous recessions. They even gave out Oscars during each year of the Great Depression.
 But the way Madison Avenue is behaving toward the 81st annual Academy Awards, to be broadcast by ABC on Sunday, one could be excused for believing that the ceremony was actually for the Razzie Awards, which mock the worst Hollywood movies.
 Several Oscar sponsors from last year -- among them General Motors, L'Oreal and the Bertolli food line sold by Unilever -- are forgoing the program.
 Other brands like Philadelphia cream cheese, sold by Kraft Foods, and the Culver's fast-food chain are running commercials in shows before the ceremony, some on networks like E! rather than ABC. 
 And many marketers that bought commercial time during the Oscars are behaving as if they had been placed in the witness protection program, declining to identify themselves or discuss their ads before Sunday.
 That behavior is of course related to the economy, as consumers change their attitude toward conspicuous displays of spending. Something similar happened before Super Bowl XLIII on Feb. 1 as several sponsors of the NBC coverage toned down or eliminated the pregame publicity for their commercials.
 Executives at ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company, are taking a cue from the silent sponsors. In recent years, network officials talked to reporters before each show to discuss demand and rates for commercial time. This week, no one from ABC was available for such interviews.
 Trade publications have reported that ABC was cutting prices as a result of reduced demand. The sluggishness was partly because of the economy and partly because of the record low ratings for the show last year.
 It is estimated that ABC is charging about $1.4 million to $1.7 million for each 30 seconds of commercial time on Sunday, or as much as 20 percent less than last year. By comparison, the most recent rates were estimated at $1.8 million for 2008 and $1.7 million for 2007.
 Still, do not expect to see many public service announcements during the show. The Academy Awards is still prized by many marketers for several reasons, including:
 The show is one of the few so-called big TV events each year that viewers still prefer to watch live -- commercials and all.
 ''It's awards. It's the red carpet; we're absolutely happy we're there,'' said Carolyn Resar, vice president for marketing at TTI Floor Care North America in Glenwillow, Ohio, part of Techtronic Industries.
 The company's Hoover brand will make its first Oscar appearance with a spot by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The humorous spot promotes a new line called the Hoover Platinum Collection.
 As more of the prime-time TV schedule is turned over to reality series, which many advertisers disdain for their questionable or even sketchy content, the Academy Awards remains appealing to blue-chip brands that want to be associated with programming they consider prestigious.
 ''It's a great environment for us,'' said Kevin McKeon, partner and executive creative director at the New York office of StrawberryFrog. The agency produced three commercials for the show for the True North line of nuts sold by the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo.
 ''When people watch the Oscars, they're watching the best films of the year, the best stories of the year, the most inspiring,'' Mr. McKeon said. ''It's the right place for this brand to be.''
 The True North commercials present everyday Americans who, according to Regan Ebert, a vice president and general manager at Frito-Lay North America in Plano, Tex., ''have found their true north, their true passion, and inspire others.''
 One spot will reveal the winner of an essay contest sponsored by True North, which Ms. Ebert said had drawn 2,300 entries. The spot was directed by the actress (and Oscar winner) Helen Hunt. 
 The show is an effective way to reach female consumers. It is often referred to as ''the Super Bowl for women'' because in many years, more women watch the Academy Awards than the Super Bowl.
 ''The audience is a good fit with our target,'' said Caren Pasquale Seckler, group director for low-calorie colas at the Coca-Cola North America unit of the Coca-Cola Company in Atlanta, which will advertise the female-friendly brand Diet Coke with commercials from Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore.
 One Diet Coke spot, featuring the supermodel Heidi Klum, promotes heart health for women. The other features Tom Colicchio of the reality series ''Top Chef.'' The spots bring back the slogan ''Just for the taste of it,'' which helped introduce Diet Coke in 1982.
 In addition to the spots for Diet Coke, there will be three commercials for Coca-Cola, also by Wieden & Kennedy.
 Hoover, too, is counting on the large female audience to respond to the Platinum Collection line, said Danny Robinson, senior vice president and creative director at Martin. ''This is a big launch,'' he added. ''We needed to find a big venue.''
 All six commercials that the J. C. Penney Company intends to run during the Oscars will be for new clothing lines aimed at women.
 The spots, by Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, promote labels that include Allen B., from Allen B. Schwartz; Fabulosity, from Kimora Lee Simmons; and Nicole, from Nicole Miller. 
 In a nod to the economy, the spots will play up the prices for the clothing lines, which Mike Boylson, chief marketing officer at Penney in Plano, described as affordable.
 The Oscar show attracts more educated, affluent viewers than most television programs.
 ''It gets us to an audience we've been trying to get to for some time,'' said Joel Ewanick, vice president for marketing at Hyundai Motor America in Fountain Valley, Calif., part of the Hyundai Motor Company.
 To appeal to those viewers, one of the eight ads for Hyundai Motor America -- the sole automotive sponsor during the broadcast -- will feature the cellist Yo-Yo Ma. The spot promotes the 2010 Hyundai Genesis coupe.
 Among the other Hyundai commercials is one, which runs 60 seconds, that is centered on Hyundai Motor's operations in the United States and, in another nod to the economy, discusses the company's employment of tens of thousands of Americans.
 The Hyundai commercials were created by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group.
 For the first time, movie studios are being allowed to run commercials during the Oscars after the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences changed its policy that banned such spots.
 Among the studios buying commercials are Paramount, part of Viacom, for ''The Soloist,'' and Touchstone, part of Disney, for ''The Proposal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In its first commercial on the Oscars, Hoover vacuums will promote a line of products called the Hoover Platinum Collection.
The supermodel Heidi Klum is scheduled to appear in a commercial for Diet Coke that promotes cardiac health for women.
 J. C. Penney intends to run six commercials for new clothing lines aimed at women during the Academy Awards show. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CHEESE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FAST FOOD (76%); BRANDING (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); FILM (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (72%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); WITNESSES (53%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (91%); WALT DISNEY CO (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (80%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (57%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES CO LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (56%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (91%); OR (BIT) (91%); DIS (NYSE) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (80%); UNIA (AMS) (57%); UNA (BIT) (57%); UNA (AMS) (57%); UN (NYSE) (57%); ULVR (LSE) (57%); UL (NYSE) (57%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 0669 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (57%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3635 HOUSEHOLD VACUUM CLEANERS (51%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (51%)

PERSON: HEIDI KLUM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (50%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



794 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Costs Rise as Oil Prices Seem to Bottom Out

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Stabilizing energy prices halted a five-month decline in producer prices last month, the government said Thursday, but inflation remained a remote concern amid a deepening recession. 
 The Producer Price Index, which measures wholesale prices for goods ranging from food to automobiles to children's toys, rose a seasonally adjusted 0.8 percent in January after months of declines, the Labor Department reported. 
 Producer prices excluding volatile food and energy costs rose 0.4 percent. 
 Gasoline prices jumped 15 percent last month, an indication that a six-month slide in oil prices might have reached its bottom. Crude oil has fallen from its peaks of about $145 a barrel in July as a global economic downturn gained force, but prices have settled around $35 to $40 a barrel since mid-December.
 ''The sharpest declines at the commodity level seem to be behind us for now,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclay's Capital. ''In this environment where the Fed is concerned with deflation, the firm core reading should help to allay some of those fears.''
 Despite the month-over-month increase, producer prices in January were still 1 percent lower than a year ago. And the prices for intermediate goods excluding food and energy, fell 1.1 percent in January.
 Some economists discounted the importance of the larger-than-expected increase in overall producer prices, saying that they still expected inflation to slip into negative territory in 2009 as the economy contracts, unemployment rises and demand for goods and services declines.
 On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee cut its outlook for inflation this year to a range of 0.3 to 1 percent, from an October projection of 1.3 to 2 percent. 
 Energy prices for finished goods rose 3.7 percent in January from a month earlier while food prices fell 0.4 percent. The wholesale price of beef fell 10.5 percent, and was 7 percent lower for dairy products and 2.7 percent lower for roasted coffee. 
 The wholesale price of passenger cars rose a modest 0.3 percent even as American automakers experienced one of their worst sales months in decades. On Tuesday, two automakers, General Motors and Chrysler, asked the government for billions in additional bailout money. The price of light trucks rose 0.5 percent.
 The Labor Department also reported Thursday that first-time jobless claims were unchanged last week at 627,000 from the previous week's revised figures.
 The number of people continuing to receive unemployment insurance claims rose 170,000, to a record 4.99 million, for the week ending Feb. 7.
 The national unemployment rate climbed to 7.6 percent in January as the economy lost 598,000 jobs and businesses began laying off workers by the thousands. Economists expect that unemployment could reach 9 or 10 percent by the time the economy emerges from recession.
 The Fed expects unemployment to reach 8.5 to 8.8 percent in 2009, a grimmer projection than its initial estimate that unemployment this year would be 7.1 to 7.6 percent.
 Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve of Philadelphia and the private Conference Board released two sharply different outlooks on Thursday. 
 The Philadelphia Fed's survey of manufacturing conditions in the region skidded to minus 41.3 in February, its lowest point since 1990 and a stark indication of contraction in new orders, shipments and the length of the workweek. The drop was sharper than expected and underscored a decline in overseas markets for American exports.
 But the Conference Board's Leading Economic Index rose for a second month January, increasing 0.4 percent on positive indications in real money supply, consumer expectations and new orders for consumer goods. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Components: Components of the Conference Board's leading indicators index and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from Dec. to Jan.(Source: The Conference Board)
Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) Chart details line graph.
Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Labor Department) Charts detail line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); BEEF (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (60%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



795 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Remain at a Record High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The number of unemployed workers receiving unemployment benefits jumped to an all-time high near 5 million, while new jobless claims remain well above 600,000. 
 Both figures were worse than expected and new projections from the Federal Reserve show unemployment rising for the rest of the year.
 The Labor Department reported Thursday that the number of people receiving regular unemployment benefits rose to 4.99 million, the fourth consecutive week those receiving benefits have been at a record level.
 The continuing claims figure underscores the difficulty people are having finding another job, which means they are forced to receive benefits for a longer period.
 An additional 1.5 million people are receiving benefits under an extended unemployment compensation program approved by Congress, bringing the total number of people receiving unemployment benefits to 6.54 million for the week that ended on Saturday.
 New applications for unemployment benefits totaled 627,000 last week, the same as the previous week, according to the department. But that was still more than the 620,000 claims economists expected.
 It also remained near the 631,000 claims filed three weeks ago, which was the highest tally since October 1982, when the economy was emerging from a steep recession, though the labor force has grown by about half since then.
 The Fed released a new economic forecast on Wednesday that reduced its growth forecast for 2009 and increased its unemployment rate projections. The new forecast predicts that unemployment will hit between 8.5 and 8.8 percent this year, up from the current level of 7.6 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



796 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Plan Ensures Boom Sector: Oversight

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The first hiring spree to result from the $787 billion stimulus plan might not involve construction workers or teachers but government auditors, investigators and lawyers who will try to track all of the taxpayer money being spent on economic recovery. 
 With the White House and Democratic leaders in Congress under pressure to show that the stimulus money will be put to good use, the bill President Obama signed this week directs more than $350 million to oversight, virtually guaranteeing boom times in the field of government accountability. 
 The stakes, financially and politically, are huge. Republicans who criticized the stimulus plan as a bloated spending bill have already announced a ''stimulus watch'' program, intended to seize on any signs of waste or mismanagement and turning them into ammunition for the 2010 elections. 
 But just as with the billions for schools, infrastructure projects and state aid, the stimulus will channel so much money so fast to some two dozen inspector-general offices, as well as a new Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, that it might be difficult to spend it all wisely. 
 And some experts warn that the government might now need auditors for its auditors and new overseers for inspectors general, who typically answer directly to Congress. 
 The $350 million for oversight dwarfs the $50 million that Congress provided last fall to create a special inspector general's office to oversee the $700 billion financial system bailout. The new stimulus package includes roughly $253 million for inspectors general, $84 million for the transparency board, and an additional $25 million for the Government Accountability Office. The general perception that the Bush administration mishandled the financial bailout has only added pressure for oversight of the stimulus. 
 David M. Walker, former head of the Government Accountability Office, said setting strict conditions on the use of stimulus money ahead of time would be more important than increasing scrutiny by auditors after the fact. 
 ''If you don't have appropriate conditions set up front, you are going to end up having a lot of disappointments,'' Mr. Walker said, pointing to the financial-system bailout as an example. 
 ''After spending $350 billion where we still don't know where all the money went, people are asking, 'Well, what did we get for it?' You ought to be able to say: 'This is where it went. This is what it was for. This is what they did with it. And this is what we think the impact was.' ''
 Finding qualified auditors and investigators to supervise such a vast increase in government spending might be a challenge in itself, and some experts on government accountability programs warned that spending more on oversight did not always guarantee better results. 
 ''A lot of times Congress thinks that waving around the term 'inspector general' is just the magic potion that will fix everything without always thinking it through,'' said Beverley C. Lumpkin, an investigator with the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group, who has studied inspector general offices. 
 Because the stimulus law requires tight accounting of the money, including the posting of expenditures to a public Web site, www.recovery.gov, some inspectors general say they are legally obligated to lead by example and will have to post every job that they fill and every investigation they undertake -- an accounting of the accounting. 
 Todd J. Zinser, the inspector general at the Commerce Department, said he would potentially add as many as 30 employees to an existing staff of about 120, using $16 million provided to his office in the stimulus -- $10 million to oversee a program to expand broadband Internet service and $6 million for other programs. 
 The money amounts to a huge increase for an office whose total 2008 budget was roughly $23 million. 
 Mr. Zinser said that most of the new positions would be in the agency's four field offices, and that he was planning to carefully track the stimulus money used by his own office in the same way as the stimulus spending by the Commerce Department as a whole, on initiatives like new broadband Internet service. 
 In some cases, the oversight offices face the same challenges as those confronting local and state agencies as they plan to expend stimulus money, trying to figure out how quickly they can hire staff, whether they should hire permanent employees who might have to be laid off down the line or enlist independent contractors on a temporary basis. 
 Some Republicans complained that by naming only executive branch officials to the transparency board, the Democratic administration had shut them out of the oversight process. 
 Other lawmakers, including Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, have questioned whether the stimulus law creates new bureaucracy that will undermine the independence of individual inspectors general.
 Thomas E. Gavin, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, said the administration was committed to rigorous oversight. ''The president has made clear that the Recovery Act is to be the most transparent, accountable legislation ever,'' Mr. Gavin said. 
 Several inspectors general said the speed at which the White House hopes to disburse the stimulus money posed heightened risks. 
 Daniel R. Levinson, the inspector general at the Department of Health and Human Services, said tracking the agency's $700 billion budget would require each auditor to oversee about $1 billion in spending -- an impossible task. But careful deployment can provide effective oversight, Mr. Levinson said. 
 ''You make sure that you are avoiding the largest financial problems and at the same time are providing a sentinel effect, conveying a sense that you are on the job, you are policing the field,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AUDITS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



797 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Obama Bans Gimmicks, And Deficit Will Rise

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For his first annual budget next week, President Obama has banned four accounting gimmicks that President George W. Bush used to make deficit projections look smaller. The price of more honest bookkeeping: A budget that is $2.7 trillion deeper in the red over the next decade than it would otherwise appear, according to administration officials.
 The new accounting involves spending on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Medicare reimbursements to physicians and the cost of disaster responses. 
 But the biggest adjustment will deal with revenues from the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system enacted in 1969 to prevent the wealthy from using tax shelters to avoid paying any income tax. 
 Even with bigger deficit projections, the Obama administration will put the country on ''a sustainable fiscal course'' by the end of Mr. Obama's term, Peter R. Orszag, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said Thursday in an interview. Mr. Orszag did not provide details of how the administration would reduce a deficit expected to reach at least $1.5 trillion this year. 
 Mr. Obama's banishment of the gimmicks, which have been widely criticized, is in keeping with his promise to run a more transparent government. 
 Fiscal sleight of hand has long been a staple of federal budgets, giving rise to phrases like ''rosy scenario'' and ''magic asterisks.''
 The $2.7 trillion in additional deficit spending, Mr. Orszag said, is ''a huge amount of money that would just be kind of a magic asterisk in previous budgets.'' 
 ''The president prefers to tell the truth,'' he said, ''rather than make the numbers look better by pretending.''
 Recent presidents and Congresses were complicit in the ploy involving the alternative minimum tax. While that tax was intended to hit the wealthiest taxpayers, it was not indexed for inflation. That fact and the tax breaks of the Bush years have meant that it could affect millions of middle-class taxpayers. 
 If they paid it, the government would get billions of dollars more in tax revenues, which is what past budgets have projected. But it would also probably mean a taxpayer revolt. So each year the White House and Congress agree to ''patch'' the alternative tax for inflation, and the extra revenues never materialize.
 Nearly $70 billion of the just-enacted $787 billion economic recovery plan reflected the bookkeeping cost of adjusting the alternative tax for a year.
 The White House budget office calculates that over the next decade, the tax would add $1.2 trillion in revenues. But Mr. Obama is not counting those revenues, and he is adding $218 billion to the 10-year deficit projections to reflect the added interest the government would pay for its extra debt. 
 As for war costs, Mr. Bush included little or none in his annual military budgets, instead routinely asking Congress for supplemental appropriations during the year. Mr. Obama will include cost projections for every year through the 2019 fiscal year to cover ''overseas military contingencies'' -- nearly $500 billion over 10 years.
 For Medicare, Mr. Bush routinely budgeted less than actual costs for payments to physicians, although he and Congress regularly waived a law mandating the lower reimbursements for fear that doctors would quit serving beneficiaries in protest. 
 Mr. Obama will budget $401 billion over 10 years for higher costs and interest on the debt. 
 He will also budget $273 billion in that period for natural disasters. Every year the government pays billions for disaster relief, but presidents and lawmakers have long ignored budget reformers' calls for a contingency account to reflect that certainty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MEDICARE (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); PETER ORSZAG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



798 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Hail Parts of Bill That Few of Them Supported

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Republican lawmakers nearly unanimously resisted supporting the president's $787 billion stimulus package, but what has proved irresistible is the temptation to take credit for at least a few of those billions. 
 Despite criticizing the bill as wasteful, a handful of Republican members of the House and Senate have found some provisions to cheer. 
 Just hours after voting against the bill on the House floor last week, Representative John L. Mica of Florida issued news releases lauding the inclusion of $8 billion for high-speed rail projects around the nation. Mr. Mica said the bill would also help pay for a commuter train project in his Central Florida district.
 ''If we could put a man on the moon, we should be able to move people from city to city quickly instead of wasting time on a congested highway,'' said Mr. Mica, the ranking Republican on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ''I applaud President Obama's recognition that high-speed rail should be part of America's future.''
 Jennifer Crider, a spokeswoman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, called the unlikely chorus of praise from Mr. Mica and other Republican lawmakers ''the height of hypocrisy.''
 Rusty Roberts, chief of staff to Mr. Mica, disagreed. ''Certainly it's possible to oppose the entire bill on principle and favor certain sections of it,'' Mr. Roberts said.
 Representative Don Young of Alaska, for example, praised the stimulus as ''a victory for the Alaska Native contracting program and other Alaska small-business owners.'' And Representative Leonard Lance of New Jersey, after touring a flood-control project in his district that could receive stimulus financing, pronounced it ''shovel ready.'' 
 Representative Peter Hoekstra of Michigan sounded almost giddy on Wednesday in a post on the microblogging Web site Twitter: ''If you know of someone thinking of buying first home, now may be the time. Stimulus incentive is very generous! Up to 8k! Check it out.''
 Mr. Hoekstra, who also voted against the bill, appeared less optimistic last week. ''House passed spending bill. I don't believe it will work,'' Mr. Hoekstra wrote on Twitter. ''Hope we're wrong but I don't think so.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); TRAINS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); FLOOD CONTROL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN L MICA (79%); PETER HOEKSTRA (79%); LEONARD LANCE (59%); DON YOUNG (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



799 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Obama Makes Overtures to Canada Prime Minister

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Ian Austen contributed reporting.

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
President Obama charted a delicate course with Canada on Thursday, using the first foreign trip of his presidency to ease tensions over trade policy, climate change and the war in Afghanistan -- all the while basking in his celebrity status in a nation where his approval ratings are so high that a local bakery named a pastry after him. 
 The quick day trip marked a striking shift in United States-Canada relations from those under President Bush. If Canadians were no fans of Mr. Bush, their conservative leader, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, found in him a kindred philosophical spirit. 
 Mr. Obama, on the other hand, is so popular here that he used a news conference on Thursday to thank Canadian volunteers who crossed the border to help his campaign. At the same time, he sought to soothe a skeptical Mr. Harper on policy matters like whether to reopen the North American Free Trade Agreement -- Mr. Obama suggested doing so as a candidate but has since recalibrated his stance -- as well as a ''Buy America'' provision in the $787 billion economic recovery package he just signed into law. 
 ''I provided Prime Minister Harper an assurance that I want to grow trade, not contract it,'' Mr. Obama said during the brief, four-question news conference with Mr. Harper in the grand Gothic-style center block of the Canadian Parliament. ''And I don't think that there was anything in the recovery package that was adverse to that goal.''
 The prime minister responded by giving the president a bit of a lecture, remarking that Canada's stimulus package ''actually removed duties on some imported goods.'' 
 ''If we pursue stimulus packages the goal of which is only to benefit ourselves, or to benefit ourselves at the expense of others, we will deepen the world recession, not solve it,'' Mr. Harper said.
 The exchange was an awkward moment in a visit that was intended by both leaders to emphasize their countries' friendship and longstanding bonds. After slipping up by nearly referring to Ottawa as Iowa, Mr. Obama went on to say that he had a Canadian brother-in-law and that two of his top aides were Canadian.
 Mr. Harper, for his part, responded to a question about border security by saying that ''threats to the United States are threats to Canada.'' It was a powerful sound bite that appeared to be the final word of the news conference, until Mr. Obama jumped in to get one last word of his own, saying, ''We have no doubt about Canada's commitment to security in the United States.''
 The leaders announced what they called ''a clean energy dialogue'' to work out their differences on environmental issues, among the thorniest between the United States and Canada, and engage in joint research on technology to reduce carbon emissions. 
 The United States is the biggest importer of Canadian oil, and Mr. Harper has been trying to win an agreement to exempt Canada's vast tracts of oil sands, which may contain up to 173 billion barrels of recoverable oil bound into sand and clay, from any new American environmental regulations. Mr. Obama is under intense pressure from environmentalists to resist that effort.
 ''We're not going to solve these problems overnight,'' the president said.
 His statements were just ambiguous enough to satisfy both American environmentalists and the Canadian oil industry. Dave Collyer, the president of the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, called the announcement ''an important framework that strikes the right balance and sets a pragmatic approach.'' Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, the director of the Canada program at the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington, called the dialogue ''a logical first step,'' adding, ''What we heard him say is that addressing global warming is a top priority.'' 
 Regarding Afghanistan, Mr. Obama said he ''did not press the prime minister on any additional commitments'' of troops, despite his own decision this week to increase the American presence there by 17,000. In his first public comments on the troop increase, Mr. Obama said he had ordered it ''because I felt it was necessary to stabilize the situation there in advance of the elections coming up.''
 If Mr. Obama is not entirely simpatico with Mr. Harper, he may have more in common with Canada's opposition leader, Michael Ignatieff of the Liberal Party. Mr. Ignatieff is an author (like Mr. Obama) and a former director of a human rights center at Harvard, where he worked alongside Samantha Power, who advised Mr. Obama on foreign policy during his campaign. The two had a brief meeting at the airport on Mr. Obama's way out of town.
 By taking his first foreign trip to Canada, Mr. Obama is following in a tradition for United States presidents, including Ronald Reagan, who made Canada his first visit and, four years later, charmed some Canadians and horrified others by singing ''When Irish Eyes Are Smiling'' on St. Patrick's Day with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. 
 Mr. Obama, by contrast, did not have to sing to attract attention; from the moment he stepped off Air Force One and into the snowy Ottawa landscape on Thursday, he commanded nonstop television coverage. Thousands of people stood outside the Parliament buildings just to catch a glimpse of him; he obliged with a quick wave.
 Indeed, if there was any complaint about Mr. Obama's visit, it was that he had planned no public appearance with average Canadians. The White House fixed that at the end of the day, however, as Mr. Obama made a surprise stop at the ByWard Market, a renovated farmers' market in an historical stretch of Ottawa. He bought a key ring with Canadian dollars, then tried to pay for two maple leaf cookies, but his money was refused. And at a kiosk outside the market, he picked up a Beaver Tail, the fried, flattened doughnut that served as the prototype for the Obama Tail, which a local bakery had named after him. 
 He politely avoided eating the cholesterol-laden confection, promising to do so once he got back to the White House. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada in Ottawa on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); BAKERIES (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); STEPHEN HARPER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009



800 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Weighs Rehiring Top Aide Caught in Scandal

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson has begun paving the way for the return of his former chief adviser, Charles J. O'Byrne, who resigned four months ago in a tax scandal that proved deeply embarrassing to the administration.
 In recent days, Mr. Paterson has privately sounded out trusted political operatives and state officials about the wisdom of bringing Mr. O'Byrne back, according to two Democrats familiar with the discussions.
 ''He is exasperated by bad press and by the perception of an administration in disarray,'' one of the Democrats said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the governor's personnel decisions. ''He's turning to the one person he believes can get things back on track.'' 
 In response to a reporter's question on Thursday, Mr. Paterson described himself as open to the idea of rehiring Mr. O'Byrne. The governor's response amounted to a tacit admission of the strain and disquiet that have rattled the administration in recent weeks. 
 Some allies of the governor believe that Mr. O'Byrne's return could help bring stability to the governor's office, despite the fact that it will resurrect, at least temporarily, the controversy that erupted over Mr. O'Byrne's failure to pay income taxes for five years and forced him to resign.
 Mr. Paterson said on Thursday that few could deny that Mr. O'Byrne had done an ''excellent job'' serving the administration, and said he should be forgiven for his tax problems.
 ''Charles O'Byrne made a mistake,'' he told reporters outside the Harvard Club in Manhattan, where he was attending a symposium on the economy. ''It's one we can't condone, but he paid for it, and he underwent some pretty severe public criticism for it.''
 Mr. Paterson then said that he had not discussed the idea with Mr. O'Byrne, who has paid off his tax debt of nearly $300,000, but would like to. ''It's certainly a conversation that I would have,'' he said. ''I think people make mistakes. And, you know, they deserve a second chance.'' 
 Mr. O'Byrne declined to comment.
 It was unclear what would happen to William J. Cunningham III, Mr. O'Byrne's replacement, if Mr. O'Byrne returns.
 As far as second acts go, Mr. O'Byrne's would be one of the more dramatic in New York politics in recent years. 
 His departure from the Paterson administration in October was a low point for the governor, who at the time enjoyed overwhelming popular support and the strong backing of Democratic legislators in Albany.
 Mr. O'Byrne's resignation came days after The New York Post reported that he had failed to pay state and federal income taxes for five years beginning in 2001.
 Mr. Paterson initially stood behind Mr. O'Byrne. But the situation spun out of the governor's control when Mr. O'Byrne's lawyer offered a widely ridiculed explanation, saying he was afflicted by ''late-filing syndrome,'' a condition that he said was brought on by depression and made it difficult for Mr. O'Byrne to fill out his returns. 
 Mr. O'Byrne, a lawyer by training and a former Jesuit priest, had played the role of gatekeeper to the governor. 
 Moreover, he was someone whom the governor, who is legally blind, trusted to tell him whose hand he was about to shake at a reception or what issues he was likely to be asked about during a conference call. 
 When Mr. O'Byrne spoke, people in Albany said, it was with the authority of the governor's voice.
 Mr. O'Byrne, whose official title was secretary to the governor, was at the center of the intricate system that Mr. Paterson and his closest aides established to allow the governor to work efficiently. 
 Because Mr. Paterson cannot read e-mail messages or take notes, he receives all his briefings orally and must commit much of the information he receives to memory, an extremely time-consuming process.
 When Mr. Paterson became governor, Mr. O'Byrne kept a tight rein on his schedule. He ensured that only a small number of trusted aides, all of them well practiced at delivering clear, precise briefings, met daily with Mr. Paterson.
 A workaholic known to rise before dawn and work late into the night, Mr. O'Byrne was also the central point of contact for the hordes of lobbyists, lawmakers and union leaders who required cultivating or convincing. 
 He made so many phone calls each day that a dedicated switchboard was created in the executive chamber to manage Mr. O'Byrne's ever-lengthening call list.
 The possibility that Mr. O'Byrne could return to his old job drew criticism from Republicans in Albany, who used Mr. O'Byrne's tax issues to link Mr. Paterson to the tax problems that have embarrassed the Obama administration.
 ''It speaks to a troubling pattern among Democrats in Washington, as well as New York,'' Dean G. Skelos, the Senate minority leader, said in a written statement.
 ''I guess the real message here is that Democrats have no problem raising taxes, just paying them.'' 
 Mr. Paterson even surprised some Democrats with his remarks. 
 ''It would be a very dramatic move,'' said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, who represents parts of the Upper West Side and the Bronx. ''But if that helps everything work right, that's fine with me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson last year with Charles J. O'Byrne in Albany.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); INCOME TAX (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (84%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

 
