

1 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 3866 words

HEADLINE: A Spaghetti Dress for World Peace 

BYLINE:  By Lynn Hirschberg; Lynn Hirschberg is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Miguel Adrover, who has the sad knowing eyes and long flowing hair of Jesus, is hoping to be resurrected. Two years ago, he was the darling of the fashion world, the brightest design star anyone had seen in years. Now he is on the verge of burning out. Back then, the media and buyers alike were dazzled by his sophisticated tailoring paired with witty takes on famous labels. He took a Burberry raincoat, turned it inside out and reconceived it as a dress; a torn and artfully dirty INY T-shirt was augmented with puffy sleeves. It was the familiar made absurd and, somehow, beautiful.
 Shown in 2000, Adrover's breakthrough collection -- which was only his second collection altogether -- was the kind of brand-name commentary that excites the fashion world. It loved the hip, in-joke streetiness of the clothes, the idea that it had discovered somebody who was saying something new about fashion (although it wasn't entirely clear what, exactly, he was saying). And though Adrover is Spanish, he showed in New York, not Paris or Milan. With an immigrant's gaze, he was making clothes that both mocked and embraced America. 
 "Everybody was in love with me," Adrover says, standing next to a rack of clothes in his fourth-floor walk-up loft on the edge of Chinatown. It's a crisp October day, and Adrover is dressed in carefully assembled layers, all in shades of navy blue, which is his favorite color. His jeans ride low on his hips, exposing the elastic top of his boxers. His slightly shrunken navy-and-white-striped shirt is covered by a cashmere sweater-vest the color of faded denim. Adrover's hair is braided halfway down his back, and his hands, which are long and expressive, are accented by inch-long nails on both pinkies. "It's a gypsy thing," he explains. Like the clothes Adrover designs, his look is a mixture of the rough and the classic.
"I'm interested in clothes, not fashion," Adrover says, lighting a Marlboro Light. "Fashion is superficial, momentary. For me, clothes need to be timeless. Fashion says, Here is something for the next six months. Why? When somebody makes something for only the next six months, they don't have anything to say. They just want people to consume."
This sort of talk helps to explain why the fashion world has turned on Adrover; he is decrying the foundation of their business. Designers are expected to create at least two collections every year to fulfill the latest desires of fickle consumers. Some shops want new merchandise every eight weeks. Jeffrey Kalinsky, who owns Jeffrey, an upscale store in Manhattan, says: "We're in the fashion business. People are attracted to the new."
Adrover's ascent to the heights of fashion was followed by an equally rapid descent. During his up period, Women's Wear Daily put him on its cover, calling him "New York's New Star." He signed a multi-million-dollar deal with the Pegasus Apparel Group to produce and distribute his clothes. And he moved from his dank basement apartment to a lavish loft on the Bowery, where he hired 30 people. He drove around Manhattan (without a license) in a Jaguar that Pegasus paid for. "It was dark gray," Adrover says, sounding delighted. "Now, I am back to my bike." He laughs softly. "But what was important to me then and what is important to me now is the same: the clothes. I want my clothes to lead a revolution. I'm trying to see society in different cultures and incorporate that into my clothes."
It was in September 2001 that Adrover's star fell. Pegasus refused to commit any more money and then dropped him. On Sept. 9 he had presented a show, grandly titled the Utopia Collection, that many critics found politically troublesome. Just as Adrover had offered riffs on iconic Western fashion, he was now embracing another silhouette -- that of Islamic culture. The drapey clothes had an almost ecclesiastical elegance, but they also evoked the strict dress code of the Taliban. Adrover's timing could not have been worse. Two days later, the twin towers were struck. The designer's enthusiasm for Islamic dress made him seem politically obtuse or, worse, sympathetic to the enemy. Adrover's creative inspiration appeared to be the same Islamic regime that fostered terrorism. 
Politics and clothes can be awkward companions. Of course, many fashion trends have grown out of politically charged cultural movements: think of hippie chic in the 70's and grunge in the 90's. Clothes are a handy way for like-minded people to identify one another. But Adrover was engaged in a knottier project. He was trying to educate the Western consumer about the third world. He had been inspired by trips to Egypt and photographs of Arab villages, which he put on the wall of his studio. "They were still there on Sept. 11," Adrover recalls. "In Spain, the papers wrote that my studio was connected to bin Laden." He shakes his head. "But look at this," he continues, taking a coat from the rack. "Does this look like the clothes of a terrorist?"
The coat is simply cut with geometric pieces of colored cotton hand-appliqued in a mosaic pattern. It looks like a stained-glass window from a mosque transposed onto a dress. Adrover pulls out another coat, made of white pique. He rubbed an aquamarine dye into the fabric and matching dress, adding more color into the pocket area (where it would normally show more wear and tear). The effect is watery -- the crisp pique is softened by the irregular stains of pale blue. He then dismisses a long silk gown ("We made the spaghetti dress to sell more") and shows off a gauzy peasant skirt that is sewn in intricately constructed layers. "We washed this in ashes and water," he says, showing off the subtle brown stains that make the skirt look antique. "This was all sewn by hand." Another skirt, which was made out of a donkey's saddle, is embroidered in a diamond pattern and hemmed in heavy tassels. "The construction on this one is crazy," Adrover says. "I'm not sure we could copy this one. We could, maybe, make 30 of the mosaic coats. But that is not bad. It's not necessary to mass-produce clothes. They should be special."
Despite an order of $1.5 million from a Japanese company, the Utopia Collection was never produced. The clothes are beautiful, if too restrained for America's sexed-up taste. The dresses are caftanlike, and the skirts are long and loose. There are touches in Adrover's clothes that you only see on couture garments: hand-sewn labels, silk linings, bone buttons. There is enormous attention to small details. One flouncy, Jamaican-style dress took three weeks to construct: where another designer might have used rickrack, Adrover's team painstakingly folded fabric into triangles to decorate the bodice of the dress. The care in creation is evident. True to Adrover's philosophy, these clothes seem timeless.
To others, they seemed foolhardy. "Miguel is a great designer, but he has no idea about business," says a former Pegasus employee, who, like most of the fashion community, insists on being anonymous on the subject of Adrover. "Pegasus wasn't a patron of the arts. They were not putting up a museum wing for Miguel Adrover. We needed him to listen, to be responsible. The fashion world is one part art and one part business. Without one, you don't have the other. Unless Miguel wants to make clothes to hang on his walls, he needs to think about business too. And that doesn't mean political statements. It means clothes that people want to wear at a price they can afford. For Miguel, as brilliant as he is, that may not be possible."
Adrover walks into the living-room area of the loft followed by Peter Hidalgo, one of his unpaid design assistants. The room, like the rest of the loft, is decorated with mismatched furniture that somehow fits together. There are velvet couches that Adrover found on the street and a piano that came with the apartment. Large plants stand in the corners, and a richly detailed Egyptian coat hangs from the ceiling. Hidalgo, along with 30 or so other disciples, worked on Adrover's most recent collection, titled Citizen of the World, which he showed this September in New York. It was a remarkable show that incorporated Adrover's multicultural themes with his usual expert tailoring. Hidalgo worked on one bias-cut 1940's-style dress for almost four months. "It took three days to drape the dress," he says, "a week to sew stripes on each piece of the dress and then another week to connect the pieces." 
Adrover lights another cigarette. "We can only make one or two of those," he says. 
Hidalgo nods. "Miguel is inspirational," he says. "No one works this way any more."
Whether he's been rich or poor, Adrover has always been surrounded by a devoted throng. For this collection, on which he spent $50,000 of his own money, the last of his Pegasus savings, assistants slept underneath the design tables in the other room. Sebastian Pons, Adrover's longtime business partner and design director, moved into a cubbyhole and worked around the clock. 
Last summer, Mei Zou, a pattern maker, worked for Adrover for free each night after working for pay all day with Narciso Rodriguez. "Have you noticed that Narciso's clothes are much better now?" Adrover says. "That's because of Mei. When I lost my money, Narciso took my pattern makers and sewers too." Rodriguez, for his part, says he is pleased to work with Zou, but dismisses the idea that he stole her.
"The same thing happened with Zac Posen, who's now everybody's favorite new designer," Adrover adds. "Actually, most of my people came here after they worked with those others. It's like a refugee camp here. We were all refugees from fashion." Adrover pauses as Hidalgo listens. "People get afraid when the vocabulary changes," he says. "I wanted to say something about the situation in the world right now. A lot of people tell me it's not time for philosophy; it's time for business. But I think they are wrong. Our clothes can give people hope."
While it is easy to embrace the beauty of Adrover's clothes, it is difficult to see what a $2,500 dress illuminates about racial inequality or global unrest. Yes, Adrover's latest collection showed a woman draped in the United Nations logo, and yes, his clothes often feature religious totems. But Adrover's work is strongest when he incorporates motifs from other cultures into his own aesthetic -- just as Yves Saint Laurent did with Morocco. When his approach becomes too literal, his clothes became polemical costumes.
"I want this to be a revolution," he repeats. This is his mantra, and it seems to inspire his troops. "With clothes, you have the power to affect society. People see what you're wearing, and they say, I want to be like that. I see other designers' ad campaigns, and I think, Is this a philosophy? Is it a philosophy to show a girl on her knees before a man? Is this intellectual? I don't want to say it's not good to show a miniskirt with long legs, but sex is so exploited. Sex isn't exciting anymore. Designers need to show people how to feel something again, how to see the world."
Not only does Adrover dislike his colleagues' advertising, he questions their goal of selling to the masses. "I want my clothes to be produced," he says. "But some of them will probably be expensive. People say to me, 'People without money cannot buy your clothes.' But it doesn't matter. People don't have to own them. When people just look at my clothes, they are changed. These big companies, with their multi-million-dollar businesses, are just trying to make a profit. They are trying to manipulate people by saying, If you don't have that bag, you will not be in fashion."
Adrover looks up at the coat hanging on the wall. He found the fabric, a painted tarp, on a trip to Luxor. Adrover fashioned it into an elegant but tattered robelike coat. "That coat shows you something of the world," he says. "That is what clothes can do."
It was another coat that made Adrover famous. Soon after Quentin Crisp, the bohemian humorist, died in 1999, Adrover, who lived nearby, took the ticking off Crisp's mattress and tailored it into a town coat. The stains on the mattress entranced him. "Life is hard," he shrugs. "You have to make that beautiful." Although everyone who worked on the coat developed a rash, the Quentin Crisp Invention made clear that Adrover was a daring talent. 
The coat was shown in his attention-grabbing February 2000 show. Adrover seemed to have sprung out of nowhere. The son of an almond farmer from Majorca, Adrover, who is now 36, had no formal training. He hadn't apprenticed with a more experienced designer, and he hadn't attended any sort of college. In 1991, when he was 25, he moved to New York and started selling T-shirts under the label DUGG, and by 1997, he and a partner opened a boutique in the East Village called Horn.
"I fell into fashion by accident," Adrover says. "But I always had a passion for clothes." In 1999, Adrover decided to show his first collection. He described it as "the story of a Brazilian woman who is kicked out of her rain-forest home by loggers. She migrates to Mexico, where she joins the Zapatista rebels, and then to New York, where she winds up homeless, wearing a resewn American flag."
The show opened with a naked girl, standing in a field of bamboo. She then dresses, but barely. In the show's most alarming moment, a model, outfitted in a simple white blouse, carried a shotgun slung across her body, her face half-covered by a paisley scarf. "Circumstances can make people violent," Adrover explains.
Few people saw this first collection, but it was the next one, which featured the Quentin Crisp coat and the Burberry dress, that turned Adrover into a sensation. Stephen Ruzow, the former president and C.O.O. of Donna Karan International who was then heading Pegasus, signed Adrover up immediately. Pegasus also had deals with the designers Pamela Dennis (known for her evening wear) and Daryl K (known for her pants). The company was modeled on conglomerates like LVMH, which own several fashion houses, including Givency, Christian Dior, Christian Lacroix and Louis Vuitton. It was formed in early 2000 with the backing of a $300 million equity fund. "The idea was to acquire businesses with great possibilities for expansion," says a former Pegasus employee, who, like all top Pegasus employees (including Adrover), has signed a confidentiality agreement. "Pegasus would have separate showrooms for each designer, but the back of the house -- manufacturing, distribution, advertising -- would be the same. That saves money." LVMH and the Gucci Group had used this approach, but virtually no one had done it with American brands. 
For fashion, especially high-end fashion, to be successful, it has to be produced and sold in volume. The economics are simple: if Adrover hopes a dress will sell at retail for $2,500 (and many of his dresses cost more), he will offer it to the store for $1,100. If the dress costs him $400 to produce in terms of fabric and labor, he will make $700 in profit. If Adrover produces 100 dresses -- an output that would not be easy to achieve on his own, considering his methods -- the yield will still be only $70,000. After paying for rent and other expenses, he could easily be left with nothing.
When he signed with Pegasus in April 2000, Adrover was eager to bring his production costs down and sell more clothes. "I thought, We are going to make money out of the dream," he recalls. "I was naive."
A few months later, Adrover showed his Bank Collection, which featured uniforms, some accessorized with the badges of a Vietnam veteran. His most accessible collection, it was entirely saleable. Pegasus pushed the stores to buy. "We may have pushed too hard," a former Pegasus executive says. "But Miguel was being heralded as the Yves Saint Laurent of American fashion. We wanted to capitalize on that enthusiasm."
Unfortunately, customers didn't know Adrover's name, and the merchandise lingered. The reception of his next collection, Meet East, further underscored the capriciousness of the fashion world. The show was held at the Essex Street Market on the Lower East Side on a freezing Sunday night in February 2001. Things did not run smoothly. The show was disorganized, and Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, saw the throng waiting to get in and decided not to bother.
Inspired by his trip to Luxor, the show was styled to look authentically Egyptian. Individual pieces were lovely, but Adrover's models looked as if they were trapped in a repressive culture. Their heads, and sometimes their faces, were covered by shawls and scarves; their bodies were swathed in layers of clothing. One model was supposed to walk a sheep down the catwalk, but the sheep stumbled off the runway. "I don't know why Miguel messed with that sheep," Jeffrey Kalisnky sighs. "That evening was disturbing. When you're as talented as Miguel, you don't need to make a statement with a sheep."
Discussing the show, Adrover restates his view of fashion as an educational tool. "I wanted people to learn about other cultures," he says. "That was the first time people mentioned the Taliban in connection with my clothes. The American fashion world was comfortable with these references. It's interesting -- you can show some things and not others."
Pegasus was quickly becoming disenchanted. "That Messiah thing he's got going does not translate into business," an executive says. Some fashion insiders claim that Pegasus was mismanaged, that it did not have a solid financial plan. It was too hasty in trying to convert Adrover's press into profits. Says Sebastian Pons, who handles Adrover's business: "They only talked about selling. We had a philosophy, and they didn't want to talk about that."
Shortly after the Utopia show in September 2001, Pegasus told Adrover that it was ending their relationship. "Everything went down the sink," Adrover recalls. "I would have preferred to grow much more slowly, but Pegasus wanted to go fast, like Coca-Cola. And then I showed Utopia, and things only got worse. They called me a terrorist. It was a nightmare. This city is so racist -- they didn't look at what we were trying to achieve with the clothes, what we were trying to say about understanding other cultures."
Adrover pauses. "Some people get confused by the political side of my clothes. But clothes should be like art -- they should surprise you, educate you. People shouldn't get upset if I say that. They should just see the clothes. Then they'd understand: fashion will fail you, but a message will give you power."
Adrover and Hidalgo are eating paella and tapas at La Nacional, a restaurant on 14th Street. "When you come to America," Adrover says, "Spanish people give you this address. Only Spanish people know about this place." The restaurant has simple wood plank tables and a television is turned to a Spanish-language station.
"I am back to being broke," Adrover says. "I am two months behind on my rent. We were so hot -- life is unfair. People have millions of dollars out there, and they don't want to support our company." He takes a bite of octopus. "I'm a little angry about it."
After Sept. 11, Adrover moved out of his plush Bowery apartment, put his stuff in storage in Brooklyn and spent three months in a country few Americans were then visiting: Egypt. He bought a house and a horse there. "I was thinking how to continue after the attack. In Egypt, I realized I needed to go back to work. I wanted everyone to realize how wrong they were."
Back in New York, he reunited his team and began designing the Citizen of the World show. "It wasn't easy," Adrover says. "Big people closed the door in my face. They think I'm difficult! The fashion business has a lot of stupid attitude. Creativity is less important to them than whether or not you show up at their stupid parties."
Adrover's grandiosity is both compelling and frustrating. His belief in clothes as a tool for political change is appealingly heartfelt, but his reluctance to accept the practical aspects of the business is exasperating. Citizen of the World features stunning clothes that many women, of all ages, would love to wear. There are sinuous beaded dresses, crisp sharkskin suits and a wonderful striped skirt that flounces from the hip. Yet Adrover still lacks financial backing, and as of early November, no stores have purchased the clothes.
Adrover pours a glass of wine. "Do you know this comic named Messing?" he asks. "She's hosting the VH1/Vogue Fashion Awards. Debra Messing." Adrover says this as if the name of the "Will and Grace" star is not worth his breath. "Vogue called and wanted her to wear one of my suits for the award show. I don't have a TV so I looked her up. And I thought, No, she cannot wear my suit. It's not as if she's Charlotte Rampling. She could wear the suit."
Adrover doesn't seem to care that his message, be it sartorial or political, could be communicated to millions of people through the person of Debra Messing or that cooperating with a Vogue request when you're dead broke might be a smart move. "Not the suit," he repeats. "That is my trademark piece from the collection. Not on that . . . comic."
In two days, Adrover says, he is going to Majorca to meet representatives of Lottusse, a Spanish shoe and accessories manufacturer. He hopes it will provide some of the needed capital for production. Adrover is also meeting with the Museum of Modern Art in Barcelona, which wants to do a retrospective of his work. "Six rooms with 10 or so pieces in each room," Adrover exclaims. "That's very exciting. It opens the door to Europe."
More than exhibits, what Adrover really needs is a strong business partner. Most successful designers are teamed with equally passionate and committed businessmen. Marc Jacobs has Robert Duffy, Tom Ford has Domenico De Sole and so on.
"We are rebuilding," Adrover says. "This show was not just about a fashion show. It was about a change in perspective, about believing in the collection and in New York."
Hidalgo, who has been silent, says, "You could always take another fashion house."
Adrover shakes his head. "I find that kind of funny. When you're trying to keep alive something that is dead, it's wrong. Why don't people embrace new designers? People ask me who is going to be the next Calvin Klein, and I say, I don't think we need more underwear advertising. Society needs something else."
Adrover's impracticality and stubborn idealism would be insufferable if he were not so talented. His clothes redeem his self-righteousness, although clothes should be worn. Adrover would like a global business, but he has to first find a backer who will believe in him the way he believes in himself. "I would like my philosophy to be all over the world," he says. "That is my dream."
He looks up at the television. It is showing highlights from John Galliano's spring collection. Adrover is riveted; his expression changes from childlike fascination to mild disgust. "Look at those skirts," he says, noting how short they are. "It's just more fashion. Where is the philosophy? Where are the ideas?" Turning his back on the TV, Adrover takes a bite of paella. "I am needed," he says. "The world needs me." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Thumbprint suit from his recent Citizen of the World collection. (Richard Burbridge); Left: A suit from his Meet East collection in February 2001. Right: An outfit from his 1999 show. (Left, Dan Lecca. Right: from Miguel Adrover.); Left: The coat made from Quentin Crisp's mattress ticking. Middle: A patchwork coat designed for last spring but never produced. Right: His inside-out Burberry dress. (Dan Lecca) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



2 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 3791 words

HEADLINE: How the Disposable Sofa Conquered America 

BYLINE:  By John Leland; John Leland is a Style reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
Sitting in a modern, uncluttered office in Almhult, Sweden, earlier this year, a woman named Josephine Rydberg-Dumont advanced a global theory of home. "We're ready for modernism now," she said. "When it first came, it was for the few. Now it is for the many. You value things that don't bog you down, that are easy to take care of." Rydberg-Dumont, 47, is the managing director of Ikea of Sweden, the creative nexus for what has grown to a $10.8 billion worldwide operation. Her office had no desk or computer, just a big Ikea table and a set of blond bentwood chairs that are the stuff of deep decor envy. 
 She was heading toward a vision of material utopia in which products are the problem and more products are the solution. "When you think of your own life, there's a time for several different lifestyles. That old, traditional stuff is making us feel the other way, that things can't change, that taking responsibility for your things is more important than taking responsibility for your life. It's O.K. to replace them, to get rid of them. We don't think we're going to live one way always. Our feeling is: It's just furniture. Change it." 
 Of all the paths by which design travels in America, few have been as tricky and as revealing as the relationship between America and Ikea. Last year, 29.3 million people worked their way through the directed Habitrail of an American Ikea store. In the slog of recession, Ikea sales for the year that ended in August were up 5 percent over the previous year. Such success says a lot about the evolution of the company. "If you look at the history of Ikea, in the early years their design was quite horrible," said Alexander von Vegesack, director of the Vitra Design Museum in Weil am Rhein, Germany, who in 1999 mounted an exhibit on the history of the company. But in the last decade, he said, the company has pushed a more ambitious aesthetic. "They became more and more interested in design. Today if you go to Ikea, you always will find some pieces which are good designs and very reasonable in pricing."
But more interesting is what that success says about America. In a short stretch of time, and for reasons that were almost completely coincidental, the country changed in ways that made it much more amenable to the transient, plastic modernism of Ikea. Those broad changes also served to dress the company in precisely the mythologies it needed to get over. With a nod to the economic theories of Ronald Reagan, Ikea practiced a sophisticated brand of demand-side aesthetics. By keeping a close eye on its market, and responding astutely as it changed, a company went from building ugly, inferior furniture for a backwater region to becoming a chic, smiling fixture within millions of American homes, quite possibly including yours. 
The train ride to Almhult from Copenhagen, the nearest major city, passes through an unattractive grind of rocky forests, broken incongruously by a tiny Wild West theme park called Amerika. The theme park, gone in the span of a train whistle, is a small gesture in the way of cultural translation and tribute, like the American programs that cycle through Swedish TV. 
America is here and not here. In the 19th century, much of the region's population immigrated to places like Minnesota and Nebraska, leaving those who stayed behind to squeeze a slender living from crafts and small farming. In 1953, Ingvar Kamprad opened a furniture showroom here. He combined his initials with those of Elmtaryd, the farm where he grew up, and the village of Agunnaryd, his hometown, to form the name Ikea. Today, the United States -- with its shifting economies, its eager trendiness and its unique demographics -- may control a good deal of the future fortunes of Kamprad's company. It's certain that his company has anticipated a good deal of the future of the United States.
To peer into the world of Ikea for any time is to dive into the thorny bramble of class, in particular the twisted course of class during the 1990's. In the peculiar rites of the company culture, from Almhult outward, class is always in the foreground. The company's 70,000 employees are called "co-workers"; the target customers are referred to as "the many," or sometimes "people with thin wallets." Private offices are rare; everyone is on a first-name basis. Bill Agee, an American who transferred to Almhult five years ago, said he had to adjust upon entry. "It's a little religious or missionary in a sense," he said, "but it's who we are." The overt goodyism of it meshed with his experiences of Sweden as a whole. When he first arrived, he made a wrong turn down a one-way street. Instead of screaming at him, people on the street wagged fingers -- "as if to say, 'You're not doing your part to support a better Sweden,"' he said. "That bothered me more than someone giving me the finger."
The office chatter has a benevolent "Star Trek" vibe: the answer is always design, and the reward for such answers is world domination. The most basic products come packaged as a mission, rendered under the slogan "democratic design." Even the company's newsletter includes articles on the effectiveness of the newsletter: a recent issue cited a study showing that "three out of four Ikea co-workers read the magazine regularly." Peter Fiell, who researched the company for his book "Industrial Design A-Z," described the ethos as a kind of moral humanism played out in chairs and shelving units. "It goes back to Charles Eames -- how to get the most quality to the greatest number of people for the least money," Fiell said. "That's the nucleus of modernism. It's inherently optimistic."
As certain as it now seems, Ikea's path in America has been one of error and recovery. In early surveys of American consumers, the company found that Ikea buyers were likely to be people who had traveled abroad, who considered themselves risk takers, who liked fine food and wine. They bought the first Walkmen, laptops and cellphones. The most likely people had frequent-flier plans. The least likely were those who collected guns. The company then chose sites for new stores based on the distribution of such values. The results looked like the red and blue maps from the last presidential election, with stores chasing Al Gore's blues and avoiding the Republican reds. Kent Nordin, until recently Ikea's sales and marketing manager for North America, looked at the numbers this way: "There's more Buicks driven in the middle than on the coasts." The company went to the coasts. 
But if the company was in the right place, it was the wrong time. Shortly after the first store opened in 1985, the dollar began to drop against the Swedish kroner, forcing the company to raise prices and cut profit margins. Moreover, America did not like the goods. The company stubbornly refused to size its beds and kitchen cabinets to fit American sheets and appliances. Nordin remembers following shoppers in a store in Houston, when a woman said to him, "I like this bed, but what is 160 centimeters?" When he tried to explain, she said, "Young man, why do you do this?" Other things were wrong as well. There were no glasses large enough to meet American big-gulp thirsts. "People told us they were drinking out of the vases," he said. In spring 1992, the Ikea board met to consider closing its operations in the United States and adding its corpse to what Nordin calls "the graveyard for European retailers." He says now, "If we'd been a public company, we would not be here today." Eventually, the company changed the size of its mattresses and cabinets, softened the sofa cushions and added big, cheap glasses. If you have ever owned these, chances are they are all broken now.
The greatest problem, however, was one of class values. Taken at its word, Ikea was addressing the people who could not afford other options, and that market was not enough. These were not the people who liked foreign travel and wine and not the early adopters who make American consumer taste. In the course of its market research, however, the company identified a change in the way postboomer Americans view their material possessions. It seemed that the line between durable goods (things like refrigerators or furnaces, which are expected to last forever) and soft goods (things that turn over at the speed of fashion) was blurring. The popularity of car leasing has made it possible for more Americans to switch wheels as rapidly as they change hemlines. The Swatch watch, similarly, made quality timekeeping disposable. And the status glow on a BlackBerry or an iPod lasts only until a newer, more powerful model comes out. 
The next step, according to Christian Mathieu, external-marketing manager for Ikea North America, was for furniture, the mother of all durable goods, to cross to soft. This involves a greater leap. "Americans change their spouse as often as their dining-room table, about 1.5 times in a lifetime," he said. As he saw it, this was a habit that no longer made sense. People no longer died in the home they were born in; why were they lugging their grandmother's chintz from one house to the next to the next?
In a rather substantial American market research program begun in the mid-1990's, Ikea posed questions not just about housewares but also about values, asking people whether they agreed with statements like "I like to take risks," "I am spiritual" or "Protecting the family is important to me." It found that much of the country was frozen by decor fear, Nordin said. The reason many Americans, especially older Americans, "keep a sofa longer than a car," he said, is that they believe "it's going to be the icon of the living room. And if you fail, you have to apologize to everyone who comes into the home." This was not necessarily the case, however, among a younger group, particularly one attuned to a more entrepreneurial, more risk-taking business culture. The company has long shown a knack for tweaking consumer desires ahead of its competition (well before gay characters became a staple of American television, for example, a 1994 Ikea ad featured two gay men shopping for furniture), and a decision was made to exploit this new development. 
The company's latest ad campaign is a result of that decision. It can be seen as a kind of curriculum by which to teach this new group how to take a more commitment-free approach to furniture. It was directed by Spike Jonze, best known for his film "Being John Malkovich." In the campaign, coyly dubbed Unboring, we see a discarded lamp, forlorn and forsaken in some rainy American city. A man turns to the camera sympathetically. "Many of you feel bad for this lamp," he says in an exaggerated Swedish accent. "That is because you're crazy." 
On the surface, this is a peculiar message for a company identified with a social-welfare state to send to a nation of ravenous, wasteful capitalist consumers -- or at least an odd one to cast in such specifically national terms. But regardless of the apparent contradiction, this new campaign has become a part of the Ikea gospel, and a part of the way the company and America see each other. 
Among the many repercussions of the technology boom of the 1990's was that it flipped the compass points of American class. Suddenly new money was more dynamic, more mesmerizing than old money. It made for juicier magazine spreads and gawking television news features. Old money represented fading values; new money was the future: plastic, high-tech, fungible, voraciously evanescent. Most important for Ikea, new money lived differently, stimulated different desires among the broader public. Old money cherished family heirlooms; new money made MTV's "Cribs." It was ahistoric, rapacious for novelty. Tradition was a thorn in its side, not a guiding presence. Instead of fetishizing the treasures of the past gilded age, new money announced itself in playhouse hues and cartoony designs from Arne Jacobsen, George Nelson, Verner Panton and other modernists. Appropriate to the new economy, the furnishings were expensive, but their value lay not in the materials but in an overlay of information, a narrative of design. They told a story that flattered both the owner and his audience. It was retro and futurist, a comforting view of dizzying change. For Ikea, this was a recipe for opportunity. Marble was expensive; color could be done cheap. 
Josephine Rydberg-Dumont noticed a corollary change that had similar advantages for Ikea's American experiment: an upmarketing of downmarket goods. Calvin Klein's cK T-shirts, Starbucks coffee, basketball shoes designed as if for the space program, sushi in the Grand Union -- these were tokens of conspicuous quality for a broad part of the population. "Ten or 15 years ago, traveling in the United States, you couldn't eat well," she said. "You couldn't get good coffee. Now you can get good bread in the supermarket, and people think that's normal. I like that very much. That's more important to the good life than the availability of expensive wines. That's what Ikea is about."
It was a particularly good thing to be about in the 1990's, a decade in which the economic folk tales were of astronomical success (or, by the end, vertiginous falls), but the broad reality was quite different: for Americans in the middle of the wage scale, real earnings, adjusted for inflation, declined or held flat for much of the decade. Even when they were putting away a few dollars, members of the middle class were losing ground to the people to whose status they aspired, the heroes of those folk tales. The majority of Americans were participants in a zeitgeist of obscene riches without having a piece of the action. 
What they could have, in just the same degree as the new economy's new rich, was the immaterial titillations of design. Design was a perfect class commodity for a class that was going nowhere. It added value to a toilet brush or a garbage pail, to say nothing of personal computers. The ubiquity of these fluid computer-generated designs suggested an attractive world of class mobility. It promised that you could be moving forward, even if your paycheck was slipping back: why, just look at your toothbrush, designed by Philippe Starck for Alessi. Glossy design magazines sat side by side with the tabloids in supermarket checkout lines. Decor gurus built cable TV franchises among the same daytime audiences that used to watch soap operas. Target invited the six-pack public into the (blob-shaped) pool, introducing conspicuously cool lines by the name-brand designers Starck and Michael Graves. Here was a distinctly American perspective on democratic design: if you couldn't afford to make your home look like Buckingham Palace, you could get some of the snob appeal of an Ian Schrager boutique hotel. Not only that, the newer take was better.
And what that new perspective looked like, more than anything, was Ikea. Showcased in magazines, bruited among early adopters, Ikea suited the benign technocracy and ironic wink of the new economy. Where stores like Pottery Barn and Restoration Hardware offer the comfort of prefab antiques, with a promise of permanence and connection with the past, Ikea fabricates a connection with motion itself. With little change in the product line, the company shifted its profile from its blandly functional side to its design side -- if not among the literal "many," then among the taste makers the many followed. "They raised the popular consciousness of design," Fiell said. "It's based on a highly optimistic view of the future, with equality of opportunity and an integrated look that is part of the identity." Sold only in Ikea stores, surrounded by a universe of other Ikea goods, the designs aim for an instant sugar rush. Like the Swedish clothing chain H.&M., whose store opening clogged Manhattan sidewalks in April 2000, it promises 360 degrees of immediate visual candy, at impulsive, no-guilt prices -- what the critic George W.S. Trow has called the context of no context. It's like being on TV, all shimmery surface. As a set designer for MTV's "Real World" told me, "We love Ikea."
The aroma of impermanence that hung over a lot of Ikea products, the nicked veneers and wobbly joints of Ikea regret, no longer seemed such a problem. Impermanence had become a mark of progress, not of decay. After years in the red, Ikea's revenues in the United States doubled over a four-year period, to $1.27 billion in 2001 from $600 million in 1997. The company expanded from 5 stores in the United States at the start of the 90's to 15 stores now and plans to add 50 more in North America by 2013. The United States is the company's third-biggest market, after Germany and Britain. The company declines to give information about profits, but as an indication of the number of people visiting these stores, the in-house restaurants, serving Swedish meatballs and cured salmon, are now the 15th-largest food chain in America. 
And though it was linked to the boom, the benign futurism has so far proved resistant to recession. "Our philosophy should work in good times and bad times," said Lena Simonsson-Berge, marketing manager for Ikea North America. There would be no need to retune the Ikea pitch, she added. "We are prepared for downturns." 
There is a price for all of Ikea's cost-cutting, and during my immersion in Almhult I felt the increasing chafe of design irritation. Little flaws, multiplied, mocked the cheery optimism of the veneers. Even in the company headquarters, cabinet doors never seemed to line up at right angles; in a conference room organized around four abutting beech Effektiv desks, each corner was a slightly different height. Joints wobbled. "See, this is what I don't like," said Eric Linander, a communications officer, jiggling an unsteady table top. "The design is good, but the quality is not so good." The minor glitches undercut the promise of material utopia: things weren't getting perfect; they were creaking from below. Like many logistic systems that are internally consistent, Ikea's populism does not accommodate the inherently individualistic revenge of imperfection: that delivering 80 percent of the quality for 60 percent of the price is not always a bargain. What looks good on "Real World" does not always wear well at home. Linander casually dropped a word to the wise: self-assembled furniture requires retightening over time. 
The test of the limits of Ikea living lies in a pilot program called BoKlok, Swedish for "Smart Living," that the company has instituted at scattered sites in Scandinavia. (See "A Prefab Utopia," this page.) For nearly six years, in partnership with the international developer Skanska, the company has built small, prefab apartment buildings, expanding its design agenda beyond chairs and light fixtures to cover whole mini-communities and, by extension, the lives inside. So far, they have built more than 1,000 units and have branched into four countries. The inexpensive, pleasant apartments carry the overlay of "democratic design" to a logical conclusion. Madeleine Nobs, one of the three architects, all women, described the project in evangelical terms: "As an architect, I think you can make people's lives better by design." 
For all of Ikea's rhetoric about social mission, however, there is an unspoken paradox to the company's efforts to build homey communities. With its huge parking lot and accompanying traffic glut, an Ikea store is often a smiley-faced enemy of community cohesion. The low prices draw customers away from smaller neighborhood shops, the nodes of community exchange; the volume of business attracts other mass retailers, creating big-box strip malls. Wary residents in Westchester County, N.Y., recently organized to fight Ikea in court, ultimately preventing the company from opening a store in New Rochelle. In the same way, Ikea's self-image as an ecofriendly company stands in direct contradiction to its campaigns telling you to toss out a perfectly good lamp. 
But the company has an impressive track record for avoiding controversy and keeping its positive, even benevolent, image intact. Ikea was mentioned in a 1992 documentary that looked at child labor in Pakistan but managed to escape the damaging publicity lobbed at Nike and other multinationals, in part by forming strategic partnerships with groups like Greenpeace, Unicef and Save the Children. In 1998, when it was struggling with its environmental policy, Ikea reached out to Greenpeace and bankrolled a major research project by the World Resources Institute that impressed all involved parties. Most striking, in 1994, Ingvar Kamprad, the company's founder, was revealed to have supported various Nazi groups in the 1940's and 50's. He issued an apology, and in April 2001 the company expanded into Israel without incident. On opening day, 15,000 customers flooded the aisles. 
On a recent afternoon, I muscled my way through the Ikea store in Elizabeth, N.J., which frequently tops $1 million in sales on a Saturday. Like all Ikea stores, it is set up to force shoppers through the whole store, instead of letting them head for their department of choice: a bit of gentle social coercion, the strong arm of democratic design. Three times each year, department heads follow customers through the maze, mapping their paces to see how to get the most from the traffic flow. When they noticed that men weren't following their female partners into the textile departments, they set up displays of tools just outside. "We sold screwdrivers like you can't believe," Nordin said. 
On this day, the crowd was a sprawl of mixed classes and languages; the narrow cast of American marketing seemed suspended. I bought a plain Oppli bench to put my television on and an Ordning stainless-steel dish rack, one of the most stylish -- and, at $24.95, most upmarket -- items in the store. It was a branded experience, from the food I ate in the store to the bus that took me back to Manhattan. The assembly on the Oppli was genius. The Ordning, which looked so sleek in the biosphere of the Ikea store, looked terrible in my home. It sits banished in its stackable box, another postcard of Ikea regret. Yet this is the promise of material utopia: that a change of products can fix your life -- if not this change, then the next. I thought of Lotta Carlsson, who lived in the BoKlok in Almhult. She mixed some older furniture among the Ikea, including a brass-and-ironwork bed that belonged to her great-grandparents. "People said, 'Oh, did you buy that at Ikea?"' she said. The alternative, somehow, seemed so much less exciting. It wasn't designed newer or better or cheaper. Outside a little personal interest, it was hardly a story at all. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Impermanence is a mark of progress: Ikea in Elizabeth, N.J. (Barbel Schmidt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: INGKA HOLDING BV (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (95%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



3 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: We'll Always Have Paris 

BYLINE:  By Tony Judt; Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.

 BODY:
 PARIS 1919
Six Months That Changed the World.
By Margaret MacMillan.
Illustrated. 570 pp. New York:
Random House. $35.
 From January to June 1919, the leaders of Britain, France, Italy and the United States met in Paris to decide the outcome of the war they had just won against the Central Powers. They faced a Herculean task. In the course of the Great War of 1914-18, four old multinational empires had fallen: the Russian, Austro-Hungarian, German and Ottoman. The fate of hundreds of millions of people, from Strasbourg to Baghdad, from Hamburg to Aqaba, was unclear. Previous peace conferences -- including the best known, the Congress convened in Vienna in 1815 to reorder Europe after the defeat of Napoleon -- had confined themselves to adjusting the fates of dynasties and states. The peacemakers of 1919 had also to pay attention to principles, promises, public opinion and a fast-changing and unstable political scene. Russia was in revolution and much of central Europe seemed ready to follow suit.
The historian of the Paris peace talks (better known to history by the Versailles treaty in which they culminated) faces a task almost as daunting. Paris was awash in study groups, side negotiations and specialist discussions conducted simultaneously during those frenetic months. Every territorial demand, frontier rectification, ethnolinguistic claim and counterclaim -- and there were dozens of them -- had a history extending back many years before 1914. How is this story to be presented so that a modern reader can make sense of it without drowning in unfamiliar names and obscure Ruritanian conflicts?
To complicate matters further, anyone writing in English about the making of the Versailles treaty must even now struggle to escape from the long shadow cast by two young English participants in the Paris negotiations, who wrote their own accounts of the events. In "Peacemaking 1919," Harold Nicolson sketched caustic vignettes of elderly statesmen adrift in a world they couldn't comprehend. And John Maynard Keynes, in "The Economic Consequences of the Peace," demolished the credibility of the settlement itself, eviscerated the case for war reparations and predicted the disaster that must follow.
Margaret MacMillan's prose is no match for Nicolson's, and no one can compete with Keynes's intellectual firepower. But with "Paris 1919" she has written a very good history of the negotiations, full of colorful detail and as comprehensive as anyone could wish. The organization of the book leaves something to be desired -- discussing the 1919 creation of Yugoslavia without first explaining what happened in the Balkan wars of 1912-13 is confusing; so is the author's decision to tell the story of the breakup of the Hapsburg empire after her account of the little states that succeeded it. But the separate national narratives are very well handled. 
MacMillan, a professor of history at the University of Toronto, is particularly good at describing and characterizing individuals, not only leading figures like Woodrow Wilson, David Lloyd George and Georges Clemenceau, but also peripheral actors like Queen Marie of Romania and a string of hapless supplicants from Beijing to Budapest. Wilson does not come out well. Despite his good intentions, perhaps because of them, he was widely viewed as petulant, petty and vain. Lloyd George and Clemenceau, closeted with him for half a year, eventually grew tolerant of his obsessions and moods, but they never got used to his peculiarly American brand of idealism, so ill suited to a time when arm-twisting and old-fashioned horse-trading were required to achieve anything. Wilson's obsession with achieving his new League of Nations was not shared by the more realistic and pessimistic Europeans. And when the Americans did finally abandon principles and resort to bullying, they seemed hypocritical.
Nevertheless, the American president was the key figure in Paris. The French were understandably concerned with keeping Germany down for the indefinite future. The Italians wanted the territorial pound of flesh they had been secretly promised in return for switching sides in 1915. The British sought above all to stabilize Europe's peripheries and protect access to their imperial possessions farther south and east. Only the Americans had a Big Idea -- self-determination. The peoples and nations now released from imperial captivity were each to receive their own spaces, assigned after careful specialist attention to history, geography, language and other relevant considerations. Poles, Czechs, Slovaks, Slovenes, Serbs, Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians, Romanians, Bulgarians, Italians, Greeks, Jews, Arabs, Armenians, even Kurds were to have a place in the sun. Only Germans, and to a lesser extent Turks, were not free to determine where and with whom they would live -- the price of defeat.
The idea of self-determination was wonderful, the reality disastrous. As Robert Lansing, Wilson's secretary of state, predicted: "It will raise hopes which can never be realized. It will, I fear, cost thousands of lives. In the end it is bound to be discredited, to be called the dream of an idealist who failed to realize the danger until it was too late to check those who attempt to put the principle into force." He was right. The peoples of central Europe and the old Ottoman empire did not live in conveniently divided communities. They were typically mixed up together. 
Thus self-determination for the Romanians of Transylvania meant newfound and unwelcome minority status for their Hungarian neighbors in a Greater Romania. Danzig (now Gdansk) was a predominantly German city surrounded by a Polish hinterland; Trieste and Fiume (Rijeka) were Italian outposts in a sea of rural Slovenes and Croats; Smyrna (Izmir) was an overwhelmingly Greek port in otherwise Turkish Asia Minor. Did these cities belong in Germany or Poland? Yugoslavia or Italy? Turkey or Greece? And what to make of a formerly Austrian city like Czernowitz (now Chernivtsi, Ukraine), a mixture of Germans, Jews, Romanians, Ruthenians, Poles, Hungarians and others besides? Communities that had lived for centuries in the same place under imperial tutelage suddenly found themselves minority interlopers in someone else's state.
The Paris negotiators did their best, but their efforts were doomed, as some of them already realized. Observing the fate of the stateless Ukrainians, Lloyd George wrote, "It fills me with despair the way in which I have seen small nations, before they have hardly leapt into the light of freedom, beginning to oppress other races than their own." MacMillan is sympathetic to the victors' problems. As to the German question, she shares the current revisionist view that the war guilt and reparations clauses were not especially harsh, given what the Germans had done. Neither Hitler nor World War II should be blamed upon Versailles, she suggests.
That seems right. But even if we agree that Keynes needs revising, MacMillan's overall assessment of the Paris decisions does seem a bit generous. After all, even at the time it was clear to someone like the British general Henry Wilson that terrible mistakes were being made. Of Western support for the unsuccessful Greek project to occupy Smyrna he rightly noted, "The whole thing is mad and bad." Winston Churchill rushed to Paris in an unsuccessful attempt to block the carving up of the Turkish empire: it would bring "eternal war" with the Muslim world, he warned, from the Mediterranean to India. And so it has.
After World War II, the Americans accepted their responsibility to remain economically involved in Europe's reconstruction (something Wilson had energetically refused in 1919). Instead of drawing unworkable frontiers and creating new minorities, the victors of 1945 shifted entire peoples. But on the whole they left in place the arrangements invented in Paris a quarter of a century before. 
As a result, Paris in the spring of 1919 is still the best starting place for anyone wishing to understand today's world. Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia are gone. But the Greek-Turkish animosity (like that between Hungary and Romania) can be traced directly to decisions taken in Paris. So can the Balkan wars of the 1990's; the tribulations of Albanians in former Yugoslavia; the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict; the Israel-Palestine hostilities; the claims of the Kurds and the territorial sensitivities of the Turks. Of the modern world's serious trouble spots, only Korea and Kashmir owe little to the actions and omissions of the men of 1919. And Iraq? A British invention, born with French concurrence 83 years ago in a Parisian drawing room.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: From left, the makers of the new world order in 1919: Woodrow Wilson, David Lloyd George, Georges Clemenceau. (Dugald Stermer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); HISTORY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JUDT, TONY; MACMILLAN, MARGARET 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); HUNGARY (72%)

TITLE: PARIS 1919: SIX MONTHS THAT CHANGED THE WORLD (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



4 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Home Planet Security 

BYLINE:  By Andres Martinez; Andres Martinez writes editorials for The Times.

 BODY:
 ONE WORLD
The Ethics of Globalization.
By Peter Singer.
235 pp. New Haven:
Yale University Press.
$21.95.
 CLOSE your eyes and picture your community. Whom do you see? Your family, surely. Work colleagues? Everyone who shares your area code? Your religion? All Americans? Folks in Afghanistan? Unless we start answering yes to all of the above, we're in for big trouble.
That's the message of Peter Singer's timely and thoughtful book, "One World: The Ethics of Globalization." A professor of bioethics at Princeton University and one of the most provocative philosophers of our time, Singer writes, "How well we come through the era of globalization (perhaps whether we come through it at all) will depend on how we respond ethically to the idea that we live in one world." 
"One World" is a manual for elaborating this response. Singer's recipes are at once simple and elusive: we need to do more as individuals to alleviate the plight of the world's poor, and the world needs more effective global governing bodies to establish protections like meaningful labor and environmental standards.
The United States, Singer says, often stands as an obstacle to humanity's quest to embrace the idea of one world. As a proportion of national wealth, American foreign aid is the skimpiest among rich countries. We constantly refuse to pay our United Nations bills. We have failed to join, and are busy trying to undermine, the new International Criminal Court, as well as global efforts to crack down on pollution and end discrimination against women.
Ignorance may be our best defense. How many Americans understand the extent to which their country, especially during the Bush presidency, strives to undermine collective action on a number of fronts? Surveys, Singer reminds us, have shown that Americans wrongly believe that some 20 percent of the federal budget goes to foreign aid. A majority of respondents would like to see foreign aid's slice of the pie "reduced" to 10 percent. Of course, that would amount to a more than tenfold increase in Washington's development assistance.
"One World" opens with an analogy between terrorists who fly planes into skyscrapers and drivers of sport utility vehicles who engage in less deliberate killing by contributing to global warming. But that is more a tease than a sign of things of things to come. As globalization polemics go, the book is rather restrained. More than a rant, it is a stimulating tour of the moral and practical challenges posed by the world's accelerating contraction. 
There is plenty here to encourage either side of the globalization debate. Singer serves up many of the same criticisms of the World Trade Organization that protesters at international gatherings chant about. Yet throughout, he seems to believe that globalization, if only we could regulate it properly, offers humanity its best hope. His is a study of how, not whether, to embrace globalization.
In chapters dedicated to the environment, trade, the evolution of international law and foreign aid, Singer grapples with globalization's thorniest questions. Among them: to what extent must political leaders look beyond their direct constituents and act out of a concern for the welfare of people everywhere? And here's one that's well timed: when may a state that is not itself under attack go to war? 
"One World" contains far more statistical analysis than one might expect from a volume on ethics. But there is a refreshing intellectual integrity in Singer's efforts to assess the facts on the ground, as when he writes, "No evidence that I have found enables me to form a clear view about the overall impact of economic globalization on the poor." Singer is equally perplexed about contradictory indications on whether global inequality is on the rise. At times, though, his exhaustive surveying of others' research can become tedious -- as if he feels the need to show he's done his homework. 
Singer is a calculating ethicist. He applauds Kofi Annan's doctrine of humanitarian intervention, arguing that sovereignty considerations should not prevent the international community from intervening to protect people from their own governments. But, he says, it would have been foolish to try to protect Chechnya from Russia, or Tibet from China. Costs must always be calculated when deciding whether to do something potentially beneficial. 
Singer's sense of realpolitik is more contrived when he writes that the war on terrorism has turned America's need to embrace altruism into a strategic imperative. This reads much like the spinning of an author who got a call from his editor on Sept. 12 demanding a new introduction. To argue that the terrorist attacks made the hardship of distant villagers a national security issue is to disregard the fact that much of America's development assistance during the cold war was conceived as part of the effort to contain Communism -- often with disastrous results for villagers. 
The book's strongest chapter is undoubtedly "One Atmosphere." It is, at one level, a primer on global efforts to contain greenhouse gas emissions, and it concludes with Singer's well-reasoned call for granting nations, based on their projected population in 2050, a fixed entitlement to the amount of emissions they can produce. Singer's plan envisions the trading of polluting rights, along the lines established domestically by the 1990 Clean Air Act.
The chapter on trade is less satisfying. Not only does Singer dwell on a number of past disputes (including some that even he concedes are a bit dated), but he fails to confront some of the issues that are most outrageous from a moral perspective, like the hypocritical agricultural subsidies in Europe and America and their dire consequences for poor nations. 
The pressing challenge for the new century, in Singer's view, is the creation of a truly democratic global government, and by this he emphatically does not mean federalism of the type that grants all countries one vote, with the powerful ones having a veto. A lamentable shortcoming of "One World" is its failure to dwell more on the experience of the European Union in this and other areas. The union, a trading bloc that has evolved into a formidable transnational regulator, is the one cutting-edge research lab for many of Singer's core issues, especially the need to subjugate national interests to the welfare of a broader community. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BIOETHICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (65%); TERRORISM (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (50%); BUDGETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



5 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-01-02: ON LANGUAGE; 
Defenestration

BYLINE:  By William Safire 

 BODY:
The gangland moniker of Abe Reles was Kid Twist. In 1941, the Murder Inc. member became an informer for the police and helped the Brooklyn prosecutor Bill O'Dwyer send Frank (Dasher) Abbandano and Harry (Pittsburgh Phil) Strauss to the electric chair.
 But before he could testify against Louis (Lepke) Buchalter or Benjamin (Bugsy) Siegel, Reles -- in police custody -- jumped, or was pushed, out the window of the Half Moon Hotel in Coney Island. Wiseacres used a curious verb to describe his murder, suicide or deadly escape attempt: the Kid "defenestrated." 
 A generation later, in 1968, the New York Times columnist C. L. Sulzberger resuscitated the word in writing of the mysterious out-the-window death of the Czech patriot Jan Masaryk: "It was widely recalled that murder by defenestration had been most famously enacted in that same city of Prague in 1618, starting the Thirty Years' War."
My predecessor in columny was only slightly incorrect: the nobles of Bohemia, following a tradition started in 1419, did throw two imperial officials and a secretary out of a window of the Hradschin Palace in Prague. Legend has it they landed in a pile of manure and escaped uninjured. This casus belli (pronounced KAY-sus BELL-eye, Latin for "cause for war," now a favorite term in the Pentagon) became known to historians as the Second Defenestration of Prague.
This lengthy but undeniably colorful introduction has to do with the Latin-rooted word for "windows," one of the building blocks in the new language of architecture and design. The first question put to architects by savvy clients with knockout "signature" buildings in mind is "What unique concept do you have for the fenestration?"
The architectural critic of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Patricia (Pittsburgh Phil) Lowry, wrote in October of a new hospital: "the architects subtly varied the fenestration patterns, establishing individual identities for the two pavilions." In Canada, The Edmonton Journal hailed a Quebec architect for placing a new home's kitchen, bathrooms and utilities all against the north wall: "preventing the fenestration of that wall reduced energy losses."
This offers the lexicographer a fenestration of opportunity: let us examine the high-rising jargon that architects and designers call, self-mockingly, talkitecture or archispeak.
"Different colors articulated the planar composition of interior walls," Raul Barreneche writes in Interior Design. Edie Cohen, in the same magazine, notes how "through the series of pavilions and planar setbacks, the architects successfully mitigated mass." The word means "lying in a plane; two-dimensional." Never say flat.
Just as Hollywood producers do lunch, urban planners and landscape architects hold charettes. A charette was originally a Roman two-wheeled vehicle (not to be confused with a four-wheeled chariot) and later came to mean a small cart in which French architectural students placed their drawings. Now, according to The Tallahassee Democrat, a charette is "a collaborative design process involving citizens, business owners, government officials and architects." In The San Antonio Express-News, Ron Wilson recently wrote that his city's housing authority "scheduled an all-day 'charette,' or architecture design discussion, to get more public input for the project."
In the new urbanism, "pedestrian friendly" planners are designing streets and spaces to make people feel more comfortable. "We're really excited about a new urbanism-type of project," the economic development manager Susan Grafton told The Rocky Mountain News. "It is going to deliver a new residential, mixed-use project in the city." The developer Rob Dickson defined the Albuquerque High project as "the new urbanism: live, work and play in the same area."
Charles Bailey, a new urbanist landscape architect from Columbia, Md., explains: "After planning and building out in the suburbs and exurbs, we're redirecting planning back to where the people already are, incorporating mixed-use areas, short blocks, civic areas. Multimodal is a term we're using a lot. We're developing communities not just with commuter buses but with light-rail systems, fixed-route buses and more room for pedestrian traffic and bikes. We're holding a charette on that with all the disciplines represented along with people who tell us to save that historic tree on the corner."
Prof. Thomas Fisher, dean of the school of architecture at the University of Minnesota, notes: "In building construction, you hear solid Anglo-Saxon words: door, window, frame. In architecture, you hear words more Latin- and French-based: fenestration, porte-cochere. Architects use anatomy as metaphor: we refer to the arms, head, body of a building. If it has a central corridor that connects everything, we'll call it the spine. In teaching architecture, I see students adopt the jargon because it makes them feel part of the club, though people who use talkitecture more often talk about their work than do it. Teaching writing, I make them unlearn the jargon. You wouldn't use a word like blobitecture in your writing."
I would. The French porte-cochere is just a covered driveway, but blobitecture has a pejorative ring to it, the way edifice complex (a play on "Oedipus complex") was used to deride the tendency of Gov. Nelson Rockefeller of New York to build monumental structures in Albany.
The architect Greg Lynn coined the term blob architecture in 1995 with no derision in mind. He was drawing on a computer, clicking out a random cloud of points that assumed an amorphous shape, loose and formless as an amoeba, which digital designers sometimes call a "biomorphic form." Lynn tells me the term "blob" comes from a sort of acronym for a technical description of a computer-formed shape -- a "binary large object."
Although blob architecture "lacks the elegance, rigor and beauty that comes from modules, proportions and symmetry," Lynn says, "in due time, the blob architects will discover a new form of beauty and elegance in the voluptuous, rhythmic and undulating forms of the differential calculus."
The envelope-pushing architect has seen his term shortened to blobitecture. Those planar types who prefer traditional forms like cubes and spheres -- and who look askance at the seeming shapelessness of what developed into a new style -- seized on the predigital meaning of blob: a bubble or a globule of liquid resembling a teardrop, with an extended meaning of a gooseberry or duck's egg, which cricket players treat as a zero -- hence, an error or bonehead play. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (86%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); HISTORY (72%); WRITERS (69%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (69%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (63%); SUICIDE (55%) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (87%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (87%); CANADA (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



6 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-01-02; 
Interior Life

BYLINE:  By A. O. Scott; A. O. Scott is a film critic for the New York Times and a frequent contributor to the magazine.

 BODY:
On my battered brown desk, right next to the laptop on which I'm writing this, is a stack of thick-spined glossy magazines, their pages dogeared and bristling with Post-its. They are full of seductive images -- of glistening swanlike faucets, zaftig chairs, naughty little peekaboo drapes and an awful lot of naked blond wood flooring. And yet for all their voluptuousness, I regard these publications with dread and anxiety, as if they were the research materials for an overdue term paper. Their purpose, of course, is to inspire me, to pique my slumbering domestic imagination, but instead I only want to ransack them for easy ideas, hoping the plagiarism won't be noticed. They offer up a cornucopia of styles and choices -- fanciful and practical, cutting edge and neotraditional, Italian, Swedish, Danish and Amish, stainless and distressed, hand-woven and machine tooled -- and force me to confront the unavoidable realization that I have no style of my own. 
 And this, I have discovered, just will not do. It's not that my wife and I, who are about to embark on an insanely ambitious renovation of our apartment, have bad taste. When it comes to chairs, bookshelves, bed frames and stove tops, we know what we like -- we think. But that is hardly sufficient, and not only because one of us makes aesthetic judgments for a living and would deride any such statement about books, movies or popular music. What we choose will be a reflection of who we are, and so every item on the checklist -- brass or porcelain? birch or pine? recessed lighting or wall fixtures? -- presents an identity crisis in microcosm. 
 I suspect we are not alone. In the era of customized consumer capitalism, distinction is mass-produced, and connoisseurship has been democratized. The wide availability of a variety of beautiful, unusual things -- at Pottery Barn, on eBay, at stores that turn the junk of earlier eras into today's collectibles -- increases the pressure, the sense of responsibility, that attends every purchase. Like the food revolution, the design revolution is built on the lovely paradox that what is special should be available for everyone's enjoyment and that good taste can at last shed its residue of invidious social differences.
Which means that indifference is unacceptable. You can still eat meatloaf, of course, or wear a button-down blue oxford-cloth shirt or sit around a Formica table top in molded plastic chairs, but each of these actions must represent a decision, a declaration that in a world of endlessly multiplying aesthetic options, this is what you chose, this is who you are. Which is what I'm looking for in those shelter rags, and probably in these very pages.
Once upon a time, things were simpler. Our first jointly owned piece of furniture, bought in the early days of our cohabitation, when the future was as blank and full of promise as a freshly painted room on moving day, was a cheap pine fold-out futon frame. A few months ago, in anticipation of our impending redesign, we hauled that scuffed, exhausted frame -- which had been dismantled and reassembled, often in the absence of printed instructions, at least a half-dozen times -- out to the trash and said goodbye to our carefree youth. In our 20's, like most of the people we knew, we had feathered a series of provisional nests up and down the Eastern Seaboard with castoffs and hand-me-downs: a derelict sofa hauled in from the street, a table from some grandparent's garage, an armchair bought for $5 from a nursing home that was going out of business. What we purchased new usually involved particleboard or foam rubber, and not only for financial reasons. Our native state was transience, and we wanted nothing in our lives (apart from each other, our television and some of our books) that could not be thrown away if the need arose.
Gradually, though, our acquisitions took on a different character, and our transience was not the nomadism of early adulthood but a sign of the long work in progress of settling down. Our current nest, which we imagine will be permanent, is in a state of constant flux, every room a three-dimensional to-do list. An enormous wardrobe is crammed into a corner of the living room because eventually, when walls come down and doorways are widened, it will look nice in our bedroom. Framed posters are stacked in the closet because the walls they might look best on are slated for demolition, or at least repainting.
And the process will not end when the savings are used up and the contractors go home. There will be bathrooms to think about, bright playrooms to be made over into sullen teenagers' lairs. The horizon of renovation is endless; the word itself implies renewal, a great American obligation, the alternative to which is death. As soon as we declare our homes finished, they risk becoming our tombs.
Or, to put it less melodramatically, by the time the work is done, the kids will be out of the house and we will be ready to retire to some Sun Belt leisure community where all the bungalows look the same. Then we can sell our perfected dream apartment to people who will immediately tear up what took us decades to install in order to facilitate their own renewal. "It has great potential," the broker will say. And so, once upon a time, did we.
But I'm ahead of myself. My own renovation -- my rebirth as a person with taste -- awaits. Paint colors, counter tops and tile patterns must be selected, and no one can do it for us. Friends who are further along in their own odysseys of renovation will try to help us navigate wood grains, kitchen appliances, cabinets and lighting fixtures; the architect and the contractor will show us blueprints and drawings and pepper us with queries about light, space, flow and dimension, and we will scratch our heads and make our fateful choices. The thought of it makes me tired. I wish that old futon was still around, so I could take a nap. 

GRAPHIC: * More than 26 million homeowners reported undertaking some type of home-improvement project in 1999.* One in 10 homeowners spends more than $5,000 a year on remodeling. * More than 75 percent of homeowners report a home improvement within two years of having a child. Homeowners who added a child spent 80 percent more on professional remodeling in 1999 than other homeowners. * In 1999, homeowners spent $9.4 billion renovating bathrooms and $7.3 billion renovating kitchens. From the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard UniversityPhoto (Leigh Davis) Chart: "HOUSE-PROUD"* In 1999, Americans spent about $180 billion on home improvements, accounting for almost 2 percent of the nation's economy.* More than 26 million homeowners reported undertaking some type of home-improvement project in 1999.* One in 10 homeowners spends more than $5,000 a year on remodeling. * More than 75 percent of homeowners report a home improvement within two years of having a child. Homeowners who added a child spent 80 percent more on professional remodeling in 1999 than other homeowners. * In 1999, homeowners spent $9.4 billion renovating bathrooms and $7.3 billion renovating kitchens. From the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLAGIARISM (70%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (69%); MOVIE REVIEWS (66%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (61%); COTTON FABRICS (60%); FLOORING (56%) INTERIOR DESIGN 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: SCOTT, A O 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



7 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Reader's Question; 
Researching the Past of a Lower East Side Tenement

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
 Q -- We are home schooling our daughters and for our social studies unit this fall have decided to try to find out what we can about our building, 237-9 Eldridge Street, on the Lower East Side. About five years ago we were doing some renovations and found in the walls a pamphlet for the Max Kobre Russian Bank, offering services like rail and ship ticketing, and some envelopes inscribed in pencil "Shapiro" and "Isat Shapiro." Would you have any other suggestions for us, or advice on where we might begin? . . . Rachel Andreyev, Manhattan.

A -- For many buildings in Manhattan built in 1866 or later (1868 in Brooklyn, 1874 in the Bronx, 1898 in Queens and Staten Island) a researcher can use the Department of Buildings' fax-back buildings information system to zero in on the construction date. Dial the department's main number -- (212) 227-7000 -- and press 2 and then 3 to get to the information system and then the property profile overview.
 Farther down the telephone chain is the computerized Actions and Violations report for this building, which contains the numbers of older building and alteration permits. (The process is quicker with the block and lot number, but the address is sufficient, and if a fax machine is not available, a visit is possible to the Manhattan office, at 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, Mondays to Fridays from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and Tuesdays from 8:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.) 
In your case the Actions & Violations report yields the number for the new building application -- NB148/1903, meaning the 148th plan filed for a new structure in 1903 in Manhattan. The article "Researching a New York City Building," posted on the Web at www.nysoclib.org, gives a general rundown on this procedure. 
To see the details of the new-building application, it is easiest to examine the microfilmed copies of the department's docket books (yearly application summaries) at the Municipal Archives, at 31 Chambers Street, Room 103, Mondays-Thursdays 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Fridays 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. The entry gives the basic data of the building, a six-story, 50-foot-front tenement erected in 1903, at a construction cost of $45,000. The developer was Leonor Spielberger of 76 St. Mark's Place, and the architects were Sass & Smallheiser, who did many tenement designs.
Land maps and other records show that Spielberger's single tenement replaced a pair of five-story buildings, each 25 feet wide. Listings from the digitized 1890 New York City directory at www.Ancestry.com indicate that they also were tenements, with 8 to 10 families apiece, whose occupants included Joseph Zwonk, a cigarmaker, and Robert Weir, a boatman.
Because these earlier land maps show the older buildings without any light wells on either side, they were probably built before the 1879 law that required lozenge-shaped air shafts on either side. Post-1879 structures, because of their narrower central areas, are often called dumbbell tenements. 
In 1901, a new tenement law was passed with stricter light-court requirements. This legislation made it much less economic to build the old 25-foot-front tenements, like the one now occupied by the Tenement House Museum, at 97 Orchard Street, and spurred wider 50-foot-front tenements, like yours. 
Although the nomenclature has become muddied, buildings erected before the 1901 law are generally called old-law tenements, and those built afterward, like yours, are called new-law tenements. "A History of Housing in New York City," by Richard Plunz (Columbia University Press, 1990), contains an excellent section on tenement planning and legislation.
No post-1890 New York City directories have been digitized, and census returns are not fully searchable yet online. To determine occupancy of 237-239 Eldridge you will have to check census returns in person. Most people use the local-history section of the New York Public Library at the main branch, at 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue (Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m.-7:30 p.m., Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.) or the National Archives regional office, at 201 Varick Street, near Canal Street (Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m., Tuesdays and Thursdays, 8 a.m.- 8 p.m.). 
Perhaps the "Isat Shapiro" of your envelope is captured by the 1910 census as Isaac Shapiro, 35, who had been in the United States for nine years but still spoke only Yiddish. Like most of the building's residents, his birthplace was listed as "Russ.-Yiddish." A carpenter, he had been out of work for 40 weeks in 1909 and lived at No. 237-239 with his wife, Frada, daughters Minnie, 7, and Pauline, 2, and son, Isidor, 3. Isaac had come over in 1904, followed by his wife and eldest daughter in 1906; Isidor and Pauline were born in the United States.
The census records are rich documents of humanity, practically short stories in the way they capture fragmentary glimpses of some people, like Isie "last name unknown," a 20-year-old boarder in the apartment of Max Goldstein. Isie was a peddler, described as "house to house." Looking at the occupations column of the census evokes a lost age: ice dealer; ladies' shirtwaists; seltzer business; brancher, artificial flowers; barrel dealer; hat pins. The latter was the given occupation of Fannie Ackerman, 15, who had arrived in the United States in 1904. 
Your children can search records of adjacent buildings to see if there were racial or ethnic distinctions among building tenants, and can search forward and backward to see how a street's population changed over time, up through the latest census open to the public, that of 1930. 
The ProQuest database of the digitized New York Times, available at many libraries, yields a number of citations for "237 Eldridge," including an October 1930 article about the closing of an illegal liquor operation in the building and a 1956 article about the arrest of a teenager who lived there and was planning an attack on another boy. It also picks up a 1904 article about Spielberger, the building's developer. He was a hotelkeeper in Rockaway Beach and began building operations in Manhattan in 1901; he declared bankruptcy in 1904.
Max Kobre of the Max Kobre Bank also had financial difficulties. In 1914 his three bank branches -- one on the Lower East Side and two in Brooklyn -- were shut down by the State Banking Department. Kobre was indicted on charges of banking fraud along with a partner, Moses Ginsberg. (Ginsberg was later vindicated, according to his 1959 obituary in The Times, and was designated a federal court trustee for the bank's liquidation. He entered the real estate business and in 1930 built the Carlyle Hotel, at 76th Street and Madison Avenue.)
There were near riots in 1914 at the Kobre bank at Canal Street and Broadway, although the depositors there ultimately got back 55 cents on the dollar. 
In 1916, on the day before Kobre's trial, his body was found under the open jet of a gas stove in his gas-filled kitchen at 115 West 122nd Street. But the coroner said that Kobre had suffered from heart disease, and the verdict was that death was from natural causes, so his estate got the proceeds of his $600,000 life insurance policy, which was divided among the depositors. 
Was Mr. Shapiro one of them? Perhaps not. By that time he was living in Harlem.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 1903 house at 237-9 Eldridge Street. A tenant found in the walls a pamphlet in Russian for the Max Kobre Russian Bank, offering rail and ship tickets, worldwide money transfers and foreign exchange. (Alan Chin for The New York Times); (Courtesy of Rachel Andreyev) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); GENEALOGY (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (65%) RESEARCH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: ANCESTRY.COM INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



8 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
The Acts of Devotion Begin With the Doors

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH GIOVANNINI 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
CHURCHES sometimes channel their spiritual message informally through a few touchable details. In September, the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels opened in downtown Los Angeles, and parishioners are already reaching out to the small Chinese turtle, the spread-winged Chumash condor and the other figures on the Great Bronze Doors at the entrance, created by the Los Angeles-based sculptor Robert Graham.
 Visitors tentatively rub the archaic religious symbols in an instinctive gesture, as though making physical contact with wonder. Some bring their fingers to their lips for a devotional kiss. Mothers have lifted their babies to the reliefs so that they can feel the church, which was designed by the Spanish architect Rafael Moneo. The talismanic gates, made for this, the first Roman Catholic cathedral to be built in the United States in 40 years, invite visitors into an intimate relationship with the sacred. 
 A monument within a monument, Mr. Graham's 25-ton gates are made up of a pair of 15-foot-tall decorated doors centered at the bottom of a larger pair that are 20feet tall and 30 feet wide. The turtle, condor and some 40 other figures associated with ancient cultures occupy the smaller doors, along with a half-dozen tablets depicting various Virgin Marys from different Latin American cultures. The Virgin of Guadalupe, with her thornless roses, prays above the Virgin of the Rosary of Chichinquira. She in turn reigns in two panels opposite the Virgin of Loreto, who, in her flaring dress, hovers above flying angels. 
Both sets of doors pivot independently beneath a bronze tympanum, a recessed space that that frames Mr. Graham's interpretation of the Virgin. Here she is a serene and regal eight-foot-tall figure that leans forward, eyes closed, arms outstretched, palms up in an attitude of spiritual surrender. She floats above a luminous crescent moon, under a gilded circle that glows like a halo in the dependable Southern California sun.
Mr. Graham has given the Virgin ambiguous features, nearly as multicultural as Los Angeles itself -- a Caucasian nose, Asian eyes, African lips, thick American Indian hair. She has none of the aristocratic fragility that is often depicted in European paintings. This new Virgin of the Americas might be local, just off the boardwalk at Venice Beach, or fresh from the fields in the Central Valley. With this image and his array of ancient religious symbols, Mr. Graham ties this 21st-century church both to Catholic traditions and distant mythology. The gates are a Rosetta stone suggesting translations of faith between cultures. 
Lorenzo Ghiberti's 15th-century Gates of Paradise at the Baptistry in Florence, Italy, are perhaps the best known bronze gates in a long and venerable Catholic tradition. But in the last 100 years, the tradition has retreated, a casualty of increasingly secular times and withering economics: sculptors can no longer afford the artisans needed to produce labor-intensive bronze doors. 
Mr. Graham's gates represent four years of work by an unlikely, cigar-smoking art-world figure who subcontracts much of the labor to computer labs. Mr. Graham, 64, earned his Pop Art credentials in the 1960's sculpturing wax figures romping on beds in miniature erotic tableaus encased in acrylic boxes. In the 1970's, he switched mediums, and sensibilities, creating with a clinician's eye anatomically perfect, genitally detailed female bronze figures. He often portrayed his models with pretzellike limbs, or standing rigid in almost Pharaonic poses. If seen in natural light, the figures seem ready to spring. When he digitized his clay sculptures to translate them to the larger scale necessary in public work, Mr. Graham brought an ancient medium into the 21st century. 
Reacting against the commercial gallery scene and what he calls "a floating world" of objects unrelated to their location, Mr. Graham took on public commissions that gave context to his sculpture. Recalling the great murals he saw as a child growing up in Mexico City, and the frescoes he admired in Italy early in his career, Mr. Graham wanted his work to be seen and understood by a wide audience, not just the cognoscenti. In 1984, he created his first nationally prominent site-specific public sculpture, the two male and female figures that topped a gateway through which the Olympic flame was carried into the 1984 Los Angeles Games. 
His belief that art could and should have content beyond its own form was confirmed in 1999, when his monument to Charlie Parker in Kansas City, Mo., was considered as a repository for Parker's remains. "As a reliquary, the monument gained importance," said Mr. Graham, sitting in the haze of his own smoke in his Venice studio, looking prophetic in his mane of thick, wavy gray hair. A pair of bronze angels that never made it to the cathedral tympanum lay on a table in a roiling heap of baroque drapery and limbs. 
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, archbishop of Los Angeles, awarded Mr. Graham the commission for the doors in 1998, commending him not only for his work in the public realm but also for his "exceptional sensitivity to the female figure."
Unlike sculptors working with abstract forms, however, Mr. Graham wanted to fold explicit religious content into his doors, and he immediately plunged into Catholic literature. "I took the religious message seriously," he said, adding, "but of course I had to reinvent it." His nudes had been sexual -- "everyone could understand it," he said. Now his figures needed a collective religious meaning shared by congregants. The character of the nudes that the Cardinal praised had resided in their proud, independent body postures rather than in their faces, which were expressionless. With the heavily draped Virgin Mary, the character migrated from the body to the face.
Mr. Graham's doors have a complex aesthetic relationship with the church, being symbolic and narrative in an abstract setting. Mr. Moneo fragmented the structure, designing a facade with a flying window bay and roof overhangs that are dramatically pitched toward drivers speeding along the adjacent Hollywood freeway. The presence of the gates splits the church's identity into abstract-versus-representational idioms, objective versus subjective -- as if two different artistic voices were debating here. Mr. Moneo's architecture is rooted in a secular aesthetic that he tries to make religious through a play of light, while Mr. Graham uses symbols to conjure an aura of holiness. 
Behind the small squares that support the turtle, condor and other figures, fretted surfaces texture the background; these are "fingerprints" left by a five-axis milling machine driven by a computer. Rodin left his bronzes animated with impressions of his fingers working the clay. The surfaces recorded the process of creation. With the corduroy-type surfaces imprinted by the routers, Mr. Graham expressed the process by which he translated his work to large scale. The computer essentially gave him the equivalent of scores of artisans, without the overhead. "It's like having a studio of 100 people working on the Statue of Liberty," he said. "All those hands." 
Mr. Graham's gates, then, are "smart." While the computer's logarithmic intelligence was instrumental in Mr. Moneo's angular design (there are few right angles), it is sublimated in Mr. Graham's concept for the gates. The computer doesn't open up a new art for the sculptor, altering his vision, but remains its servant. Nor does the computer invade the Catholicism of the gates as a double agent working surreptitiously for the forces of a new secular humanism. "Technology may allow you to do anything, but you need a reason to do it," he said. 
Resisting the temptation of idolizing the new machine for its feats of technological virtuosity, Mr. Graham deliberately keeps his gates focused on their religious role. They serve primarily as portals into sacred space, passed by people who may know little about art. Parts of the doors are already becoming shiny.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The artist Robert Graham, left, designed an eight-foot-tall multicultural bronze Virgin, right, which stands atop the 25-ton bronze entrance gates, above, at Rafael Moneo's Cathedral of Our Lady of Angels. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (79%); NATIVE AMERICANS (57%) ART; CATHEDRAL OF OUR LADY (LOS ANGELES) 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: GRAHAM, ROBERT; GIOVANNINI, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (71%); LATIN AMERICA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



9 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2777 words

HEADLINE: At Medical Schools, A Time of Change 

BYLINE:  By GALE T. SCOTT

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
IN the weeks since Governor McGreevey unveiled an ambitious plan to reorganize the state's university system, alternating currents of hope and fear have been pulsing through faculty members and administrators who could be affected by such a vast change.
 The goal of the governor, simple enough in its complexity, is the consolidation of the state's universities -- Rutgers, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, which has eight health education-related schools, and the New Jersey Institute of Technology -- with an emphasis on improving medical education and building a national reputation for research. 
 As for the more than 13,000 teachers, administrators and support staff whose state-financed jobs could be swept up in this effort, the issue is equally simple: job security.
The fear, doctors and faculty members say, is that there is a hidden agenda focusing on cutting costs by using the restructuring as a cover to nullify existing agreements on tenure, staffing and job security.
"The faculty is nervous," said Dr. Larry Frohman, a neurological ophthalmologist at University Hospital in Newark, part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. "Many of us think is that this is about money, not excellence. My feeling is that the commission was handed its conclusions before the report was written." 
The plan, unveiled in October by a commission appointed by Governor McGreevey, recommended that the three research universities be recast as a single university of 64,000 students with semiautonomous campuses in Newark, New Brunswick and Camden. It also recommended consolidating leadership of the proposed new university by creating the position of chancellor. The commission that produced the 114-page report was headed by Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, a retired chief executive of Merck & Company who is a former faculty member of several medical schools.
The plan has been embraced by the New Jersey Institute of Technology and tepidly endorsed by Rutgers. But current and former officials at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey have been highly critical of the proposed merger, which is not surprising since the commission report lamented the school's reputation and said acidly that "the goal of excellence has not been achieved."
The volley was recently returned by Stanley S. Bergen, former president of the university, who said: "The report's methodology is inconsistent and poorly documented. It scrutinizes U.M.D.N.J. under a microscope, examines Rutgers with the naked eye, and glances at N.J.I.T. through a telescope."
Any reorganization would require the approval of the State Legislature and take years to put in place. First the governor plans to appoint a task force that will develop a blueprint for creating the new university. As Mr. McGreevey has frequently said, his overarching goal is the improvement of the state's medical schools, with the goal of attracting tens of millions of dollars in federal and private grants for medical and biotechnical research.
"If they do this thing right, if it's really about excellence, then it is all wonderful news," said Gordon Thomas, a professor of physics and biomedical researcher at the New Jersey Institute of Technology who was recruited from Massachusetts Institute of Technology two years ago. The institute, with 8,900 students, is the smallest of the universities named in the report with colleges of engineering, architecture, computer science, and liberal arts and science.
"The idea of making a world-class university with more collaboration among colleagues is fabulous," said Dr. Thomas. "But it matters how they do it. It will take resources."
But faculty members interviewed elsewhere were skeptical of the plan. In a state with a $4 billion deficit projected for the fiscal year 2004, the higher education budget makes a fat target, said Liz Raveche, a cancer researcher and president of the American Association of University Professors at the University of Medicine and Dentistry, which represents professors at all three schools.
"The elephant in the room that no one wants to talk about is what happens to contracts and tenure," Dr. Raveche said.
According to the University of Medicine and Dentistry in New Jersey, nearly 19 percent, or 425 of the faculty's 2,246 members, have tenure.
"If the organization you were working for doesn't exist and there's a new organization, it seems obvious that there's no more contract," she said.
According to the National Education Association, teachers should not assume that tenure -- or jobs -- will continue because such agreements automatically come up for renegotiation when schools are dissolved.
"These faculty members do need to be concerned," said Rachel Hendrickson, coordinator for the education association's higher education program. "Obviously the N.E.A. strongly believes it is everyone's best interest for contracts and tenure to continue, but there are no guarantees."

No Word on Tenure
When Governor McGreevey's office was asked about the issue of tenure, it referred the question to Dr. Vagelos, who declined to discuss the matter.
"We're not going to talk about tenure and staffing yet," he said, "What we did say is we would set up a task force to review and implement the plan and will deal with all such items going forward."
Yet some of the faculty at the University of Medicine and Dentistry conceded that losing some tenured staff and renegotiating contracts might not be all bad.
"I can think of several people in my department who really ought to step down," said one scientist from the Rutgers University campus in Newark, who asked not to be identified. "Medical research has moved so fast that many people just have not been able to keep up.'
And Dr. Frohman said efforts to run University Hospital smoothly were frustrated by union "bumping" rules.
"I can fire someone for not doing their job, but if that person has seniority, he or she is back on the job the next day," he said. "The rules force us to dismiss the last person we hired."
At the center of the debate has been Dr. Vagelos, who was invited by Governor McGreevey to head the commission by way of a request that came through former Gov. Brendan Byrne as the two played tennis one afternoon last year at the doctor's home.
In a recent interview, Dr. Vagelos readily agreed that more money would have to be spent on medical education. "The difference between where we are now and being in the top 10 is about $141 million," he said.
Last year, New Jersey spent about $42 million on each of its medical schools as against a state average nationwide of $57 million, Dr. Vagelos noted, adding that on average, the top 10 schools each spent $181 million supporting their medical schools.
While he saw the need for more money for such things as student housing, something U.M.D.N.J. does not have, he also said that costs had to be controlled by making all of the schools accountable to one chancellor. 
Standing in the way of changes right now is a balky state economy, though Dr. Vagelos expressed optimistism that things would pick up, in part by growth in the areas of pharmaceuticals and biotechnology.
In the meantime, U.M.D.N.J. has already begun a $500 million building project in Newark, and there is construction going on at Rutgers as well. "It's a good time to reprogram," he said.
Helping to chart a new course, Dr. Vagelos and his committee enlisted the help of McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm in McLean, Va., which conducted the research.
Along with Ruth Charbonneau, director of policy and research for the New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services, four members of the consulting firm visited several medical schools around the country, reporting back to the commission members.
Later this month, the governor's task force is expected to begin meeting to decide how to implement the recommendations as well as come up with cost estimates and specific steps to move the consolidation along. According to the governor, legislation on the actual restructuring will be introduced early next year.
The report by Dr. Vagelos's committee -- which envisions a system similar to that of the University of California, linking the state's medical schools and colleges -- was highly critical of what it saw as the mediocre reputation of the University of Medicine and Dentistry.
That judgment was based, at least in part, on its conclusion that many of the slots in the medical school's residency programs have gone unfilled or have been granted to graduates of foreign medical schools -- often considered a reflection of whether the school enjoys a good reputation.
Dr. Vagelos said he was taken aback by a counterattack from the medical school, which has included a 6,000-word critique written by Dr. Bergen, the former president of the university, along with his successor, Dr. Stuart Cook.
"They think I'm the devil, trying to bring down the medical school," Dr. Vagelos said in a recent interview. "Nothing could be further from the truth. The idea is not to destroy but improve."
The university's critique took issue with the plan's methodology and its finding that the state's medical schools -- the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in New Brunswick and the New Jersey Medical School in Newark -- had failed to attract top-caliber researchers.

Concern for the Poor
Dr. Frohman of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey said his doctors were particularly concerned about the possibility of cuts in medical services provided to the poor.
Though the report made a point of commending the hospital for its service to the indigent and favored having it remain part of the medical school, it also concluded, "Were losses at University Hospital to mount, the university and the state should consider a separate ownership structure."
In Newark, University Hospital pays for almost 70 percent of the care for the uninsured through "Charity Care," a state-financed program.
That includes the bills of patients like one 70-year-old patient treated recently by Dr. Roger Turbin, an assistant professor of ophthalmology at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and director of ophthalmic trauma at University Hospital.
The patient had gone lost the sight in his right eye after a stroke.
In many hospitals there would have been little doctors could do, said Dr. Turbin. But within an hour of visiting his eye doctor, the man was in a University Hospital surgical suite with a team of specialists.
Dr. Turbin and others performed a delicate experimental procedure -- one that usually costs about $20,000 -- in which they threaded a one-millimeter diameter catheter through an artery in the patient's groin all the way to his right eye. They then used the catheter to inject a drug that dissolved a clot and allowed the patient to regain his sight.
Among Dr. Turbin's concerns is whether a reorganization would result in the reassignment of some colleagues to one of the university's other medical school facilities. Its students and medical residents also work in Robert Wood Johnson Hospital in New Brunswick and Cooper Hospital in Camden.
Unlike University Hospital -- which is owned by U.M.D.N.J. -- those hospitals are private not-for-profit corporations.
"We are in a centralized location, with multiple services available to us instantly," Dr. Turbin said. "If the university is broken up, and those services go to different areas, patients might not even get in to see us. I just don't see what they would accomplish in separating the medical schools."
But Robert Altenkirch, president of the New Jersey Institute of Technology, said the merger could result in better care for patients, and not just in New Jersey.
"I'm very much in favor of the restructuring," Dr. Altenkirch said. "The walls between practical medicine and lab science, particularly enhanced computing and engineering, are coming down."
As a result, he said, the latest developments will be able to move from the research lab to doctors with a minimum of bureaucracy. 
And so the debate goes on. With every voice in opposition, there is seemingly a voice of optimism. Supporters share a vision that the state's three state medical schools will become Harvards on the Passaic, Raritan, and Delaware.
"All the feedback I've gotten on the plan has been very positive," said Dr. William Hait, director of the Cancer Institute of New Jersey who was also a member of the Vagelos committee. "There have been too many artificial separations of institutions that are already working together."
At the University of California at San Diego, Dr. Edward W. Holmes, vice chancellor for health sciences and dean of the school or medicine, said the plan to put U.M.D.N.J. and Rutgers into the same state university system was "definitely the way New Jersey should go."
"When a school of medicine sits at the center of a campus, everyone benefits," Dr. Holmes said. "The scientists see their fundamental discovery translated into patient care. Breakthroughs tend to take place at the margins when engineering, physics, and medicine come together."
As for an argument raised by some faculty members at U.M.D.N.J. that the school, founded in 1970, was too new to be the best, Dr. Holmes disagreed. "Our school didn't exist 35 years ago," he said. "We've been ranked fourth in the nation."
But California invested more money. According to the Vagelos commission's report, in 2001 California contributed $116,000 for each medical student at San Diego. By contrast, New Jersey contributed $75,000 per student at New Jersey Medical School in Newark and $85,000 at Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in New Brunswick.
Beyond the state's financing, the governor and others who want to change the system contend that too much grant money from pharmaceutical companies and the federal government is going to schools in other states.
Though New Jersey attracts $10 billion a year in private research spending, according to the New Jersey Commission on Science and Technology, it ranks 24th among states receiving grants from the National Institutes of Health -- with its 2003 budget listing 588 awards totaling $182 million.
Just as jarring, two of New Jersey's pharmaceutical giants, Merck and Company and Novartis AG. this year opened major new research laboratories -- in Massachusetts. In news releases, both companies said the availability of top researchers and medical schools in the Boston area weighed heavily in their decisions.
As Dr. Holmes of California put it, grant money follows the research talent.
"The reputation of New Jersey's medical schools outside the state is that they are average, above average in some areas," he said. "They shouldn't be average in any area. It just isn't good enough."

Fears About Newark
There is another issue that few are eager to discuss on the record -- the ability of any university located in Newark to attract top students and researchers, several faculty and deans interviewed said.
Despite efforts to revitalize the city, it still engenders a bunker mentality in many commuters. Crime and the fear of crime has led to the need to post armed guards at faculty parking lots, and for them to escort workers to their cars after dark.
"Newark can be bleak," said Ricki Goldman, a professor of information systems at N.J.I.T. "There's no place to eat, no place to shop, nowhere to get a cup of coffee." Despite those reservations, she expressed optimism about a restructuring, saying, "It could mean more interdisciplinary work, better connections with industry, increased opportunity for research."
Dr. Vagelos acknowledged the problems, saying, "Newark is not Palo Alto."
But he said it could change, citing the strategy used to attract residents and businesses to the frayed West Philadelphia neighborhood surrounding the University of Pennsylvania -- like giving developers land with an agreement that they would build housing and schools,
"West Philly has been transformed from what it was 10 years ago," Dr. Vagelos said. "It's a real success."
His plans for the University Heights section of Newark include building student housing, and from that he said he was confident that merchants would follow.
"A lot of the great medical schools are in bad urban neighborhoods," he said. 
That is where the "best" patients are, he said, people who because of poverty, lack of health insurance, and other gaps that separate their daily lives from those of people in more affluent suburbs, are sicker and more likely to get injured. 
Those are the patients from whom doctors can learn the most, he said.
"I'm betting that 5 or 10 years from now Newark will be home to an exciting, bustling, vibrant university," Dr. Vagelos said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the proposed reorganization of the universities in New Jersey misstated the affiliation of Dr. Elizabeth Raveche. She is president of the faculty organization at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. (The president of the university's chapter of the American Association of University Professors is Dr. Talib Najjar.)
An article on Dec. 8 about the proposed reorganization of the state universities in New Jersey misstated the level of state financing for its medical schools in 2001. According to the State Commission on Health Science, Education and Training, the National Institutes of Health contributed $38.1 million to the New Jersey Medical School and $46.7 million to Robert Wood Johnson Medical School last year for biomedical research, as against an average of $57 million apiece for state-affiliated medical schools nationwide. The 10 best-financed state-affiliated medical schools received an average of $181 million apiece.
In state financing, New Jersey Medical School received $75,000 per student and Robert Wood Johnson Medical School $85,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Liz Raveche, top left, a researcher and president of the American Association of University Professors at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, is wary of "what happens to contracts and tenure." Dr. Roger Turbin, above, assistant professor of ophthalmology, is concerned about the hospital's poorer patients. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); For about 13,000 employees with state-financed jobs -- including those at New Jersey Medical School -- job security is a concern.; In photo at left, Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, right, confers with Harvey Holzberg, chairman of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. Dr. Larry Frohman, above, a neurological ophthalmologist at University Hospital, said, "The faculty is nervous."; Dr. Roger Turbin, an assistant professor of ophthalmology, treats Richard P. Muscatello, a former Superior Court judge, at University Hospital in Newark. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); DENTISTRY (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MERGERS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (68%); APPROVALS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (93%); MERCK & CO INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (59%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (65%); MRK (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



10 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Use of Hicksville Rail Yard Questioned 

BYLINE:  By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
LEADERS of a Hicksville civic group are up in arms over an agreement to abandon railroad freight operations in Garden City and to step up freight traffic in Hicksville. 
 They say that freight operations have ceased in Hicksville, and they want to keep it that way. Railroad officials disagree. They say that although freight in Hicksville has slowed to a molasses pace, operations there have never stopped completely. 
 The civic association says it was caught by surprise by the agreement and learned of it only after it was announced. "Why were we kept in the dark?" said Gregory Yatzyshyn, a trustee of the NorthWest Civic Association, which represents 150 families in the northwest section in Hicksville. "We don't understand. Why were we not treated equally with Garden City? Just because Garden City has money or influence, why should everything be dumped in Hicksville? It appears that Garden City has more money than Hicksville, which is why we consider it economic discrimination."
The freight yard in Garden City is at the site of the former Roosevelt Raceway near Stewart Avenue. The Hicksville freight yard is on West John Street opposite Cantiague Park.
After learning of what Anthony Sorvillo, another trustee, called a "sweetheart deal" in August 2001, the civic association's members met with representatives of the L.I.R.R. and the New York & Atlantic Railway, which began freight operations using L.I.R.R. tracks in 1997. But the civic group was not satisfied with the answers from L.I.R.R. officials, and in September it filed a Freedom of Information request with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the L.I.R.R.'s parent. The civic group is seeking documents on the L.I.R.R.'s use of the Hicksville yard from January 1965 through December 1997 in an effort to rebuff the railroad's contention that the yard is not being reopened but rather has never been closed.
Mr. Sorvillo, who lives about eight blocks from the Hicksville freight yard, said he had been told by railroad personnel that since 1965 the yard had been used exclusively by rail and signal maintenance crews. "We can see that no trucks come in and out of there," he said. "We're not blind."
Bruce Lieberman, the chairman of the New York & Atlantic Railway, said it was understandable that residents had not noticed freight traffic at the Hicksville yard because there has been so little of it. In the last year, he said, only about a dozen freight cars were unloaded there.
"That's about one a month," he said. "We're not going to cap it at that -- obviously we are trying to get more freight -- but understand the size of this. What do they think is going to happen? Less than 3 percent of the freight coming to Long Island is by rail. It was down to almost nothing five years ago." 
Nicholas P. Episcopia, the president of the Eastern Property Owners Association of Garden City, which has about 2,000 members, said that he did not know of anyone who sought special privileges to keep the yard closed. "I have no idea what they are talking about," he said.
Mr. Episcopia said that when there was discussion in the late 1990's about reopening the freight yard, the community asked only that an environmental impact study be conducted first. "If the environmental impact study had shown no adverse impact, there would have been nothing we could do about it," he said. "But the railroad switched gears and decided to abandon it."
Brian Dolan, an L.I.R.R. spokesman, said that the decisions involving the Hicksville and Garden City freight yards were part of a larger transaction involving the East Side Access Project. The access project, to be completed in 2012, will allow Long Island passengers the option of going to Grand Central Terminal instead of Pennsylvania Station. As part of the access project, Mr. Dolan said, in August 2001, the L.I.R.R. and the New York & Atlantic agreed to transfer some of their freight yards in a move that benefited them both.
"The New York & Atlantic Railway transferred to the Long Island Rail Road two freight properties in Long Island City, Yard A and the Arch Street Yard, which are needed for early construction on the access project," Mr. Dolan said. "In addition, it transferred the Garden City freight yard in exchange for the Hicksville yard, which at the time we shared with them."
Mr. Dolan confirmed that the Garden City yard had not been used for freight in years. As Mr. Lieberman put it: "To bring stuff to Garden City, you have to travel up the extension and go out to the yard. But we pass Hicksville all the time. And part of the function of the yard is that we don't often unload cars there but leave them for later delivery."
In giving up its half of the Hicksville yard, the L.I.R.R. agreed to move its rail and signal maintenance crews, 75 employees in all, and their equipment to the Garden City yard. 
Mr. Lieberman said that there were no plans to increase the size of the Hicksville yard. "There is no physical space to expand," he said. "What you see is what you get. The yard is ringed by industrial buildings, and I don't think any of them are going away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Garden City yard is used by L.I.R.R. maintenance crews, who store cranes and snow equipment there. (Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL FREIGHT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TRAINS (78%); FAMILY (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



11 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Suozzi Unveils Development Plan 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY 

 BODY:
WHEN Long Island's population exploded after World War II, it did so without any overall plan.
 In fact, Nassau's first master plan was not adopted till 1998 -- long after the county was already covered with sprawling strip malls, cookie-cutter homes, cul-de-sacs, congested highways and high-tax school districts. 
 Now County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi has come up with a new strategy for tackling the problems of what he calls "America's first mature suburb" and its 1.3 million residents. 
Mr. Suozzi, who took office Jan. 1, outlined his own plans for Nassau at a meeting on Tuesday with about 150 local government, business and civic leaders.
Heading his list of goals are reviving the older downtowns, preserving open space, attracting businesses with high-paying jobs, redeveloping polluted sites, expanding the tax base and building moderate-priced housing for beginning workers and retirees and promoting tourism, sports and entertainment.
"We're trying to give people a clear road map on what will make this a better county," Mr. Suozzi said in an interview. 
In that vein Mr. Suozzi unveiled a new map that organizes the county into 35 economic development zones. The map sets the stage for the next phase, in which local officials and neighborhood groups will meet and start drafting specific projects for their areas. A similar effort is already under way to revive beleaguered Roosevelt.
A major obstacle to planning in Nassau has been its Balkanization into dozens of municipalities and hundreds of special districts. Mr. Suozzi's new economic development zones attempt to bridge those boundaries by grouping similar neighborhoods together. For example, Zone 18 combines East Meadow, Levittown and Salisbury.
Mr. Suozzi was flanked by numerous local leaders who praised the concept. They included the supervisors of Nassau's three towns: Richard V. Guardino Jr. of Hempstead, John Venditto of Oyster Bay, both Republicans, and May W. Newburger of North Hempstead, a Democrat, as is Mr. Suozzi.
Others joining in the announcement included village officials and leaders of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Long Island Association, a leading civic and business group.
Because of the helter-skelter growth of the past, "what we ended up with is a hodgepodge," Mr. Suozzi said at a news conference after the meeting. "It wasn't planned for."
Now Nassau needs to guide its own future and identity, Mr. Suozzi said. "We're not just a bedroom community of New York City anymore," he said. Describing Nassau as "between Queens and Suffolk" in development as well as in geography, he said that preserving the county's suburban character was paramount. 
While Mr. Suozzi is focusing on Nassau's problems, he also said that the county needs to retain and build on its many strengths. They include a highly skilled work force, numerous beaches and parks, top-rated schools and hospitals, rising property values and the lowest crime rate for a county of its size.
Leaders of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit research and advocacy group for the metropolitan region, previewed Mr. Suozzi's proposal and gave it high marks.
"We are very much behind the things he is doing on planning on Long Island, and he is absolutely headed in the right direction," said a spokesman for the association, Jeremy Soffin. The group's president, Robert Yaro, described the proposal as "visionary." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); TOURISM (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); RETAILERS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



12 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
A Daunting Task for Computer Associates' Chief

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
DAVID H. PEIREZ'S first impression of Sanjay Kumar came about two years ago. Mr. Peirez, a corporate lawyer in Garden City, met Mr. Kumar, then the second in command at Computer Associates International in Islandia, when they both arrived at a breakfast meeting about the same time.
 Most of the meeting's details have been forgotten, Mr. Peirez, a senior partner in Reisman Peirez & Reisman, said last week, but he has not forgotten Mr. Kumar's quiet authority and regular-guy manner. Later that year, Mr. Peirez volunteered his support -- unbidden, he said -- when Computer Associates' management came under attack from Sam Wyly, the Texas investor who sought control of the company's board. 
 "Sanjay drove a regular car, not a Bentley or something hyperluxurious," said Mr. Peirez, who spearheaded a coalition aimed at keeping the company on Long Island. "He drove himself, instead of being driven. I came away with the impression of Sanjay as a very open guy who doesn't mince words." 
With the abrupt resignation on Nov. 18 of Charles B. Wang as Computer Associates' chairman and Mr. Kumar's promotion to the top spot, speculation on the company's future has been rife. Very much at the center of the speculation is Mr. Kumar, who at 40 now holds the three top positions -- chairman, president and chief executive -- at the world's fifth-largest software company. Having helped run the company for nearly a decade, he now must demonstrate that he can steer it back into profitability after it posted $1 billion loss its last fiscal year, which ended March 31.
The other challenges facing him are considerable. The list includes a criminal investigation into the company's accounting methods, a probe by government securities regulators, loss of investor confidence, image problems among corporate customers, and dismal forecasts for the entire information technology sector.
Some Long Islanders are watching the change of command from a purely local perspective. Computer Associates is the Island's largest company in terms of market value, and more than any other, it has replaced the Grumman Corporation as the symbolic center of the regional economy. 
From that vantage point, the appointment of Mr. Kumar, who lives in Oyster Bay, was widely welcomed. "Computer Associates is a Long Island company, and Sanjay is a Long Islander," said Peter Goldsmith, the president of the Long Island Technology Network. "His appointment is good news."
Generally, Mr. Kumar has gotten good reviews from analysts, fund managers and others who track the company. "Sanjay gets it," said Betsy Burton, an analyst for Gartner Inc. in its San Jose, Calif., office. "Sanjay understands how to work with partners, how to manage market perception, how to deal with the press and deal with analysts. He has better interactive skills." 
Mr. Wang, who shepherded Computer Associates from a struggling start-up to the ranks of America's biggest companies, with 15,000 employees, drove growth largely through acquisitions, hard-nosed negotiating and the cultivation of what critics called a Darwinian work-place culture.
He also rewarded himself and other insiders handsomely. Mr. Wang, Mr. Kumar and Russell Artzt, the executive vice president for research, claimed more than $1.1 billion in bonuses in 1998, based on the company's market value. Shareholders rebelled; the three gave back about half the bonus pay. How the company determined its value in the years 1995 through 1998 is the subject of two federal investigations.
Robert Gordon, a spokesman for the company, said the resignation of Mr. Wang, 58, would have no effect on the two probes.
Mr. Wang's departure, announced as a retirement although he is not receiving a pension, stirred conjecture that the company was seeking to distance itself from him. Michael Faltischek, the managing partner in Ruskin Moscou Faltischek in Uniondale and the chairman of the law firm's corporate governance practice group, said that the circumstances surrounding his exit suggested that Computer Associates was taking "remedial steps."
"If management has been abusive, you have to change the people running the company in order to change perception," he said. "If remedial steps are taken, probably government officials will not seek full sanctions. Pre-empting their actions will not only soften the regulatory blow but serve the secondary purpose of rebuilding corporate integrity."
There was little in the early years of Computer Associates to suggest it would grow into one of the biggest and, for a while, one of the most profitable enterprises in the United States. The company was founded by Mr. Wang and several partners in 1976, and they took the company public in 1981. During the 1980's and most of the 1990's, as the information technology sector ballooned, so did the company's revenues and profits. 
The company's rapid growth -- sales this year are expected to reach $3 billion -- came as Computer Associates solidified its position in the mainframe computer business, producing the software that operates and connects large computers, while expanding into storage technology, wireless products and high-tech security systems. 
Like many of the company's employees, Mr. Kumar joined the business as a result of a merger. A Sri Lanka native from a Tamil family, Mr. Kumar and his relatives fled the ethnic violence in their homeland and in 1976 moved to Greenville, S.C., where his mother had been hired to teach in a private school. He joined Computer Associates in 1987 when it absorbed the Uccel Corporation, a small Texas software company where he worked as a product manager.
Within Computer Associates' rough-and-tumble corporate culture, Mr. Kumar's lack of a college degree did not hold him back. Rather, his life story struck a chord with Mr. Wang, who had followed a similar path, immigrating as a boy with his family from Shanghai to Queens, where he learned computer skills at Queens College. Mr. Wang made Mr. Kumar his assistant, relocating him and his wife, Sylvia, to Long Island. They eventually bought a house next door to Mr. Wang in Oyster Bay. A rapid series of promotions followed, to president in 1994 to and chief executive in 2000.
Mr. Kumar has already begun to put his mark on Computer Associates. In the last three years it has invested $2 billion in research and development, nearly twice the amount spent in the prior three years, said Yogesh Gupta, the chief technology officer. 
Earlier this year, Mr. Kumar instituted a new compensation plan that ties managers' pay to customer satisfaction, Mr. Gupta said. "We have been measuring customer satisfaction for four years running," he said. "But this year, for the first time, hundreds of managers will have their pay determined by how customers rate their satisfaction."
On Oct. 31, Mr. Kumar announced the appointment of Robert B. Lamm, a former director of the American Society of Corporate Secretaries, as the company's corporate secretary and director of corporate governance, a new position. The appointment came only weeks after Mr. Kumar said that the company would adhere to what he called a "gold standard" in corporate governance.
"The organizational vision is there," Ms. Burton, the Gartner analyst, said of Mr. Kumar. "But I don't know that he has gotten the right team in place yet to do that. Sanjay is in many respects raised by Charles Wang. I think he is going to take a broader view than Charles did, but I don't think it has trickled down through the company. At least not yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanjay Kumar, 40, took over as the chairman of Computer Associates International, based in Islandia, after Charles B. Wang, 58, resigned on Nov. 18. (John Rizzo/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SECURITIES LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CA INC (95%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (63%); GARTNER INC (60%); REISMAN PEIREZ & REISMAN LLP (58%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (95%); NOC (NYSE) (63%); IT (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (63%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (63%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (63%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (63%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



13 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
Balancing A Budget On an Ax

BYLINE:  By DIANA MARSZALEK

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
FACED with years of financial woes, bound by a long-disputed property tax cap and a strained relationship with its state representative, the city of New Rochelle would have to lay off 16 firefighters and leave 18 vacancies on the police force unfilled under its proposed 2003 budget.
 While many municipalities -- and the county itself -- are struggling with budget shortfalls, New Rochelle is feeling a particularly acute pinch this year. 
 The proposed budget cuts -- which would likely lead to the elimination of an entire firehouse -- would significantly reduce the police and fire services New Rochelle residents currently receive, city officials said. The fire department roster would drop to 142 firefighters from 158 -- down from 180 in 1991. With the current unfilled vacancies, the police department has 164 officers. 
"As far as the fire department goes, you might as well put a nail in the door if we lose these guys," said Fire Commissioner Raymond F. Kiernan. "It will just not be the same organization."
Mr. Kiernan said that not only would the Drake Avenue firehouse, which has served the city's south side since the 1880's, likely be a casualty, but the fire department also may have to stop answering emergency medical calls and refer them to a private ambulance company. Approximately half the 8,000 calls the department receives each year are for medical emergencies, he said.
"We would have to fold up and go back into the fire business only," Mr. Kiernan said. "We would have a fire department as small as it was in the Great Depression."
Local leaders say they have no choice but to slash the city's police and fire departments -- two departments they have long tried to preserve -- if they are going to have the required balanced budget.
In the $110 million budget proposal, leaving 18 police officer positions unfilled would save $946,000 and laying off 16 firefighters would save $960,000. The budget proposes reducing garbage collection to once a week, eliminating street sweeping and reducing financing to the library and programs for the elderly to save a total of $4.4 million. 
Though Assemblyman Ronald C. Tocci, who represents New Rochelle in the State Legislature, said it is the city's duty to preserve its police and fire services, city officials said they have done so for so long by reducing other departments that they have no choice. Unless Albany releases the city from a tax cap that leaves it with few options for raising money, there is virtually no relief in sight, they said. 
"The bottom line is we don't have any money and all we do is cut, cut, cut," said City Manager Charles B. Strome. "The policemen are protesting about their manpower and I don't disagree."
Not cutting the budgets of core departments -- police and fire, public works, recreation and library -- is certainly a priority but now only a fantasy, Mr. Strome said. 
While other municipalities are also facing budget shortfalls, New Rochelle's woes are hitting harder because the city cannot increase its property tax rate to meet its needs the way other cities can.
Under a nearly decade-old agreement with the state, New Rochelle cannot raise its property tax rate more than 1.7 percent each year without forfeiting its sales tax rate, which is 1.5 percent higher than the 6.75 percent countywide base. Rye, for example, is considering a 29 percent property tax increase and Westchester County is considering a 28.6 percent increase. Currently, New Rochelle's sales tax revenues are $9 million higher than they would be without the additional 1.5 percent, according to Mr. Strome. 
In addition, local leaders say Albany, which gives New Rochelle a disproportionately low amount of supplemental and per capita state aid -- the only two kinds of state money that can be used for operating expenses -- is slighting them. New Rochelle, which has 72,000 residents, receives $465,000 a year in supplemental aid. Yonkers, with 195,000 people, receives $46.9 million. White Plains, which has 50,000 residents, receives $1 million, according to Mr. Strome. 
"No other municipality in New York has the fiscal constraints we have," said Mayor Timothy C. Idoni. "And we are the seventh largest city in the state."
The complexities with the state have led to a strained relationship between New Rochelle officials and Mr. Tocci. That was particularly evident in the recent Democratic primary, in which New Rochelle City Councilman Noam Bramson defeated Mr. Tocci, the incumbent. Mr. Tocci, who then ran as a Republican, defeated Mr. Bramson in the November election.
M AYOR IDONI, who struck the original tax cap agreement with Mr. Tocci when the city was luring Costco and Home Depot to town, said that he agreed to just a two-year tax cap and that the cap made sense when sales tax revenues grew with the strong economy.
Mr. Idoni said, however, Mr. Tocci's refusal to support dropping the property tax cap despite repeated requests from the city over the past six years essentially means Mr. Tocci reneged on the original deal and New Rochelle is suffering as a result.
"We've been begging for state aid for two years to keep this from happening," Mr. Idoni said. "This is the result of either political indifference or our state legislator's inability to get it done."
Mr. Tocci, on the other hand, said that the city is reeling from years of financial mismanagement and that city officials should preserve its police and fire departments without further burdening taxpayers.
"In a budget of $110 million the first question should be how much the city needs for police and fire departments," Mr. Tocci said.
He said he continually strives to promote New Rochelle's needs in the State Legislature, noting a $500,000 emergency grant last August that enabled the city to postpone the fire department layoffs until February.
New Rochelle taxpayers have twice rejected a library tax that would have freed up money in the city's operating budget.
City leaders say the toll of sparing the police and fire departments would be small for the average New Rochelle homeowner. The 10 percent increase it would require would mean adding $200 a year on the average property tax bill, Mr. Strome said.
Meantime, however, that is not an option, as city councilmen are pressed to adopt the 2003 budget by the end of this year.
And unless circumstances change, this won't be the last bleak budget for New Rochelle.
"We can make the cuts this year," Mr. Strome said. "And next year we're going to have to do it all over again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Drake Avenue firehouse, which has served New Rochelle's south side since the 1880's, is likely to close as a result of the city's proposed 2003 budget cuts. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); FUNDRAISING (67%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



14 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE; 
Bold Design for Ferry Terminals, Or Landings on the Half Shell?

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
In public art, should the emphasis be on "public" or "art"? The East River ferry has become a new stage for this old debate. 
 While most East Siders are excited by the commuter ferry service that should be in place on the East River by the end of next year, some say the bold modern design of the ferry landings lacks local flavor. 
 "They've got a shell for the shelter that swoops up and comes back down," said M. Barry Schneider, president of the East 60's Neighborhood Association. "It's almost bulbous in nature. Some of us thought it was just design for design's sake. It didn't lend a lot of good feeling." 
The landings, which will be situated at East 90th, 75th, 62nd and 34th Streets, as well as at the Battery Maritime building in Lower Manhattan, were designed by Sheila Kennedy and Frano Violich. The $20 million project awaits final approval from the city's Art Commission.
Slim wind turbines will help power the lights at the terminals. Global positioning systems will be used to give passengers information about the progress of ferries. Concrete and plexiglass bollards powered by solar cells will glow blue when deprived of light, at night or when someone sits on them.
In January, the project earned the prestigious Progressive Architecture award, and it has garnered recognition elsewhere. But to some, such award-winning boldness smacks of hubris. 
"They remind me of the T.W.A. building at Kennedy, which looks kind of like a clam," said Terry Grace, who lives in the East 70's. "I would have liked to see something much more modest."
The architects disagree. "The aluminum picks up reflections from the water," said Luis Boza, project manager at Kennedy & Violich. "The stone ticket booth is made of masonry blocks that pick up the language of the bulkhead that runs along the river. It's not a completely foreign modern object."
Paul Januszewski, project manager at the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is overseeing the ferry plan, said: "We wanted the design to be something different that you weren't used to seeing, and when you saw it you would know it is a ferry landing. We feel it is a cutting-edge design. We don't expect everyone to be happy with it."
Paul Byard, an architect and the director of the historic preservation program at Columbia University, added: "Architecture is an instrument of leadership. If we do not let it lead, we are impoverishing ourselves." ERIKA KINETZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ferry terminals, shown in rendering, are a $20 million project. (Economic Development Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (94%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); APPROVALS (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (52%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (51%) FERRIES; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); BATTERY MARITIME BUILDING (NYC) 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHEILA; VIOLICH, FRANCO; KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



15 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: URBAN STUDIES/IDLING; 
Whistling Past the Unemployment Office

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER 

 BODY:
THE face of unemployment need not be a fretful mask of clenched teeth and quivering lips. With a few bucks in the piggy bank and a willingness to the see the world as one's personal oyster, joblessness can be amusing, even fun.
 Dave Rippon has been out of work for nearly two months, which is long enough to be concerned, if not terrified. He had a good job with the United States Department of Education in Washington until the Republican armada came to town. 
 A recent morning found him sprawled on the couch of his Manhattan Valley apartment, dissecting the finer points of the "Today" show. Jerry Nadler was talking about his stomach surgery. Bob Dole was judging a karaoke contest. "It's very soothing," Mr. Rippon said.
On the upside, unemployment means having the time to write his memoirs (President Truman once used his grandfather's bathroom) and the chance to take his mother-in-law shopping at Harry's Shoes on the Upper West Side. On the downside, it means worrying about the future, and having a father-in-law who has started wondering if he hasn't lost a daughter so much as gained a bum.
Then there's the money issue. "It's sort of like dying," Mr. Rippon said of when his pockets will finally be empty. "You know it's going to happen, but you can't spend a lot of time thinking about it."
So every day at 9:30 a.m., he gets on the Internet to search for a job. The pickings are slim. A database manager for the League of the Hard of Hearing. An in-store marketing associate at Sears.
The city isn't hiring. The nonprofit world got killed in the stock market. And as for severance pay, Mr. Rippon got two weeks of health insurance and a couple of government pens. He has an impressive employment history stretching back to his college days: horse-manure shoveler, ski salesman, asbestos remover and short-order cook. After grad school, he worked for the Giuliani administration.
Still, after 30 interviews, he hasn't gotten so much as a nibble. But the day was crisp and sunny. Perfect for an adventure. 
The newspaper on the coffee table suggested a plan: the new Eminem movie was playing nearby at 11:45 a.m. On the way, he stopped at Starbucks and made a startling discovery. Of the four people sitting by the window, three were unemployed. "I'm finding it harder and harder to talk to people who have jobs," one of them said wearily. It was depressing. Mr. Rippon left. 
At the box office, he was first in line, and the theater was so empty he could have played football in the aisles. After the movie, he tried going skating in Central Park but the rink was closed. F. A. O. Schwarz, however, was near.
So he strolled through the palace of make-believe, distracting himself with stuffed animals and roller skates. He inquired of a Magic 8-Ball: "Will this story humiliate me?"
Its answer: "My sources say no." ALAN FEUER

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dave Rippon has been out of work for nearly two months. His daily routine includes the Today show. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (68%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (67%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (63%); FILM (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (55%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (57%)

PERSON: JERROLD NADLER (55%) RIPPON, DAVE; FEUER, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



16 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
An Endangered Family-Run Garage

BYLINE:  By NANCY HAGGERTY

 BODY:
TOMPKINS GARAGE, a family-run business in Yorktown that has survived for more than a century, now faces two major threats to its future -- a $1.5 million suit from a neighbor and bills from the state that could top $1 million.
 The garage, originally built to fix wagons, tractors and then Model T's, is suddenly the focus of attention by guardians of the watershed around New York City's reservoirs as well as the state Department of Environmental Conservation. 
 The station's owner, Jimmy Tompkins, 43, said, "I don't have the slightest thought of giving up." But the amounts of money at stake are daunting for a business that he said netted about $60,000 a year. 
The state Department of Environmental Conservation says the Route 129 garage, founded by the Tompkins family in 1890, is the source of a suspected carcinogenic chemical found in groundwater on New York City property abutting the New Croton Reservoir and at a nearby residential property. The chemical, the gasoline additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, commonly referred to as MTBE, is believed to have migrated from the station twice, first following a slow and initially undetected leak in a gas pump line in the late 1990's and then after the spill of an estimated 250 gallons of gas in 2000.
While the reservoir remains clean, MTBE has been found in 13 of 20 test wells, one registering more than 600 times the level judged safe for consumption.
Neither spill is attributed to action by the garage but, as the owner of the gas tanks, it is legally responsible. Mr. Tompkins, who reported both spills, said the first was the fault of a repair company hired to fix a pump and the second was caused by a delivery company whose driver was found guilty in Yorktown Court and fined $1,000 for spilling the gas. Both companies paid for the initial state-supervised cleanup of the pump area.
Mr. Tompkins's lawyer, Larry Wolinsky, said he would sue the two companies responsible for the spills to recoup money related to state-ordered well drilling, testing and cleanup. He estimated final costs around $1 million. That does not include damages relating to a suit filed by Lorraine and Carmine Colarossi, who own a house whose well was first found to be contaminated in 1998. The Colarossis are also suing the trucking company, Mystic Bulk Carriers, for $1.5 million.
The amount of MTBE in their well has now dropped to a level that the water is judged safe to drink, but it remains contaminated with septic waste and salt unconnected to the garage, said Jennifer Post, a conservation department spokeswoman.
Michael B. Kaplowitz, a Westchester County legislator, said Mr. Tompkins's problems were "difficult, problematic but not ultimately a death knell." He argued that state and city environmental officials had failed as watchdogs. Saying a full cleanup should have occurred long ago, he said the delays were a result of either "institutional laziness or callousness" stemming from the "high frequency of such spills."
Ms. Post defended the conservation department, saying, "To have an effective plan we need to know the nature and extent of contamination."
If the conservation department drills wells to intercept contamination, which it is considering, work to pump out, treat and pump water back into the ground could begin within a few months, she said.
Meanwhile, Mr. Tompkins, who lives with his wife, Kathryn, and their two children in the family home next to the garage, said: "We're a little place caught in the middle. We don't know what to do. The D.E.C. acts like this is the Exxon Valdez. It's eating us alive. I'm not against a cleanup. But why try to put me out of business?"
In addition to the bills, Mr. Tompkins, who has owned the garage since 1988, is upset with the city's decision to end his use of a .08-acre parking lot next spring. It is on watershed land across from his station. With the exception of a six-year period when Mr. Tompkins balked at paying rising rent, the garage has leased it since 1931.
Charles Sturchen, a spokesman for the city Department of the Environmental Protection, said his agency was generally trying to eliminate commercial use of watershed land.
"We try to live the best we can with our neighbors in the watershed but some uses don't fit with our mission," he said.
Supervisor Linda G. Cooper of Yorktown, who is a former head of the Yorktown Conservation Board, termed the garage an anomaly because of its proximity to the reservoir.
"It's part of that which defines the Huntersville area and makes it unique until itself," she said. "We're trying to ensure the water quality is not compromised. We want to make sure the remnants of the spill are cleaned up, and we want to protect a longstanding business. I think we all want to preserve the livelihood of someone who does a good job."
Coincidentally, Tompkins Garage was developed as a direct result of the construction of the reservoir. The family, which settled in Yorktown in the 1700's, was forced to give up its farm as part of that project.
After relocating to the current site, Mr. Tompkins's grandfather, Gilbert, the father of 12, began repairing, trading and selling wagons and tractors, and selling apples.
Eventually, Gilbert Tompkins's son, Art Tompkins, took over. For a while tractors were the focal point, but Art Tompkins also started fixing Model T's and other cars, a business that took off.
"The next thing you know they were coming from all directions," recalled his brother, Chester Tompkins, 92. A local blacksmith sometimes fashioned vehicle parts.
The garage was a gathering spot. Neighbors brought over homemade applejack whiskey, and animal pelts were regularly bought and sold there.
The original wooden one-car garage was lost at the start of the 1930's when the road was modernized.
Despite the Depression, Art Tompkins's brother, Henry Tompkins, decided to rebuild and upgrade the site, making the business a full-service station, selling gasoline and repairing cars and trucks in a larger building that Chester designed and helped build.
That brick building, with an addition Jimmy Tompkins built, is today's garage.
Mr. Wilson said the Tompkins family succeeded through good economic times and bad simply because it had a "good name and good mechanics."
Despite the troubles, he appears optimistic, envisioning his son, James, 10, eventually in charge.
James said he wanted to take over after going to college.
"I'd like to run it for as long as I can -- to go a real long time," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tompkins Garage, above, and as it was in the 1930's, with its owner, Henry Tompkins, left. Jimmy Tompkins, the current owner, faces threats to his livelihood because of environmental concerns. (Above and bottom, photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); FUEL ADDITIVES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); BULK SHIPPING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); CARCINOGENS (68%); COUNTIES (60%); TRUCKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



17 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey Offices; 
Making Buildings Better When the Economy Is Bad

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
WHEN the economy goes downhill, it is time to upgrade.
 At least, that is the tack a number of commercial landlords in New Jersey are taking as they make significant renovations and improvements during the current difficult economic times, said Steven M. Frank, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis. "Despite high vacancy rates -- or because of them, in some cases -- some owners are investing in modernizing their buildings or in repositioning them as higher-quality properties," Mr. Frank said. 
 The Mack-Cali Corporation, for example, completed a multimillion dollar renovation of an office building adjacent to the Willowbrook Mall in Wayne earlier this year, installing a new glass entry, granite and limestone lobby and outdoor plaza, and refinishing several tenant common areas. 
Several other office complexes where renovation projects are nearing completion include the M. Alfieri Company's total exterior renovation of its four-building corporate park in Bloomfield (previously the headquarters of the pharmaceutical company Hoffman-LaRoche); the Jack Parker Corporation's upgrade of the Parker Plaza it has owned for 20 years in Fort Lee; and W. P. Commercial's redesign of the Atrium Corporate Park in Somerset.
"It is not an easy decision for many landlords to make to invest in this environment," Mr. Frank noted, "but as we look across all industries, in particular technology and biotechnology, the leaders that will come out of this recession are those who are investing in their product. It is no different in commercial real estate."
With many economists saying that business cycles appear to be shortening, investing before an upturn becomes paramount, Mr. Frank added. Of course, only property owners who have a certain amount of equity in their buildings and whose cash flow is adequate can afford to invest in capital improvements in times like these, he said.
"In the case of the Jack Parker Corporation," said Mr. Frank, who has represented Jack Parker for more than a decade, "with its resources, it has been able to reinvest and further separate its property from the pack. That allows them to keep the existing tenant base happy and confident, and it enables them to attract tenants when other buildings may be perceived as suffering."
Toys "R" Us Inc. occupies the top two floors of Parker Plaza and is looking to sublease 50,000 to 75,000 feet as it consolidates its offices in Wayne, Mr. Frank said. But the building is currently 97 percent leased and has just attracted a new tenant, SK Global, the trading arm of a major South Korean conglomerate, which will relocate from Manhattan next year. SK Global signed a long-term lease for 40,000 square feet, with the understanding that Jack Parker was planning major improvements to the building beginning in the first quarter of 2003.
These include complete renovation of the building's grand atrium, new lighting, furniture, a cafe and an outdoor garden on the sixth floor deck. 
JEAN-PIERRE VAGANAY, chief operating officer for Jack Parker, said, "When a building is more than 90 percent occupied, most owners put things on cruise control." He added, "We believe that the wisest time to spend your money is when things are not going too well."
Mr. Vaganay said there are fewer prospective tenants in the marketplace, and his company wants to make sure its building is in a condition to attract them.
Mr. Vaganay said the cooling system in Parker Plaza was recently replaced, and a third chiller was added to make the system more efficient. "It was not something that had to be done," he said, "but the summer months have become warmer and warmer, and we wanted to increase our cooling capacity so our tenants are comfortable and satisfied."
The roof was also replaced on the building as part of scheduled maintenance, Mr. Vaganay said.
At the Central Park Corporate Campus near the Bloomfield border with Montclair, a whole new look was designed for the generic-looking former pharmaceutical headquarters when it was vacated two years ago.
"We had to decide at the time," said Michael Alfieri, the president of the M. Alfieri Company, "whether to freshen up or to reposition. I would say generally we take a long-term view on real estate. It's mostly about the asset coming first and staying ahead of the curve on keeping the asset contemporary and Class A."
At the Bloomfield campus, Mr. Alfieri said, the issue was this: "We believe in the location, but the buildings are rather cold, and sterile. "So, we took a broader look at it, and asked ourselves. 'If we want to create quality of life in this place, how can we make it a friendly environment?' "
Architects were hired to redesign the campus, rather than simply update it, and last year its appearance was transformed with $10 million in renovations. An energy-efficient green glass curtain wall was installed on the exterior of the building that fronts on Broad Street. The public spaces and lobbies of the buildings behind it were rebuilt with modern, higher-quality materials and the windows all replaced. 
"The last part of the plan," Mr. Alfieri said, "was to completely renovate the landscaping and consolidate the green space for a parklike setting, add a conference room and a cafe, which, all totaled, cost roughly another $10 million. Maybe other landlords wouldn't have kept going with that, given this market, but we had a vision for what the property could be."
Final touches were put on the landscaping, conference room and cafe in November. 
"I think we had to do it all," Mr. Alfieri said. "When we were happy with the environment we created, then it started to sell."
Among the tenants that Central Park Corporate Campus has attracted this year, he said, are Apogee Networks, Country Wide Home Loans, Del Monte, NJ Sports Production, Procter & Gamble and World Audio Visual Enterprises. The total 400,000 square feet at the campus is currently about 75 percent leased, and negotiations are under way that would bring it to 90 percent.
Mr. Alfieri asserted that "Apogee Networks, which is a software company, left a park on Route 80 in Saddle Brook and told us they were taking 25,000 square feet with us because of the park environment." 
Mr. Alfieri said his company was also investing in renovations to its office building at the Metropark train station in Edison. A mezzanine was removed from the 5-story atrium entrance of the 15-story building, to bring in more natural light, "friendliness and warmth." The landscaping was also upgraded, and the elevator system is being computerized. "We wanted to bring the building up with the current competition," he said. 
WP Commercial recently did similar renovation work at its Atrium Corporate Park -- renovating the lobby, elevator cabs and common corridors and installing new walkways and landscaping outside, with future plans to construct a cafe.
"The five-story atrium is a dramatic piece of architecture," said Mark Schaevitz, WP's chief operating officer. "It was built in the 80's, however, and had that cold, imposing kind of look. We think people were turned off."
Also, Merrill Lynch, once the major tenant in the building, has been moving out over the course of several years, although it still occupies part of the space, Mr. Schaevitz said. "This presented us with a leasing challenge in tough times."
Given the current highly competitive situation for landlords, he said: "We felt it was time to redevelop and reposition the image of the building. We took a redesign approach, both with the atrium and with the exterior of the building."
"The old floor was green concrete," he said, "with surrounding tile. It is now black granite, with rich plush carpet. The outside of the building was dark green glass and it had red stripes -- not the aesthetic of today. Now it is a mute black."
Mr. Schaevitz said his company had searched carefully for an architect who would completely redo the building's appearance without "trying to win design awards" and ultimately chose a Manhattan firm, MPFP. 
Mr. Schaevitz agreed with a statement by Mr. Frank of CB Richard Ellis, who said, "In down times, you have to do prudent renovations, spending what cash flow permits." 
Mr. Schaevitz added: "But you can't wait, if you can afford it. When things become more competitive, marketability is as much dependent on image as it is on availability."
Showing a prospective tenant actual improvements, he said, is vastly more effective than showing plans for renovations to be done contingent on the signing of a lease. "After all," Mr. Schaevitz said, "you only get to make a first impression once."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Alfieri at his company's redesigned four-building Central Park Corporate Campus in Bloomfield. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); BUILDING RENOVATION (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: JACK PARKER CORP (84%); TOYS 'R' US INC (63%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MACK-CALI REALTY; CB RICHARD ELLIS 

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (84%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (63%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (63%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE; FRANK, STEVEN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY; WAYNE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



18 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: At Burnt-Out Bank at 125th and Park; 
$9 Million Plan For Rebuilding A Landmark

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
There is still an abundance of ruddy, robust Queen Anne ornamentation to be seen on the facade of the former Mount Morris Bank Building at Park Avenue and 125th Street. Unfortunately, there are other things to be seen, too. Ailanthus saplings growing from entablatures and parapets. Charred timbers akimbo inside the crumbling structural shell. And glimpses of sky through an open expanse where a roof ought to be. 
 It is hard to imagine -- as Ethel Bates does -- that in a few years this poignant wreck will be the Harlem Culinary School, opening restaurant careers for those who cannot afford the well-established cooking institutes. But Ms. Bates may have already survived the hard part. 
 In 1999, even though she was already in talks with the Economic Development Corporation about her plans for the derelict city-owned landmark, the Department of Citywide Administrative Services unexpectedly auctioned off the building to another buyer. Ms. Bates sued and, with the pro bono help of Joseph S. Genova of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy and David W. Weschler of the Legal Aid Society, won a judgment in 2000 from State Supreme Court that the city had failed to follow the proper procedure for the auction, rendering the sale invalid.
With that, talks resumed with Ms. Bates.
"It's a very difficult project to undertake," said Stephen J. Hayes, vice president of the Economic Development Corporation. Although Ms. Bates and her not-for-profit corporation, Resurgence Inc., were willing to take the risk, they had neither the experience nor the resources to redevelop the building themselves. City officials suggested Ms. Bates ally herself with an established builder, after which Carlton Brown of Full Spectrum Building and Development Inc., a Harlem-based concern, joined the negotiations.
"We saw a good project," Mr. Hayes said, "and we were more than happy to provide all the services we could in terms of helping them to find funding and going through the public approval process." The closing on the property is expected this month. Mr. Hayes would not disclose the price but said it would reflect the fact that the building still has some value, even though it is in such bad shape that an appraiser cannot even get inside. In any case, he said, the price will be less than the $535,000 the site commanded at auction in 1999.
Full Spectrum and Resurgence plan to rebuild the six-story structure with stores, a restaurant, office space and the new Harlem Culinary School. The construction loan and permanent financing for the $9 million project is being arranged by Haves Pine & Seligman, a mortgage brokerage.
Ms. Bates said she hoped work on the building might begin early next year but the scope of the project will be hard to determine exactly until the structure can be completely inspected.
The renovation project, designed by Danois Architects, was approved in October by the Landmarks Preservation Commission. Designed by Lamb & Rich, the building was completed in 1883 with banking rooms downstairs (it was later the Corn Exchange Bank) and apartments upstairs. Owned by the city since 1972, it has been vacant since the late 70's, an eyesore whose symbolic power is amplified by its being so visible from the Metro-North station at 125th Street.
"What's really nice," said Sherida E. Paulsen, chairwoman of the landmarks commission, "is that people on the train and people on the ground will all enjoy the restoration. This one, you're going to see from top to bottom." DAVID W. DUNLAP

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mount Morris Bank Building has been an eyesore since the 1970's, but after a newly approved renovation it is to be occupied by the Harlem Culinary School, offices, stores and a restaurant. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); (Animation & Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); AUCTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGAL AID (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (60%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); SUPREME COURTS (52%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; MOUNT MORRIS BANK BUILDING (NYC); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

COMPANY: MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%) HARLEM CULINARY SCHOOL 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (69%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



19 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
An Economy to Be Thankful For

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONCE upon a time, idealists imagined that America could have low interest rates, affordable energy, full employment without inflation and broad access to home ownership. Stocks, bonds and mutual funds, once the province of the rich, would become the domain of the middle class. The poor would be less dependent on welfare. Global trade would accelerate. We'd somehow learn to compete with the Japanese. And the men in the gray flannel suits would give way to casually attired workers of both sexes and many ethnicities.
 Seemed like a pipe dream, didn't it? How strange, then, that we have achieved all these things only to find ourselves surrounded by talk of a sour economy. While it's true that we've retreated from the dizzying heights of the late 90's, it is puzzling to encounter so much unbridled pessimism in the face of such extraordinary success. 
 So enough hand-wringing. It's Thanksgiving weekend, and contrary to what you read, there is plenty in business and the economy to be thankful for. In fact, one marvels at the factors that seem to cause alarm.
Unemployment, for example, has risen in recent years but remains low by historical standards, despite the amazing absorption of millions of women and immigrants into the work force. These new workers have more opportunities than ever -- including a better opportunity to avoid injury or death on the job. Rates of both are at historic lows; since 1933, unintentional workplace fatalities have fallen to about 4 per 100,000, from 37 per 100,000.
Japan is still making work for America's professional worriers, but because of its economic struggles, not its competitive threat. Inflation, meanwhile, which not so long ago afflicted the industrial world at double-digit levels, once seemed intractable. Now it is almost nonexistent, so we're supposed to worry about deflation instead. 
The inflation we do have -- in housing prices -- is supposed to worry us, too. Although we may be in a housing bubble (time will tell), high-priced housing is also a sign of affluence and growth. Despite supposedly inflated prices, the home ownership rate recently hit a remarkable 68 percent, and sales of second homes are strong.
On top of all that, the economy is expanding -- at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 4 percent in the third quarter, up from 1.3 percent in the second quarter. These numbers do not inspire euphoria, but the trend is good. 
If there's plenty to be thankful for, there are, naturally, plenty of things to worry about. Many Americans lack health insurance. Social Security faces an uncertain future. The credibility of our accounting system has been battered, and chief executives continue to pay themselves outlandish amounts regardless of how well other corporate stakeholders are doing. Household debt burdens are scary, too.
But there are always economic issues to fret about. Why are we so worried about a strong, stable economy -- one that seems on the upswing? Well, there was that awful slide on Wall Street, but stock prices appear to have stabilized. Talk of war also has companies and investors spooked. Yet past wars have actually stimulated the economy. 
Worries about terrorism don't help, but among advanced industrial nations the United States should prove unusually resilient in this department, thanks in part to suburban patterns of development and the distributed nature of economic activity. Think of it as sprawl's silver lining.
Another explanation for the economic gloom may be the sharp advertising downturn that started in early 2001. The resulting media recession, including layoffs and other cutbacks, has produced a grimmer-than-usual attitude in the perennially gloomy fourth estate. The industry's concentration in New York and Washington, both of which were struck by terrorists last year, has further darkened the industry's outlook. 
To raise consumer confidence, maybe the Federal Reserve should pay for free massages and other mood enhancers for the nation's journalists. Until then, you can expect to hear more pessimism, even though the current economy is one that economists might have considered darn near utopian just a generation ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (75%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (70%); TRENDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); THANKSGIVING (53%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



20 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3294 words

HEADLINE: For Renters, a Bit Less Sticker Shock 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY'S eye-popping, wallet-flattening residential rents have abated quite a bit over the last year -- particularly in Manhattan -- in the first wide-ranging rollback the city has seen in nearly a decade.
 Communities in the regional ring around the city have, by and large, moved in tandem. But while brokers in most communities report some softening of the market, a few say asking rents in their areas are unchanged or even a bit higher. 
 Estimates of the depth of the decreases in asking rents -- typically ranging from 5 to 15 percent since midyear 2001 -- vary from neighborhood to neighborhood, as well as in their statistical provability. Some are based on detailed analysis of comprehensive samples of recent lease signings, others on the ballpark judgments of local brokers. 
But one certain sign of the downward trend is that in recent months landlords have been advertising incentives to potential tenants: from up to three rent-free months to free health club memberships to, in one case, a "free 51-inch high-definition television -- perfect to fit in our oversized living rooms."
For Andrew Heiberger, president of Citi Habitats, a major Manhattan brokerage, "This is the first time in my 10 years in this business that I've seen rents drop through the summer months" -- usually the busiest season for rentals.
"The market was overheated at its peak in 2000," Mr. Heiberger said, when, according to his company's data, the average rent for an apartment in Manhattan below 96th Street topped $3,100 a month.
"Many people were priced out of the Manhattan market," Mr. Heiberger said. And based on his company's calculations of landlord approval criteria at that time, he said, "The average person needed to earn $162,000 to qualify for an apartment."
"Clearly, Manhattan cannot survive with only six-figure earners," he said. "This is a necessary correction."
To some market observers, it is a welcome correction. With rents in many sections of the other boroughs -- though certainly not in all -- receding in recent months, Prof. Michael Schill, director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law, said: "Certainly, in a city like New York, with some of the highest rents in the country, lower housing costs are good news for a large number of households. One problem the city has faced in recent years is a difficulty in providing affordable housing for the middle class."
There has been a degree of relief in some middle-class communities outside of Manhattan. In the Riverdale section of the Bronx, for example, two-bedroom apartments that ranged in monthly rent from $1,400 to $2,800 in 2001 currently range from $1,200 to $2,500, according to one local broker -- a slippage of 14 percent on the low end and 11 percent on the high end. (The low end includes apartments in multifamily private homes or in buildings with few or no amenities; the upper end includes apartments in luxury buildings with amenities like a concierge, a pool and a health club.)
For less affluent neighborhoods, Professor Schill offered an on-the-one-hand . . . on-the-other assessment of the effects of the softening rental market.
According to the 2000 census, 24 percent of all renters in the city pay more than half their income for rent. "And 9 out of 10 of those people are low income," the professor said. "These people are likely to have been disproportionately negatively affected by the recession and rising unemployment. So these households can use a lower rent."
At the same time, in poor neighborhoods -- where many people pay market-rate rents in small buildings with, perhaps, fewer than a dozen apartments, or for a walk-up above a storefront -- "many landlords are just getting by," Professor Schill said.
"We need to watch for problems if landlords in these neighborhoods earn significantly lower rents," he said, especially with the effect of the 18.5 percent property-tax increase approved in the city last week.
What happens in the city ripples into the region -- particularly right across the Hudson where waterfront developers say they continue to draw between 25 and 45 percent of their tenants from people looking for an affordable alternative to Manhattan. Brokers say asking rents there, too, are down 5 to 15 percent in the last year. In Westchester, where one stereotypical renter is the corporate transferee requiring a large home, the market has been affected by national corporate downsizing, local brokers say. And on Long Island, rents have remained flat, according to one brokerage firm with offices in 37 communities.
Michael Sloan, who recently returned from a five-year career stint in Atlanta, has had poignant before-and-after flashes of the Manhattan rental experience.
For 12 years, before moving to Georgia as vice president for finance for a public relations firm, Mr. Sloan, now 37, lived on East 88th Street, renting a one-bedroom in a brownstone for $1,400 a month. "Yes, it did seem like a lot at the time," he said.
Later, Mr. Sloan faced the market madness of the mid-90's: co-op board rejections despite his comfortable salary. "What was hardest," he said, "was brokers calling you at work and saying, 'Be there in 15 minutes or someone else will take it.' "
In Atlanta, Mr. Sloan rented a one-bedroom in a new building -- "loaded with amenities: a pool, parking, a gym," he said -- for $1,100. So, upon returning to Manhattan and starting his Midtown search in September, he at first found the prices "pretty shocking."
Mr. Sloan shifted his sights westward, to Hell's Kitchen, where sparkling new residential towers cast shadows over low-lying 19th-century tenements. And last week, after attuning his expectations, he signed a lease for a one-bedroom apartment in the Victory -- a sleek, bay-windowed, 45-story building at 10th Avenue and 41st Street -- for $2,300 a month. "It reminded me of the place I left in Atlanta; brand new, so many amenities," he said. 
Although Hell's Kitchen -- more genteelly called Clinton -- was "new territory," Mr. Sloan feels he "got lucky with the rent."
"They offered incentives -- two months free," he said, "and I prorated it and got the rent down to what I wanted. I would say it ended up easier than I expected."
Nancy Packes, the longtime president of the Feathered Nest brokerage company, has long kept comprehensive statistics for lease signings below 96th Street. In 1987, according to her most recent report, Manhattan's average monthly rent for apartments handled by brokers was $1,795. Between 1990 and 1993, during the city's last economic doldrums, rents dropped and hovered around $1,650. They then began a remarkable ascension so that by midyear 2000 the average stood at $3,096 -- an 88 percent rise from those early-90's lows.
There was slight slippage, to $3,003, by midyear 2001. But then, with the city shaken by the terrorist attacks and economic worries, the average dropped to $2,624 by June 30 of this year -- a 15 percent decrease from the all-time high. And since then, based on a 1,000-transaction sample of leases signed between June 30 and Nov. 1, the average has dropped even further, to $2,350.
The Feathered Nest report also compared rents by apartment size. At midyear 2000 -- that all-time high for all categories -- the average for studios in full-service buildings was $2,217; by midyear 2002, it was $1,910, and currently it is $1,800. For one-bedrooms at midyear 2000, the average was $3,012; by midyear 2002 it was $2,620, and currently it is $2,300. In the two-bedroom category, at midyear 2000, it was $4,804; by midyear 2002 it was $3,950, and now it is $3,400.
Ms. Packes said that the lower prices have, in some cases, also benefited existing tenants, who have been able to bargain at lease-renewal time. Landlords, she said, "try to reach an accommodation with the existing tenant somewhere between the rent that the tenant is already paying and what the landlord would get if that tenant left."
Ms. Packes pointed to what she considers a healthy sign for the Manhattan market -- that many of the leases in newly constructed buildings over the last 18 months were signed by people moving in from the tristate area. Even during the economic downturn, she said, "people didn't say, 'I don't want to live there under any circumstances,' as some folks had predicted after 9/11."
"It's totally healthy that Manhattan continued to attract people as soon as prices dropped," Ms. Packes said.
THE price drop south of 96th Street has certainly affected prices to the north. 
Gus Perry, president of Stein-Perry Real Estate in Washington Heights, said: "Since so many jobs were lost and there was so much rental property available downtown when they tried to refill the area by the Trade Center -- they were offering subsidies down there -- fewer people came up this way. So, right now, there are a lot of good deals to be had."
Scanning his listings, Mr. Perry said that a renovated one-bedroom renting last year for $1,300 to $1,600 would now get $1,200 to $1,300. "For example, there's a one-bedroom in an Art Deco building on 190th and Fort Washington Avenue that's on the market for $1,200," he said. "A comparable apartment last year would have gone for about $1,400."
R. Kenyatta Punter, president of the Harlem real estate firm that bears his name, said, "A three-bedroom at 301-A West 136th Street, a two-year rental in a condo, was $2,600 in September 2001; currently, we have a comparable apartment at 2226 Seventh Avenue, where a lease was signed in October for $2,200." 
"They've all come down, on average, by 15 to 20 percent," Mr. Punter said.
Rents have come down in parts of Brooklyn, too.
Glenn McQuaid, a design director at a special effects company, has decided to move just a few blocks in his neighborhood, Park Slope, in order to take advantage of lower rents (he also had some difficulty with repairs at his old building).
Mr. McQuaid, 30, is moving from one brownstone apartment on Berkeley Place to another on Second Street -- closer to Prospect Park. "I use the park an awful lot, for cycling," he said, "two or three miles a day, a couple of loops."
Mr. McQuaid was paying $1,700 a month for a one-bedroom in his old building; his new rent for a large studio is $1,400. "I was delighted to find a place that was actually cheaper," he said. "I started looking at a very good time, apparently."
Soon after making an appointment with a broker at the William B. May Company, Mr. McQuaid said, "They showed me a studio and two one-bedrooms, all in the space of half an hour; and as soon as I saw the studio, I took it."
Asked what he might do with his rental savings, he said, "Buy a new bike."
Christopher Thomas, the senior vice president for Brooklyn at the William B. May Company, said the current market is "pretty much a straightforward supply and demand situation where the creation of a lot of new market-rate rentals in Manhattan has impacted on the rental markets in Brooklyn Heights and Park Slope."
Citing some examples, Mr. Thomas said that in Brooklyn Heights one-bedrooms that rented for an average of $2,200 in January 2001 now rent for about $1,900. In January 2001, an average two-bedroom in Brooklyn Heights would have gone for $2,800, he said, but is now about $2,400.
In Park Slope, in January 2001, he said, an average one-bedroom would have been $1,800. Currently, it is about $1,600. For two-bedrooms in Park Slope, the average was $2,500 in January 2001, and currently $2,300.
A different picture is painted by Gerard Longo, president of Madison Estates and Properties Realty and chairman of the multiple listing service that covers Brooklyn's South Shore. "The numbers around here are pretty much the way they've been for the last year or two," Mr. Longo said.
In Bergen Beach and Mill Basin, "where there are quite a few two-family homes -- a private home with a one- or two-bedroom rental," he said, a one-bedroom would currently rent for $900 to $1,100 a month, and a two-bedroom for $1,200 to $1,500. In Sheepshead Bay, where apartment buildings are more the norm, "you're looking at one-bedrooms starting at $1,000 and two-bedrooms in the area of $1,400."
After checking with fellow brokers in other Brooklyn communities, Mr. Longo said, "Where we do see some softening is in areas like Greenpoint, Williamsburg and Bay Ridge." In Williamsburg, for example, a two-bedroom on the north side that was renting for about $2,600 a year ago, "now may be around $2,300 or $2,400," he said. 
Of what he sees as a modest correction in the rental market, Mr. Longo said, "It's not a bad thing."
In Queens, Barbara Frechter, president of Glenjay Realty in Forest Hills and former president of the Long Island Board of Realtors, said rents have "softened a little," in part because "there's been a lot of stuff in Manhattan about people renegotiating their leases for less money, so landlords here don't want to have vacancies."
A studio in a co-op on Queens Boulevard in Forest Hills is currently renting for $950, Ms. Frechter said, and a one-bedroom on Austin Street for $1,100. "Then there's a three-bedroom, two-bath with a terrace in a three-family house by Grand Central Parkway that's asking $1,800," she continued. "I think those prices would have been about the same a year ago."
But some landlords in the area "have lowered their free-market rents by around 10 percent," Ms. Frechter added, citing, for example, "some studios that are down from $1,100 to $950."
After phone calls to colleagues in other parts of Queens, Ms. Frechter cited these examples of recent leases: In Jamaica, a studio on 143rd Street rented for $750, and a one-bedroom on 144th Street went for $950. On Francis Lewis Boulevard in Cambria Heights, a two-bedroom rented for $1,200. 
Rents have increased, however, for sublets in some garden apartment co-ops in Queens. Ruth Farrago, president of the board of Hyde Park Gardens in Kew Gardens Hills, said that "for many years we suffered in terms of subletting; people were not able to get rents that covered their mortgage and maintenance."
"That's shifted," she said.
In her development of 746 units on 23 acres, Ms. Farrago said, "We're getting anywhere from $900 to $1,100 for a one-bedroom; a year ago, it probably would have been about $800 to $1,000."
Whatever the recent fluctuations, the newlyweds Amy and David Frost -- she from Colorado, he from Florida -- were hit by "sticker shock" when they rented a one-bedroom apartment in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
"We got married in June," said Ms. Frost, 30, a sales representative who was relocated from Colorado Springs by a construction equipment manufacturer. "David came from Bonita Springs, Fla.; he moved here for me, left his sunshine for me."
Ms. Frost, 30, was used to renting a 500-square-foot, one-bedroom apartment in Colorado for $495 a month, "including utilities." Mr. Frost, 31, a project manager for a school door construction and installation company, had been renting a two-bedroom in Florida for $725. 
They are now paying $1,250 a month for a one-bedroom sublet in a co-op on Independence Avenue in Riverdale. "It was astronomical," Ms. Frost said.
Mr. Frost said, "It seemed high, but I found out that it's actually a good deal for this area." 
"That's the bizarre thing," she said.
And that's not the only jarring realization about the New York area. "The money you pay for tolls!" Ms. Frost said. "David works in Carteret, N.J., and his tolls come to $250 a month. I could have gotten a nice little apartment in Colorado for that much."
The Frosts found their apartment through Goldy Real Estate in Riverdale, whose president, Susan Goldy, said there have been 10 to 15 percent rent reductions in the community since last year. 
In 2001, Ms. Goldy said, studio rents ranged from $795 to $1,100, "while in 2002, they are running $725 to $1,050." One-bedrooms in 2001 were $895 to $1,700, she continued, "in 2002, $800 to $1,490." And two-bedrooms that were $1,400 to $2,800 in 2001 "are now $1,200 to $2,500."
Softening demand has led to recent rent reductions, Ms. Goldy said, "because people are electing to stay put, taking a wait-and-see attitude or buying a home because of the low interest rates."
In other sections of the Bronx, however, insisted Haniff Baksh, president of ERA Besmatch Real Estate, "the rental market is still very tight."
Mr. Baksh pointed to a three-bedroom apartment in a three-family home in the Wakefield section that rented for $1,348 on Nov. 4, and to a one-bedroom in Parkchester that rented for $900 on Nov. 1. "They would have been pretty much the same amount a year ago," he said.
Citing a four-bedroom on the Grand Concourse that rented for $1,448 in October, Mr. Baksh said it may have been "just slightly lower" a year ago.
"There aren't that many apartments available in the Bronx," he said. "Yes, there is building going on, but it's all private houses, two-families, three-families; no big buildings. Remember, the Bronx is its own world."
Perhaps. But there is no doubt that many communities in the suburban ring are bending to rental currents flowing through much of the city. Along the New Jersey waterfront, rents have slipped by up to 15 percent. According to the ACI Group, a property management firm that compiles waterfront statistics, a typical two-bedroom that used to rent for $2,600 now goes for $2,200.
Officials at the Lefrak Organization, which owns 10 residential towers in Jersey City, said they had reduced rents by 5 to 15 percent. "The market is not dead," said Jamie LeFrak, the executive vice president. "It has returned to normal."
According to Joseph Forgione of Sterling Properties, developers in northern and central New Jersey, a one-bedroom that used to rent for $1,600 now goes for $1,500.
IN Westchester, Ralph Ragette, president of Prudential Ragette in Bronxville, searched the county's multiple listing service Web site and said he had not seen so many rental listings in 20 years. Particularly at the high end, where large homes rent for $3,000 to $7,000 a month, Mr. Ragette said, "There are fewer corporate transferees looking for them."
Similar circumstances are affecting the posh environs of Connecticut. "The relocation business is way down," said Allen Schaps, director of Raveis Real Estate in Stamford. As are rents, he said, "by 15 to 20 percent." In Westport, said Darcy Sledge of Prudential Connecticut, the average rent for single-family homes, town houses and condominiums was $5,188 between June and mid-November 2001; for the same period this year, the average is $4,301.
More down to earth, Amy Whitelaw, an agent at Russell Pruner & Associates in Greenwich, said a studio in a multifamily building in her community would rent for about $900, a one-bedroom for about $1,200.
On Long Island, however, realtors said rents have remained flat. "There has been no less demand nor a decline," said Dorothy Herman, president of Prudential Long Island Realty, which has 37 offices around the island. Rents in Williston Park and Mineola, she said, range from $1,050 for a one-bedroom to $1,800 for a two- or three-bedroom.
Drs. Nada Abou-Fayssal and Nicholas Papamitsakis, husband and wife and both neurologists, hope to live the link between New York City and its surrounding precincts.
She lives in a $1,400-a-month one-bedroom on the Upper East Side and works at a hospital in Queens. He is returning from a residency at a hospital in Detroit for a new job at a hospital in Edison, N.J.
To split the commuting distance -- and lower their combined previous rents -- they signed a lease last week for a two-bedroom at the Vanguard, in Hoboken, for $2,700.
Dr. Abou-Fayssal said they chose the waterfront because of the view. "Though I know it's an illusion," she said, "I wanted to feel I am still part of New York."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Glenn McQuaid is leaving a one-bedroom in Park Slope for a large studio and will pay $300 a month less. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 6); Michael Sloan will pay $2,300 for a one-bedroom in Hell's Kitchen. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Amy and David Frost pay $1,250 a month to sublet a one-bedroom co-op apartment in Riverdale. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Graph: "In Manhattan, the Drop Continues"Average rents for apartments below 96th Street, in both new buildings and re-rentals, handled by Halstead Feathered Nest agency. Graph tracks rents for apartments since 1987. (Source: Halstead Feathered Nest)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (76%); CITIES (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (52%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LANDLORDS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CITI HABITATS 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; HEIBERGER, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



21 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2599 words

HEADLINE: School Maze 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE BERGER 

 BODY:
MANY New York parents are all too familiar with the frenzy involved in getting a child into one of the city's highly competitive preschools. It's no wonder people are still buzzing about Jack Grubman's twins and the 92nd Street Y nursery school. Braving the middle school gantlet is no picnic, either. But for true horror stories, it's hard to beat those told by parents trying to enroll their offspring in the public high school system.
 As that vast sorting machine has become increasingly complex, negotiating it has become arduous and anxiety-provoking. This year, thanks to a confluence of demographics and politics, the situation has reached fever pitch. 
 The city's population of 13-year-olds, most of whom are in public school, has been steadily climbing in recent years to a peak of about 108,000, according to the 2000 census. With a new mayor and his revamped school bureaucracy, combined with dozens of new high school programs, a hard-to-navigate system has become even more treacherous. 
For baffled, nail-biting parents of eighth graders, who are right now completing applications and awaiting test results, and for those soon to join their ranks, here is a primer on an uncommonly stressful process.

1. Is the situation as awful as everyone says?
Numbers tell the story. This year, some 73,000 eighth graders are enrolled in the public system and are expected to apply to public high school. The 2002-2003 Directory of the New York City Public High Schools, the definitive guide published by the city's Department of Education, is 488 pages long and lists 236 schools in the five boroughs.
Though every child is guaranteed a seat in public school, the problem is that too many of those desks are in failing neighborhood schools.
"Until you have a lot of good schools to choose from, it's kind of like rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic," said Janet Price, author of a 1985 report on the high school system for Advocates for Children, a New York nonprofit group.
Some of the fiercest competition involves the specialized high schools, a category that includes the three well-known elite schools (Stuyvesant, Bronx Science and Brooklyn Technical) and three additional schools that opened this year at Lehman, York and City College. 
The odds of getting into these programs are bluntly spelled out in the high school directory. For Stuvesant, 19,465 applied for 725 spaces. At the Fiorello H. La Guardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts, which requires an audition, the ratio of applicants who were admitted to the dance program last year was 1 in 44. 
Competition is also fierce at other desirable schools. Even at the two-year-old Bard High School Early College in Lower Manhattan, intended to give students a jump on college, there were 1,731 applications for 125 spots, despite its lack of a track record.

2. What's the most frustrating part of the application process?
Perhaps most galling to parents is the part of the system's centralized application in which students must rank their choices of school in order of preference. The best programs have become so oversubscribed that they consider only students who list them as their first choice. Students who are rejected by their first-choice school may well be bumped down to their last choice. Or worse. 
"Every year, several thousand kids get turned down in all their choices," said Clara Hemphill, the author of several books on city schools and a Web site manager for Advocates for Children. 
There's more. The dizzying round of school tours, the daunting number of choices and their differing admissions criteria, combined with the pressure to figure out the best strategy for ranking schools, can be overwhelming.
Even veterans of the system are hard pressed to remember exactly which schools assess students on the basis of merit (the so-called screened selection method) and which cull their freshman class from a computerized ranking of seventh-grade reading scores (the so-called Educational Option method).
Students who hedge their bets by applying outside the public system must travel down an additional exhausting pathway involving the Independent Schools Entrance Examination (for most of the city's private schools), the Secondary School Admission Test (for boarding schools) and the Cooperative Admissions Examination for the city's Roman Catholic schools. 
Nor does the public system offer much help. Angela Reformato, who represents guidance counselors citywide for the United Federation of Teachers, said there is approximately one guidance counselor for every 500 eighth graders.

3. How did everything become so incredibly complicated?
The system is complex because of the system's size (with more than 1.1 million students, the nation's largest), the city's demanding population and attempted reforms going back more than a century. 
"With each new wave of educational innovation," said Dr. Stephan Brumberg, a historian of education at Brooklyn College, "you lay down another layer of schools, each of which has its own rationale that may or may not interact with prior or future layers."
Even when neighborhood high schools were first established in the early 20th century, they offered specialties that reflected the job opportunities of the day. Commercial schools cropped up as New York became the world's mercantile center, and the National Association of Manufacturers pushed for vocational programs to turn out skilled workers. 
The high school network grew during the Depression to accommodate unemployed New Yorkers and European refugees. It was in this period that the State Legislature approved separate entrance requirements for the first three elite schools.
With the city's wealthiest families typically seeking refuge in private schools, the public system was increasingly torn between the demands of the middle class and the needs of the poor. Especially since World War II, that conflict has inspired a growing group of choices that is both the system's blessing and its curse. As more resources were invested in competitive schools, neighborhood schools increasingly became the schools of last resort.

4. But now the system seems more complex than ever. How did that happen?
Paradoxically, probably for all the right reasons.
The public high school system today is actually divided into several kinds of schools and programs, from the specialized schools to alternative, local, charter and Educational Option programs. At the same time, there are multiple and often complex selection methods. 
At the elite schools, for example, most students are accepted by getting high grades on a stiff competitive test, but students who just miss the cutoff on the entrance exam and can prove they are socially or economically disadvantaged can retake another test after a special summer course. Bard, meanwhile, has spun off its own entrance exam and interview process.
The most controversial subset are the Educational Option programs, which began in the 1970's, when school desegregation was a major public issue. The aim was to create themed schools -- like Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn, whose specialty is communications -- to which students throughout the city could apply.
These programs were quickly recognized as a way to retain middle-class students at a time when many New Yorkers were fleeing the city. They grew in popularity, but so did confusion and paperwork. So, in the 1980's, a centralized application form was developed with a place to list specific choices. The aim was to even the playing field and, despite appearances, to simplify things.
"Even with its confusion, it still is simpler than having kids send off multiple forms," said Dr. Frank L. Smith, a former director of the city's high schools, who helped develop the application system. "There wasn't even a standard form. It was close to anarchy."
It was also clear that middle-class children with connections had access to Educational Option programs that disadvantaged students hadn't even heard about. In 1985, after Advocates for Children released a scathing report titled "Public High Schools, Private Admissions," a uniform admissions process was developed, based on a bell curve of seventh-grade reading test scores. 
The idea was to give average and poor students as much of a shot at these programs as high achievers. 
The system works like this. Students who score in the top 2 percent of the seventh-grade reading test are guaranteed a place at their first-choice Educational Option program. This is the only part of the process based on pure merit. The rest of the slots are distributed -- by random computer selection and by school personnel -- in a way that guarantees acceptance not only for students who score at the top, but also for those who score in the middle and at the bottom of the test. Through the luck of the draw, struggling students can land places in hot schools, while good ones may be shut out.

5. Were there any other forces that shaped the current system?
Yes. Another goal of the Educational Option programs was to motivate children who had been anesthetized by traditional curriculums by drawing connections between the classroom and the real world.
The small schools movement also spawned new programs. In 1992, nearly 50 more programs of choice were set up, including the Museum School on West 17th Street and the Environmental Studies High School on West 56th Street. These so-called small schools, most of which fell under the Educational Option rubric, came in response to an unanticipated wave of immigration and subsequent overcrowding.

6. Do other big-city school systems have these sorts of problems?
They may not have the same degree of choice or competition, but they have their own difficulties.
In Los Angeles, which has the country's second-largest system with 749,000 children, most high school students (about 157,000) still attend 49 traditional schools, though not necessarily the one around the corner. Overcrowding is so bad that thousands of students are bused daily around the 700-square-mile metropolis.
"Who gets bused out is determined primarily by whether parents come two days earlier and sleep in line to enroll their students," said Cricket Bauer, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles system. Year-round schedules to relieve overcrowding wreak havoc with family routines.
For the city's 155 magnet schools, a computerized admissions system disregards merit or promise and awards points for factors like having an overcrowded home school. Even though the system seems cut and dried, critics say it favors families with education and initiative.
In Chicago, which has the nation's third-largest system with 437,000 children, the most prestigious public high schools have also drawn fire for racial inequity. Admission to the eight "college prep" schools is based on a citywide entrance exam, along with other test scores, grades and attendance records. But according to a December 2000 article in Catalyst, a Chicago magazine that covers local education, disparities crop up along what amounts to a north-south divide. Schools on the North Side have lavish new buildings and well-prepared staffs. Those on the South Side occupy old, retrofitted structures and have high turnover among teachers and administrators.
Last year, about one in three eighth graders who took the entrance exam for the college-prep schools were enrolled. Chicago also has 77 magnet programs with a variety of admissions criteria, some selective, some based on lotteries.

7. Does New York's system ever work? If so, whom does it benefit?
Students who do well on standardized tests or have special talents have access to some first-rate schools. The Educational Option schools, which draw from that huge middle range of seventh-grade reading test scores, also offer many interesting choices for average and even below-average students.
The city's multitude of young immigrants also benefit from a network of programs designed for recent arrivals, though space in those schools is also tight. International High School at La Guardia Community College in Queens, for example, accepts just one of every five applicants.
Most vulnerable are above-average students who miss the cutoff for the specialized schools but still do well on the seventh-grade reading tests. "They're the kids lost in the process," said Jill Chaifetz, executive director of Advocates for Children.
These students risk being crowded out from above and below. The highly regarded Murrow High School, which has 1,000 places for freshmen, last year got applications from 120 students who were guaranteed admission by scoring in the top 2 percent on the seventh-grade reading test. The school had to take every one of them. That left students who did well, but not in the top 2 percent, an even smaller slice of the pie for the remaining 880 seats.
The system works best for students who have strong adult advocates to help them navigate the maze. Ms. Chaifetz urges parents to visit www.insideschools.org, her organization's immense new Web site. Its editor, Ms. Hemphill, is also the author of the book "New York City's Best Public High Schools: A Parents' Guide" (Teachers College Press, 2001).

8. What if a child isn't accepted by any high school on his or her list?
"That's when you get on the phone to your guidance counselor and say, 'You've got to get my kid into a decent school,' " Ms. Hemphill said. "And that's the guidance counselor's job, and if they don't do it, you do it yourself."
Every student is guaranteed a place in the local high school, and it is sometimes possible to transfer out after a year. But seats in desirable programs only become scarcer after that freshman window. And many parents find the local option unacceptable.
"In our case, it was a school so bad it wasn't even an option," said Lewanne Jones of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, whose daughter, Bronwyn Fleming-Jones, spent her freshman year at a boarding school in Maine before enrolling in a New York-area private school.

9. Are parents trying to change the system?
For the most part, organized efforts have been directed toward creating more good schools rather than changing the application process. 
A good example is Eleanor Roosevelt High School, which opened this fall in temporary quarters and represents years of lobbying by Upper East Side parents to create another option for college-bound students. Critics say the high standards are designed to keep out poor children. Parents say they are simply trying to improve the quality of local education.

10. Are things likely to get better or worse?
On the supply side, things are improving, which should be good news. Recent additions include another school for fine and performing arts, the Frank Sinatra School of the Arts High School, which opened last year in Long Island City, Queens.
In addition to Eleanor Roosevelt and the three new specialized schools, this year's newcomers include some 15 small neighborhood-based schools and programs in various neighborhoods of the Bronx that were carved out of big, moribund schools. 
New Visions for Public Schools, a nonprofit group, is overseeing the creation of another 20 new high school programs with the help of $30 million in foundation money.
Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein has made high schools a priority of his "Children First" reform plans, some of which are expected to be announced next month. And the application process is under review, according to his spokesman, David K. Chai.
Perhaps only one thing is certain.
"Change is always a given," said Dr. Brumberg, the historian. "The schools are really a subchapter of Ecclesiastes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students waiting to take the test for Stuyvesant High School, above and below, and, left, a page from the city's 488-page directoryof public high schools. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1); (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times); (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); WRITERS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CENSUS (70%); MAYORS (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%); DANCE (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (58%)

PERSON: BERGER, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



22 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
A Rush to Safety on College Savings

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN 

 BODY:
STEVEN GRANT, a retired mechanical engineer from Skokie, Ill., regrets that he invested a total of $20,000 in college savings plans for two of his grandchildren in February 2000.
 By Sept. 30 this year, when he received his most recent quarterly statement from Fidelity Investments, the portfolio of his 10-year-old granddaughter had lost 22 percent of its value, while one for his 12-year-old grandson had lost 12 percent. 
 Mr. Grant is bitter about the losses. "I am not sure whether these Fidelity portfolios will recover," he said, "but these funds are supposed to do more than recover; they are supposed to give you a gain." 
Mr. Grant is among many Americans who, in the bear market of the last two years, have made money-losing stock investments through state-sponsored college savings programs. The programs, which became popular only in the last two years and are known as 529 plans after a section of the federal tax code, offer a tax-sheltered way to make a long-term investment for a child's education. But looking at the short term -- the year so far -- every plan with a substantial stock component has lost money, according to Morningstar Inc. 
Compared with the overall market, the stock funds have not done too badly. The average 529 stock fund declined 21.2 percent this year through October, according to Morningstar -- slightly better than the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which fell 21.8 percent, including reinvested dividends. 
There are also 529 plans that focus on bonds and "age-based plans," containing a mix of equity and bond investments that shifts as a child grows older. The average 529 bond fund gained 2.5 percent during the period, but the average age-based plan for a 5-year-old child lost 16 percent. Age-based funds are the most popular single option, according to several leading fund companies.
The ratio of stocks to bonds in age-based funds declines as a child ages; the funds for 5-year-olds are mainly stock funds, although the formula varies from plan to plan, and those with the heaviest concentration of fixed-income investments have had the best performance this year.
Investors may shop for these plans anywhere in the country, but some states provide additional tax advantages for in-state investors, so it is important to carefully research individual plans and their investment options. 
Many financial advisers say the 529 portfolios should not be judged on short-term performance. They are intended to provide returns over a decade or more. 
Nonetheless, many investors have responded to short-term stock losses by pouring their 529 money into fixed-income funds over the last six months, according to leading managers of 529 plans across the country. In that period, about 40 percent of new investor assets flowing into college savings plans managed by TIAA-CREF in 13 states, including New York, California, Connecticut and Michigan, wound up in guaranteed investment options. This portfolio assures investors of a base annual return of 3 percent, with the possibility of more depending on prevailing interest rates. 
THE guaranteed investment option, rarely chosen by investors as recently as a year ago, has become almost as popular as age-based portfolios in the last six months, said Timothy E. Lane, TIAA-CREF's vice president for tuition financing.
Similarly, Richard A. Davies, an executive at Alliance Capital who oversees the nationwide marketing campaign for the Rhode Island-based plan from his firm, said that about a third of all new investor dollars were now going into its insured fixed-income portfolio, currently yielding about 4.45 percent a year.
Two years ago, he said, investors were directing about 40 percent of their college savings funds into all-stock portfolios. That share has plunged to about 12 percent.
These trends trouble some financial planners. "These guaranteed plans are very exciting for someone concerned about the safety of their savings," said Steven Klane, a partner at Sands & Klane, an accounting and financial planning firm based in Minneapolis. "But investors should be seeking to exceed the rate of inflation and grow their college funds."
Despite the gains of fixed-income funds, fund managers report that age-based portfolios remain popular, and most advisers recommend them. A portfolio for an infant or preschool child would generally consist almost entirely of a mixture of equity mutual funds, the companies that manage them say. Fidelity Investments bases its 529 age-based portfolio on mutual funds like its Blue Chip Growth, Equity-Income and Disciplined funds. As a child grows older, the share of fixed-income investments in the portfolio grows.
The best-performing age-based portfolios this year through October were all managed by TIAA-CREF for various state plans, including those of Tennessee, Connecticut and Missouri, according to Morningstar, with losses of between about 8 and 11 percent this year through October. The funds achieved these returns because of heavier weightings in investment-grade bonds than other age-based funds, said Tricia Rothschild, a Morningstar product manager who oversees the firm's analysis of college plans. By contrast, the laggards in this category tended to have a higher allocation of stock investments, she said. That is why Strong Capital's aggressive equity portfolio, managed for Nevada, lost 22.3 percent through October, she said. 
Over the long term, many financial advisers say, funds weighted more toward stock portfolios may well outperform those with more bonds. Stocks, after all, have generally outperformed fixed-income investments over the decades. 
Mr. Grant, who conceded that he knew of the inherent risk of stocks before he made his investment, said that his grandchildren's college savings portfolios have recovered some of their losses over the last two months. But he said he was restricting additional investments for his grandchildren to inflation-protected Treasury bonds. 
COLLEGE plan portfolio managers and certified financial planners say most investors should have exposure to stocks in their college investing if they want the money to keep pace with education expenses, which are expected to grow faster than the cost of living.
Ren W. Cheng, a Fidelity portfolio manager who oversees investment in his firm's college plan programs, said he made that point recently to a customer whose $3,000 investment in an age-based account for a 2-year-old had lost a quarter of its value in the last year and a half.
Mr. Cheng said he asked the investor, "Should you be worrying about the short-term market behavior,' " or about the hundreds of thousands of dollars needed by the time the child was ready for college?
Mr. Davies of Alliance said that while his firm does not make individual investing recommendations, "We do believe that an age-based portfolio makes the most sense for most people." The portfolios are adjusted automatically over time, he said. "You can put the money away for 15 years and not worry about it. If you have an all-equity account, you will have decisions to make down the road."
Mr. Klane agreed that the age-based approach probably makes the most sense for the plans' participants. "Most of my clients don't have the discipline to do this all by themselves," he said. 
Like other financial advisers, he thinks investors should make regular, fixed contributions into age-based accounts, a technique called dollar-cost averaging. That lets them buy more shares of underlying stocks when prices are low, and less when prices are high.
While any paper investment loss hurts, the pain of a falling college savings plan can be particularly acute. That is because the time to regain lost ground can be short.
"College is a fixed target in time," said Judy C. Miller, the principal of College Solutions, a college preparatory consulting firm in Alameda, Calif. "You can't postpone college the way you can retirement."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Grant is angry over losses in savings plans for his grandchildren. (Peter Thompson for The New York Times) Chart: "Dwindling Funds for Tuition"People who invested in stocks through state-sponsored college savings plans lost money this year, but most did better than the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Following are the best- and worst-performing age-based funds for 5-year-olds. These funds contain mainly stocks, but will shift toward bonds as a child grows older. BEST PERFORMERS MANAGER: TIAA-CREFSTATE FUND: Tennessee Best College Savings Plan2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: - 8.0% MANAGER: TIAA-CREFSTATE FUND: Connecticut Higher Education Trust2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: - 9.9 MANAGER: TIAA-CREFSTATE FUND: Missouri Saving for Tuition2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -10.0 MANAGER: TIAA-CREFSTATE FUND: Minnesota College Savings Plan2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -10.9 MANAGER: TIAA-CREFSTATE FUND: Michigan Education Savings Program2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -11.2 WORST PERFORMERS MANAGER: FidelitySTATE FUND: Delaware College Invest. Plan 20152002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -19.5 MANAGER: Strong CapitalSTATE FUND: Wisconsin Tomorrow Scholar 10+ to Coll.2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -19.7 MANAGER: Strong CapitalSTATE FUND: Wisconsin EdVest Age-Based 10+ to Coll.2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -20.7 MANAGER: Waddell & ReedSTATE FUND: Arizona InvestEd 0-8 Years Old2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -21.7 MANAGER: Strong CapitalSTATE FUND: Nevada 10+ to College Aggressive2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -22.3 Standard & Poors 500-stock index2002 RETURN THROUGH OCT. 31: -21.8 (Source: Morningstar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); BONDS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); TAX LAW (67%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; MUTUAL FUNDS; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); FMR CORP (73%)

ORGANIZATION: MORNINGSTAR INC 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (73%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (73%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (73%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (73%)

PERSON: KIMELMAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



23 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
A 16-Year Slump? If So, Blame It on the Boomers

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
A NEW study of American demographic patterns and the stock market predicts that while the market may rally periodically, its overall direction will be downward until around 2018. 
 This bearish forecast is based on a model devised by three finance professors -- John Geanakoplos of Yale, Michael J. P. Magill of the University of Southern California and Martine Quinzii of the University of California at Davis. In a study titled "Demography and the Long-Run Predictability of the Stock Market" (http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=329840), they report that their model has done a good job of explaining the bull and bear markets of the last century. But its accuracy as a forecasting tool, of course, is untested. 
 The professors' approach is complex, but it depends on a simple indicator: the ratio of the number of middle-aged people to the number of young adults in the population. When this ratio rises, the overall market's price-to-earnings ratio will rise, too, the professors predict. When the age ratio declines, as it is likely to do until about 2018, the market's P/E will also decline. 
Demographics are the most important factor in determining long-term market trends, according to the professors, who believe that individual investment behavior largely depends on age-related patterns. Younger adults, those from 20 to 39, are generally consumers. Middle-aged people, 40 to 59, tend to invest in stocks. Retirees are likely to sell more stocks than they buy. 
Market performance is strongly affected by the relative numbers of people in each of these three life stages, the professors say. When more people are entering middle age than retiring, for example, the market tends to rise because more people will be buying than selling. If the next generation of investors is smaller, the trend will reverse when the middle-aged investors retire. 
The major influence of the next two decades will be the aging of the baby boomers, the approximately 79 million people born in the United States from 1945 to 1965. This generation has about 27 million more people than the one that preceded it, and about 10 million more than the one that followed.
The big difference in the sizes of these generations has already led to wide swings in the stock market, the study found. As the first baby boomers approached middle age in 1985 and began investing heavily, their buying more than offset the selling of the older generation then entering retirement. Stocks entered a multiyear bull market.
That trend is reversing, according to the model, which predicts that the market has entered a long decline caused by baby boomers selling stocks as they approach retirement. The sales will be only partially offset by the purchases of the smaller group entering middle age.
The model predicts that this long-term trend will not turn positive again until after 2018, when retirees' stock sales will be more than offset by the purchases of younger investors. This trend will strengthen as the larger baby boom "echo" generation, born between 1985 and 2005, enters middle age. 
Since the professors began circulating their research as a working paper in August, critics have been skeptical that the model will apply to other periods or countries as it has to American history. Professor Magill is using it to study Japan, and so far it appears to hold up well. The model suggests that much of the long-running bear market there can be explained by the high ratio of retirees to middle-aged people.
To derive from the model a long-term forecast for the American market, it is necessary to estimate how fast corporate earnings will grow. Assuming that they grow at the same rate as they have over the last two decades, the model predicts that the market, after inflation, will lose more than half its value through 2018.
Still, the model holds out hope for truly long-term investors. After all, if the professors are right, a bull market lasting more than a decade will begin after 2018.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Price-to-Age Ratio?"A new study shows that when the middle-aged share of the population has grown, so has the price-to-earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500. Graph shows the ratio of middle-aged to younger adults in the population, from 1950 to projections into 2030. Graph shows the S.& P. 500 price-to-earnings ratio, from 1950 to 2000. (Sources: Profs. John Geanakoplos; Michael J. P. Magill; Martine Quinzii)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); BONDS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; AGE (CHRONOLOGICAL) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



24 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: LOVE & MONEY; 
Taking Comfort in a New Frugality

BYLINE:  By ELLYN SPRAGINS; Ellyn Spragins is a freelance writer in Pennington, N.J. Her column about money's influence on relationships appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: loveandmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SNIP, snip, snip. The sounds of budget trimming are filling the air. With the economy weak and the stock market volatile, it's not exactly news that people are cutting back. What's different is that suddenly, it seems, everyone is talking about it.
 One friend, a Manhattan financial consultant in her 50's, says she hasn't watched her pennies like this since she was in her 20's. All she needs these days on her way home to her Park Avenue apartment, she said, are a Snickers bar, a gossip column and a seat on the subway. 
 Another friend, in South Orange, N.J., welcomed her guests' contributions of hors d'oeuvres for a recent housewarming party in her spacious new home rather than hiring a caterer.
My father, who is 79 and lives and works in Beaufort, S.C., recently sent a little ripple of concern through his five children when he decided to cancel several visits and vacations he had planned in the next nine months. 
If you are hard pressed to see these measures as hardships, you're getting the point. Cutting corners has gone mainstream. Even people who have not lost their jobs and are comfortably cushioned by other assets are hunkering down as if they are facing a long siege.
The most recent Anxious Index from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia -- measuring economists' forecasts about whether the economy will start shrinking -- says we may be headed for another recession, though it feels as if we haven't fully recovered from the last one.
If there were an Angst Index, however, it would be falling. The embarrassment over being unable to pay bills and the strife over what you and your spouse can afford seem to have peaked earlier in this crash-and-bash economy. Now there's a palpable feeling of relief in taking action, and in knowing that your friends and neighbors are doing the same.
Jack Adams, 62, an independent manufacturer's representative for electronic components to the automotive industry, has seen his business profits fall during the last year. So he and his wife, Melissa, who keeps the business's books, have curtailed entertainment and travel, and they plan to keep Christmas spending minimal. 
The Adamses haven't stopped spending, but they weigh expenditures as if they were truffles. Last summer, they installed an expensive patio in the backyard of their home in Farmington Hills, Mich., after protracted budgeting and discussion. "We are together on these decisions," Mr. Adams said. "The things that occurred on Sept. 11 and afterward in the economy have had the effect of bringing us closer together." 
Ed Stern, who owns the Stern Agency, an advertising agency in Columbia, Md., with 11 employees, says his 12-year-old son wants a computer in his room. But both his son and his 15-year-old daughter have learned that his company has been affected by smaller marketing budgets and that they need to shoulder some responsibility for getting things they want. Under the current plan, Mr. Stern will pay for half of the computer if his son pays for the other half. 
For some people, the urge to wrestle fears to the ground with a no-spending initiative is irresistible, even if unnecessary, said Bert Whitehead, the president of Cambridge Connection, a financial planning firm in Franklin, Mich. Many of his clients suffer from deprivation anxiety. "A couple may have plenty of money for their standard of living," he said, "but they've started to come in to see me, arguing about whether they can afford to buy a new car or take a vacation."
Of course, if income is collapsing, cost-cutting decisions extract pain. Todd Wright, 47, a real estate developer and consultant in Oakland, Calif., whose business was hit by the economic downturn, struggled for four months with a decision he made to sell his four-bedroom, 3,000-square-foot house. "It reached the point where my home and what it meant to me was not as important as the stress I was incurring to keep it," he said.
Now he feels relief that the financial burden is lifting; his business associates approve, too. "They viewed it as a smart choice, given the uncertainty of the environment," he said. He also felt a sense of validation when he learned that the buyer of his house, at just under $1 million, was downscaling from a $2 million home.
A FINANCIAL pinch can set off interesting sequences of events. At first you think money is power, because you believe you need what it can buy. But so long as you are not truly without means, being stretched can also cause money's hold to weaken -- because you are forced to be clearer about what you want. Stay stuck in the first stage and scarcity becomes the theme.
Benjamin Dattner, principal of Dattner Consulting in Manhattan, sees that happening in some businesses with which he works. Belt-tightening sets off backbiting, information hoarding, mistrust and blaming among employees.
But for other companies, fiscal stress becomes a crucible that results in a more resilient team with more resolve. What makes the difference? "When you can cast your struggle in a heroic way and understand what's meaningful about it, you can thrive," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Van Nutt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CHRISTMAS (69%); CATERING SERVICES (69%); LAYOFFS (66%); DISMISSALS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) PERSONAL FINANCES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: SPRAGINS, ELLYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



25 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Logistical Expertise Commands a Premium

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER 

 BODY:
FREIGHT forwarders, which arrange the shipping of commercial goods for business customers, have outperformed the stock market, and many portfolio managers believe that the largest of these logistics specialists will be strong investments for years to come.
 The companies generally do not own planes, railroad cars or trucks. Instead, they operate as brokers and high-technology intermediaries, arranging economical ways to move goods from Point A to Point B, often providing considerable help along the way. 
 The leading companies include Expeditors International of Washington, in Seattle; C. H. Robinson Worldwide of Eden Prairie, Minn.; and UTi Worldwide, the youngest of the three, in Rancho Dominguez, Calif. 
All have invested heavily in technology to connect them with carriers and to track the movement of goods, which can include aircraft engines, automobile chassis and computers.
John P. Wiehoff, the chief executive of C. H. Robinson, said, "Technology has changed transportation -- we'll spend $30 million this year for I.T." 
His company, typical of the industry, has expanded its information technology department in the last decade to 200 people from 10.
The companies have widely scattered offices and expertise in customs regulations. 
For the past dozen years, freight forwarders as a group have enjoyed annualized revenue growth of 21 percent, according to Gregory Burns, an analyst at J. P. Morgan in New York. By contrast, he said, revenues for the rail, truck and airlines industries have all increased at single-digit rates. 
The J. P. Morgan Logistics index of freight forwarders shows share prices 18 times as high as they were in 1990, compared with a threefold increase for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Mr. Burns said he believed that some of the companies could continue to outperform the market.
He says C. H. Robinson, now at $30.56, is expensive because it trades at 27 times his estimate of $1.13 a share in 2002 earnings. Yet he calls the company a bellwether. It focuses primarily on arranging for the trucking of goods within the United States.
"It knows more than just the phone numbers of 25,000 truck companies," said Mr. Burns, and it can often get customers the best rates in the shortest time.
At current prices, though, he favors the stock of Expeditors, which he said was likely to have strong revenue growth in its foreign business in 2003. 
Chuck McQuaid, co-manager of the Liberty Acorn fund in Chicago, which owns about 4 million shares of Expeditors and 575,000 shares of UTi Worldwide, said the leading companies in the field were likely to use their size and expertise to gain an increasing share of freight business in coming months.
"That's a big advantage to the big guys," he said. 
EXPEDITORS, he said, has built a strong network, with 167 offices around the world. It offers big incentives for branch managers, who at times have earned more than the company's chief executive. "This attracts the best branch managers, who increase sales and control costs," Mr. McQuaid said.
The stock, now at $33.45, is not cheap, but he said it deserved an above-average multiple. Based on earnings over the last 12 months, its price-to-earnings ratio is 35, compared with 30.4 for the S.& P. 500.
UTi's shares have climbed more than 20 percent, to $21.50, since the company started trading in November 2000 at about $17 a share. The company is still building its global network, Mr. McQuaid said, and he expects earnings per share to rise almost 10 percent over the next year, even factoring in the company's plan to issue additional stock, a step that would dilute existing shares. 
Joe Milano, portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore, also favors UTi, as well as C. H. Robinson. Speaking of UTi, he said, "If they can grow earnings 15 percent a year and prove more worthy of looking like Expeditors, this could be a pretty good stock over the next five years." 
On the other hand, Donald Broughton, an analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons, does not recommend any of the freight forwarders. As the economy picks up and volume increases for all transportation companies, he said, the share prices of the ones that "owned the assets and burned the fuel" will benefit. 
He contends that the logistic companies, which do not own such tangible, freight-moving assets, perform better in a slowdown.
Mr. Milano, however, says the freight forwarders are impervious to economic shifts. "These are service companies," he said. "Their earnings will grow, no matter what happens." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AIRLINES (79%); AIR FREIGHT (79%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); TRAINS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (52%) DELIVERY SERVICES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: C H ROBINSON WORLDWIDE INC (85%); EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON INC (57%); UTI WORLDWIDE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON INC (EXPD); C.H. ROBINSON WORLDWIDE 

TICKER: CHRW (NASDAQ) (85%); EXPD (NASDAQ) (57%); UTIW (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (85%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (85%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%) SIC4731 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN P WIEHOFF (55%) KELLEHER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



26 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Why Don't Mutual Funds Vote in the Sunlight?

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
ON SEPT. 20, the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed a rule that would require mutual fund managers to tell their investors how they voted on the questions companies put to shareholders in proxy statements. It asked for public comment and has received more than 2,800 letters in support of the proposal.
 Initially, some mutual fund companies said shareholders didn't care how their funds voted on corporate governance issues. The mail at the S.E.C. obliterates that argument. 
 Although only eight of the comment letters posted on the S.E.C.'s Web site oppose the rule -- the comment period ends on Friday -- its supporters are not confident that it will pass. They fear that big industry players -- like Fidelity Investments and Vanguard -- will water it down or kill it. The rule's progress is also being watched as a sign of how the S.E.C., in turmoil after the resignation of its chairman, Harvey L. Pitt, will approach corporate reform issues.
With $2.66 trillion under management at stock funds registered in the United States, fund managers could be a powerful force in protecting shareholders from pernicious managerial practices -- like excessive stock options grants and cozy boards. But it is all too clear that during the stock market bubble and its aftermath, they were asleep at that switch.
Fund companies that want to keep their votes under wraps argue that if they didn't like a management's actions, they would rather sell than try to change them. They add that publicizing their opposition to company proposals may alienate corporate executives. These executives may refuse to meet with a fund's analyst. Or they may go elsewhere for management of the company's retirement accounts, which generate lucrative fees for fund families. 
Neither argument puts the interest of investors first. And the idea that fund analysts cannot do their jobs without help from a company's executives is an insult to independent analysts who evaluate companies without help from corporate spinmeisters.
Some fund companies say that complying with the rule will be too costly. But the S.E.C. calculated the cost at $2,408 per investment company each year.
The Labor Department considers proxy voting a fiduciary duty of pension fund managers under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Why should duties to investors in private funds be any different?
The Investment Company Institute, which represents mutual fund interests in Washington, opposes disclosure. "I think it's a terrible idea," said Matthew Fink, the president. He said that disclosing votes would politicize the business of running a fund and that the S.E.C.'s cost estimate was too low.
Mutual funds have little experience with corporate governance in their own operations: they are not required to hold annual shareholder meetings and rarely get shareholder resolutions from investors. So it may not be surprising that some fund companies oppose putting their votes under scrutiny.
But thousands of shareholders feel otherwise. "As United States citizens, we vote for our representatives; if you elect a representative you have an ability to see how they vote," said Daniel J. Steininger, chairman of the Catholic Funds, a money management concern in Milwaukee with $26 million in assets. "For investors, the elected representatives are mutual funds who vote their shares. Yet they're not willing even to disclose to their constituency how they voted." 
One year ago tomorrow, Enron filed for bankruptcy protection. Since then, shareholders have learned how much they didn't know about many companies they owned. It's time for the fund industry to learn that their customers don't like being in the dark on proxy issues. If some funds don't want to disclose their votes, investors should put their money with those that do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (67%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



27 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: NOTICED; 
They Got Mail: Not-So-Fond Farewells

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE ROSMAN 

 BODY:
FOR three hours, Lincoln Ornston sat at his computer typing, deleting, rephrasing and searching for the words and tone befitting the occasion. After practicing law for nearly four years at O'Sullivan LLP, a Manhattan firm, Mr. Ornston understood the necessity of precise language. 
 When he had completed the document, which he had written as a mock press release, he e-mailed it to about 140 colleagues: 
 NEW YORK, NY (BUSINESS WIRE) May 31, 2002 -- O'Sullivan LLP (the "Firm") today announced the departure of Lincoln Ornston ("Shine" or "Uncle Junior"), the baldest, baddest associate to ever roam the halls of the vaunted NYC venture capital powerhouse." 
The memo continued for a page and a half in this vein, referring to two partners by name as "tormentors," gently digging at law firm culture and quoting a Dickens character: "the law is a ass sic , a idiot." 
Mr. Ornston's was not the kind of antiseptic correspondence normally circulated among buttoned-down lawyers. But this was not an ordinary occasion. He was leaving O'Sullivan (which has since merged with another firm, O'Melveny & Myers), and this was his goodbye. Among the memoranda and spread sheets that make up most corporate communications, the goodbye memo -- mass-mailed to colleagues on an employee's last day -- has become a kind of mini-genre of its own. 
Against the clear advice of career counselors to hold one's tongue and not send anything but contact information, many people are unable to resist waxing sentimental, self-indulgent or bitter, especially in the case of a layoff. This holiday season, typically a time of departures as executives collect year-end bonuses and move on, the sputtering economy seems to have created a thicker-than-usual stream of exit memos. They are forwarded from colleagues to friends to strangers, and sometimes to a reporter, in the way such things ricochet around the Internet.
"My mom always told me that hard work, loyalty and respect for others will bring me success," wrote Jusung Kwok, who was let go from Credit Suisse First Boston in late October. "That's why I came back to CSFB after b-school . . . and did all that other stuff. Apparently it doesn't always work that way." 
A colleague, Neicy Ramos, was more circumspect, ending a note she wrote on Oct. 29 with the words, "Though it is nice to be important, it's more important to be nice." (Ms. Ramos did not respond to a request for comment, and Mr. Kwok declined to comment.) 
"With the advent of e-mail, people started writing rudimentary goodbyes to the entire organization, and after a while it became almost a contest, a game to see who could be the most creative," said Ilan Nissan, 39, an O'Melveny partner who has practiced law for 14 years. "I suppose some see it as their last chance to take center stage" among soon-to-be-former colleagues, he said.
Aaron Kribs, who was let go at Excite@Home last year, was direct and specific in his exit e-mail, perhaps more specific than his former employers would have liked, considering he sent it to dozens of friends in numerous industries. "After having survived several rounds of layoffs, today was the day that my division closed its doors and gave us all our walking papers," he wrote. 
When people leave a company, said Julia Gilbert, a recruiting consultant with the Oxbridge Group, "it's a chance for you to either act your most immature -- to take advantage of this tense moment -- or it is an opportunity to act graciously and gracefully. If you exit in a pleasant way, your former colleagues and supervisors may want to help you in the future." 
Peter Vipulis, from Credit Suisse, was not subtle in describing the kind of help he was looking for, in his e-mail: "I made 80K my first year as a temp and life was good. Life is still good, but I could still use the 80K." 
B. Joseph White, a professor of business administration at the University of Michigan and the former dean of its business school, said that when employees leave their jobs, "aberrant behavior" can result. He recommended a short, gracious e-mail, even when leaving on good terms. Of attempts like Mr. Ornston's to break the mold, he remarked, "Don't try to be funny when you're not." 
But the desire to have the last word often trumps career consequences, perhaps because many people view the goodbye memo as a chance to show the world who they really are.
"The goodbye e-mail is the one e-mail that actually comes from that individual banker," said an investment banker who did not want her name used because she is negotiating her severance package. "Everything else is the voice of the firm. The goodbye e-mail is personal, and it's coming at a very emotional moment. Whether or not you're quitting or getting laid off, you're leaving your job. It's a big deal."
Bankers and lawyers at a range of firms have been known to maintain files of Hall of Fame departure memos. John Stephenson, a partner at Alston & Bird in Atlanta, has been collecting departure memos for 18 years. He has between 100 and 200 in a file called "Fallen Soldiers."
The best goodbyes are "provocative and evocative," Mr. Stephenson said. "You have an insider's knowledge, and you have an opportunity to say something that will resonate with the people who read it."
His all-time favorite came just last month from Chuck Young, an associate of his company, who delivered a five-page memo, complete with footnotes, contemplating the "Fallen Soldiers" file and the genre itself. 
"Some could be viewed as so banal and rote that they were self-parodies of the form," he wrote, "but that's probably a postmodern meta-criticism that gives the authors too much credit, or not enough." 
Another collector of exit memos, a lawyer, said, "Sometimes you keep them because they are really embarrassing or funny."
"Or because it's an important moment in the history of the firm," continued the lawyer, who spoke on condition of anonymity because his firm discourages interaction with the press. "I think that's especially true now, with all the layoffs. There's a sense that this is the documentation that represents a very emotional point in the company's history." 
Parsing the notes for innuendo can become an office sport, said Mr. Kribs, who was let go from two other dot-com companies before his unit at Excite@Home was dissolved. "You look for the tone," he explained. "Are they happy? Do they feel like they've been wronged?" 
When Naim Bulbulia, 29, a lawyer, left Dewey Ballantine three years ago, he spent two weeks tweaking his departure memo, a pagelong, sentimental epistle concluding with, "I hope I have made each of your lives a little brighter . . . just as you have done for me."
Not content to give praise where he felt it was not due, Mr. Bulbulia snuck in, among the platitudes, a barb of omission. In a paragraph in which he thanked, by name, every member of a certain department, he left one name out. In fact, even though he had not worked with two or three of the lawyers, he still mentioned them "to glaringly point out" to the excluded partner that she was not included, he said. He later heard he had succeeded in upsetting her. 
The departure memo has become enough of an institution at certain companies that after being pink-slipped, composing the memo -- rather than impending joblessness -- can rank as the most pressing concern. After the din of layoff rumors rose to a crescendo at one particular bank, a young employee spent two days drafting a departure memo even without knowing if his name was on the hit list.
As it turns out, it was. And the news went from bad to worse. After being terminated, the banker was told he was barred from touching his computer -- the very computer where his memo was stored. "I had to beg my office manager to let me send it," the banker said. The manager agreed, and more than 100 people received the message. 
"It's been a real roller coaster ride," it began, "but it's time to move on and try something new. How did I know it was time? Simple, two armed security guards came to my office and told me to leave."
Not everyone is so well prepared. But even hastily written farewells can make a splash. The investment banker, who was recently pink-slipped, said she had only minutes to ponder the content. She went for short, and not particularly sweet. 
"Adios!" said the subject line. Inside, the entire e-mail read: "It has been fun, but not lately. Keep in touch."
The banker proudly reported that hers was a marquee memo. "Mine was famous," she gushed. "I just thought of it and sent it two seconds later. I was proud of it. Wouldn't you be?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: AUTHOR -- Lincoln Ornston's goodbye e-mail to his firm took three hours. (Monica Graff for The New York Times)(pg. 8); (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (86%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DISMISSALS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (54%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; LEGAL PROFESSION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: ROSMAN, KATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



28 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Divide and Conquer: Duplexes May Ease the Way Into a Home

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
WHEN Beth Burke and her husband, Rick Osterberg, moved two summers ago to northern New Jersey from San Francisco, they immediately started hunting for houses within commuting distance of Manhattan. They looked at dozens of properties in several communities and even bid on a few of them, but most of the houses were beyond their budget.
 Still, they didn't stop searching, and this fall they finally bought their first home, in Bloomfield, N.J, about 15 miles northwest of New York City. But they are living in only half the house. 
 Like other first-time buyers grappling with rising house prices in many regions of the country, not to mention an uncertain economy and stock market, the couple decided on a two-family house. Once favored primarily by investors or couples with extended families, two- and three- family homes have become a solution for people who want to take advantage of historically low mortgage rates and get a slice of the American dream. 
In many cases, home buyers may have an easier time qualifying for mortgages on two-family homes, which are most prevalent in large urban areas, than on single-family houses. That is because the buyers can include rent in their income statements.
Of course, not everyone will want to own a two-family home. A prospective buyer must weigh the financial rewards of collecting a monthly rent check against the lifestyle changes that come with being a landlord and sharing a building with someone else.
"It wasn't something we were initially excited about," said Ms. Burke, 34, a producer at VH1. "But we realized we had to lower our standards."
She and Mr. Osterberg, a film editor and stay-at-home dad, and their son, Eric, 2, live in a large three-bedroom unit on the top floor, and they rent out the first floor for $950 a month. That helps them defray the $2,150 monthly mortgage payments on the house, which cost $290,000.
National figures on prices and sales of two-family homes are difficult to come by, but interviews with real estate agents and other housing experts around the country show that demand for these homes is rising.
"In many areas of the country, a lot of would-be homeowners are simply priced out of the market for single-family homes," said Sharon Steele, vice chairwoman of the National Association of Realtors.
Last week, the association reported that the median price of an existing home nationwide jumped nearly 10 percent in October, to $159,600, from $145,400 a year ago. In some parts of the country, price increases are much higher. In New Jersey, for instance, the median price of a single-family home was $261,000 in the third quarter, up nearly 17 percent from the period a year earlier, according to the New Jersey Association of Realtors.
Ms. Steele, who operates a real estate brokerage firm in Providence, R.I., that bears her name, says she often counsels sticker-shocked young buyers to consider two- or three-family properties as more affordable alternatives. "I tell them that they could wait a few years until they have more money," she said, "or buy a two-family home now and start building equity and availing themselves of the exceedingly low interest rates."
Many people seem to be taking that kind of advice. As demand grows, selling prices for two-unit homes in Providence are rising much faster than for single-family homes, Ms. Steele said. In the third quarter, she said, the median price of two-family homes was up nearly 25 percent from the same quarter in 2001, compared with a 10 percent increase for single-family homes, according to the Rhode Island Association of Realtors. 
But even with the rising prices of two- and three-family homes in some areas, they remain cost-effective options. Besides enjoying the tax benefits of homeownership, which include tax-deductible interest on mortgage payments, most buyers are able to count around 75 percent of the income from a rental unit, or the fair market value, as personal income to help qualify for a much higher mortgage.
JIM O'KANE, owner of ERA O'Kane Realty in Maspeth, Queens, where about 40 percent of the homes are two-family units, said demand for them was far outpacing the supply. He estimates that 70 percent of his current clients are looking for two-family properties, which typically sell for $400,000 to $440,000. Apartments in such units typically rent for $1,000 or more a month. "Most of these buyers just want a little help with their mortgages," he said. "Even if they could afford the mortgage on a single-family home, they feel more secure having the rental income."
Not all buyers are suited for such properties, experts warn. "This isn't something you should do just because the financials work better," said John H. Vogel Jr., an adjunct professor who teaches real estate and nonprofit management at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. "There are a lot of management responsibilities you're buying into."
The biggest responsibility, of course, is dealing with tenants. Experts recommend that buyers conduct thorough credit and reference checks on potential tenants and ask for security deposits. But what happens if the tenants are already occupying one of the units at the time of purchase? "Often you're stuck with the tenant and the terms of the tenant's lease," Ms. Steele said. Before you buy, she said, "you need to ask a lot of questions, like what their track record is for paying on time."
Keith and Christine Balaniz of Sparta, N.J., quickly learned the rent-paying habits of an apartment tenant in a two-family home they had owned in another town. "He always pulled a disappearing act around the first of the month," said Mr. Balaniz, 35, a software salesman. "He would come home very quietly, tiptoeing up the stairs, and wouldn't answer the phone or the door when the rent was due. We could hear him and smell his cigar smoke, but he would stay out of sight. We never got paid before the 15th of the month."
The couple often felt that their privacy was being invaded. Shortly after moving in, Mr. Balaniz recalled, they decided to celebrate by barbecuing on the back porch. Unfortunately, their tenant had the same idea. "Just as I was getting ready to light the grill, this lug nut was setting up a table for two in the grass to have a romantic dinner with his date," he said. "We ended up bringing the food inside."
In their two-family house in Bloomfield, Ms. Burke and Mr. Osterberg decided to live on the top floor to help maintain privacy. "In the last apartment we rented, the two girls who lived upstairs were always clomping around at 4 in the morning," Ms. Burke said. "At least in this arrangement, we won't have people above us."
Then there is the issue of repairs and maintenance, which can be expensive and time-consuming. "If you've got one water heater in your home," you can expect it to go kaput after every five years," Mr. Vogel said. "If you've got three, you've got one going kaput practically all of the time. So you've got to have more money in reserve for emergency repairs."
Ms. Burke said that before she was able to rent the vacant unit in her Bloomfield home, it had needed a "top to bottom" renovation. Mr. Osterberg completed most of the work on his own, often with his toddler son in tow. "I painted everything, sealed the showers, fixed the toilet and put window coverings in the front windows," he said. 
The prospect of having to do such handiwork has Melinda and Robert DeRocker thinking twice about plans to upgrade from their two-bedroom condominium to a two-family brownstone in Park Slope in Brooklyn. The couple have long yearned for more space and a yard, but they wonder whether they have the time to devote to landlord duties. Mr. DeRocker, 43, is vice president of a public relations firm and travels often for his job. "With Rob gone a lot, I don't relish the thought of getting a phone call at midnight from someone complaining that their toilet is overflowing," said Ms. DeRocker, 48, an actress and singer. 
Before they proceed, they plan to get feedback from other couples who have similar homes in the neighborhood. "We really need to know more about what we would be getting into," Mr. DeRocker said.
Real estate experts advise doing some homework. "Don't let the romance of home ownership delude you into making a decision that might not be right for you," said Anita Carter, an associate broker for Charles H. Greenthal Residential Sales in Manhattan. Ms. Carter also says buyers should not overestimate their rental income on mortgage applications. "You should be very conservative because the rental market could change at any time," she said.
Other experts recommend that owners of two-family homes set up an emergency fund to help pay the mortgage, in case the rental unit is unoccupied for several months. That is especially helpful in areas where rentals are seasonal.
Despite the headaches, some buyers say the payoff is worth it. Ms. Burke said she and her husband would never have been able to afford a single-family property in the area where they are now living, which is just blocks from more affluent communities. "We're still in a great area," she said, "and I can walk to the train, which was really important to me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Buying a two-family house in Bloomfield, N.J., left and above, has had financial advantages for Rick Osterberg, his wife, Beth Burke, and their 2-year-old son, Eric. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FAMILY (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; MORTGAGES 

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



29 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Stepping Up inTV, Without Stepping on Toes

BYLINE:  By NEAL KOCH

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
DURING a basketball game a few years ago at the home of Michael Tollin, a Hollywood producer, a little-known actor named Tom Cavanagh accidentally slammed into Mr. Tollin and broke his nose. In two weeks Mr. Tollin resumed playing, against his doctor's orders, and later invited Mr. Cavanagh back -- never uttering a harsh word, recalls Mr. Cavanagh, now the star of NBC's "Ed." The two men have become friends.
 Competitiveness and camaraderie like that have helped Mr. Tollin and his partner, Brian Robbins, as well as their company, Tollin/Robbins Productions, advance into the ranks of what The Hollywood Reporter, a trade paper, calls television's superproducers. It is a club that includes David E. Kelley ("The Practice"), John Wells ("E.R.") and Jerry Bruckheimer ("CSI"). 
 In seven years, Mr. Tollin, 47, and Mr. Robbins, 39, have turned their backgrounds in sports documentaries and cable children's programming into profitable mainstream films, like "Big Fat Liar" and "Varsity Blues," and prime-time TV series, like "Smallville," now a signature show for WB. 
Perhaps more important, they have done it by embracing the entertainment industry's consolidation. Their company, which has already been bought and sold a few times, is now owned by Clear Channel Communications of San Antonio, the nation's largest radio broadcast company, which is using it as a beachhead into film and TV.
Clear Channel's expansion in Hollywood may well depend on whether it can keep Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins. Riding a wave of success, they are pressing Clear Channel for early renegotiations on their contract, which expires in a year. 
Mr. Robbins said they wanted to stay with Clear Channel, but he mentioned other options. "Do we get sucked up by a big giant studio?" he asked aloud during an interview. "Do we go back to the way we were -- grow the company with our own money? The good news: it's our pick right now."
He pointed out that his company's shows had been cited by Entertainment Weekly as a reason the chief executive of Clear Channel's entertainment division, Brian Becker, was ranked ninth on the magazine's 2002 entertainment industry power list.
Steve Smith, the chief operating officer of the entertainment division, praised Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins. But he would not comment on whether he would meet their demands, which they decline to disclose.
RELATIONS between Tollin/Robbins and Clear Channel are still amicable. In fact, Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins credit Clear Channel with helping promote their WB shows, like "Smallville," on many of its 1,200 radio stations. And not just in commercials. Clear Channel encourages its disk jockeys to talk up the programs. "It's the difference between playing a record and loving a band," said Mr. Smith. "You become a cheerleader."
Clear Channel says its outdoor advertising division also has been helping with contributions of kiosk and bench space at malls where teenage girls -- WB's mainstay audience -- congregate. Clear Channel's live entertainment unit has been helping, too, by e-mailing Tollin/Robbins show promotions to some buyers of the more than 70 million tickets it has said it will sell this year.
WB credits such efforts with helping to jump-start Tollin/Robbins programs. "The clout and reach of Clear Channel is definitely a weapon in the arsenal of a network's program launch," said Paul McGuire, a WB spokesman. "Smallville" has helped put the network in first place among teenage girls. 
Income from Tollin/Robbins has helped buoy Clear Channel's profits, even as the parent company's other units fight an advertising slump and a weak economy.
Clear Channel, which had revenue of $6.2 billion in the first nine months of the year, does not break out the financial performance of Tollin/Robbins, and Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins wouldn't either. But the Warner Brothers studio and Viacom's Nickelodeon children's cable channel pay for the costs of making their shows, while Tollin/Robbins earns fees, minimum payments for creative work and a share of profits when a network show is sold for reruns.
Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins may be trying to use their successes, and potential departure, to pressure Clear Channel into throwing its promotional punch into their films, like "The Perfect Score," an MTV movie about youths who plan to steal a college entrance exam. Mr. Robbins directed the film, which may be released in March.
Not all Tollin/Robbins creations have been unqualified successes. Early efforts failed for both WB, a unit of AOL Time Warner, and Nickelodeon. "SlamBall," an extreme-sport show on TNN combining basketball, trampolines and ice hockey rules, has not yet been picked up for a second season, though Mr. Tollin said he expects that to happen. "Birds of Prey," a recasting of "Batman" with three superheroines, was canceled by WB last month. And Tollin/Robbins films have received mixed reviews. 
But by Hollywood standards, the men have a reputation for civility. During the shooting of six episodes of "SlamBall" in less than a week, for example, Mr. Tollin, who was at the helm, was under tremendous pressure, says Pat Croce, the former president of the Philadelphia 76ers who is a partner in the show and has appeared as a commentator. Yet he says Mr. Tollin never yelled. "I've dealt with all kinds -- they are a breath of fresh air," Mr. Croce said of Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins.
Tollin/Robbins films, including "Radio," starring Ed Harris and Cuba Gooding Jr., which Mr. Tollin is now directing in South Carolina, tend toward redemptive tales of men helping youths or the disenfranchised recognize their worth, often through sports.
Mr. Tollin, who grew up in a sports-obsessed family from Philadelphia, started in films about sports and children's programs, earning three Emmys, and his documentary "Hank Aaron: Chasing the Dream" was nominated for an Oscar and won a Peabody Award. He was a strong advocate of the Tollin/Robbins series "Arli$$," about an ethically challenged sports agent, which just completed a seven-year run on HBO.
Mr. Robbins, born Brian Levine in the Marine Park section of Brooklyn, dropped out of U.C.L.A. to follow in the footsteps of his father, Floyd Levine, a character actor, who suggested that the son adopt the maiden name of Floyd's mother so casting directors would see Brian as his own man. Mr. Robbins landed in "Head of the Class," the 1980's sitcom in which he played an exceptionally bright student.
Within the first year Mr. Robbins also began writing episodes. "He just had a lot of moxie," said Howard Hesseman, the actor who played a teacher on the show. When Mr. Robbins needed a producer for the first show he created, pitting sports stars against celebrities in a basketball tournament on Maui, he called Robbie Rowe, an Emmy award-winning producer. Ms. Rowe replied, "Right house, wrong spouse," and gave the phone to her husband, Mr. Tollin. The two hit it off.
In 1995, they created "All That," a successful children's version of "Saturday Night Live," for Nickelodeon. Now, they program the channel's entire Saturday prime-time lineup.
THE pair broke into films in 1997 when Paramount, another Viacom division, asked them to expand a sketch from Nickelodeon into the movie "Good Burger" -- for release just five months later. Made for only about $8.5 million, "Good Burger" drew $24 million at the box office. "We were in the movie business," Mr. Robbins said.
Paramount then gave them a teenage sports script that had been languishing. They turned it into "Varsity Blues," starring James Van Der Beek, a new idol for teenagers from his role in the WB hit "Dawson's Creek." Pumped by ads on MTV -- another Viacom unit -- the $15 million film earned $53 million at the box office.
Just as the film was opening in 1998, Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins were approached by Bob Gutkowski, the president of the Marquee Group, a sports management agency, who offered them $20 million in cash for their company. "This doesn't make any sense," Mr. Robbins recalled saying. "Why would they pay this much money?"
Mr. Gutkowski said he had wanted Hollywood glitter to entice more athletes and Wall Street investment capital to his company. (In an interview, he also acknowledged that he had wanted to appear on "Arli$$" as president of Madison Square Garden, a job from which he had been dismissed in real life. Instead, he got an off-camera role holding cue cards in a cameo by George Steinbrenner, owner of the New York Yankees.)
Mr. Tollin and Mr. Robbins were offered an additional $5 million, plus performance bonuses and creative control, to stay with the company for five years. They accepted.
Marquee was quickly sold to SFX, a live-concert promotion company, which was then sold to Clear Channel in 2000, making Tollin/Robbins a largely autonomous anomaly in a huge company.
Shortly thereafter, Warner Brothers, which had recently started the teenager-oriented WB network, signed Tollin/Robbins to one of the most coveted development deals, ceding the producers rare freedom -- and money -- to develop projects and take them to any network. So far, though, they have only supplied WB, where their shows include "What I Like About You," with Amanda Bynes, the star of Nickelodeon's "Amanda," and "Black Sash," about a martial arts hero, scheduled to air in March.
Their biggest film could turn out to be this year's "Big Fat Liar," with Frankie Muniz, star of "Malcolm in the Middle," and Ms. Bynes.
Clear Channel officials say they expect Tollin/Robbins to expand. But Clear Channel is still a relative neophyte in film and TV, and it must first negotiate a new contract with two star players who have a home-court advantage.
"People may take Clear Channel seriously in music," said Charles Slocum, assistant executive director of the Writers Guild of America, West. In Hollywood, however, "if they say, 'I'm from Clear Channel and it's about TV,' they're going to say, 'Who?' But if they say they're from Tollin/Robbins, they'll take the call."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian Robbins, above, and Michael Tollin, in foreground at left, have turned their professional backgrounds in sports documentaries and cable children's programming into profitable films like "Big Fat Liar." (Robert Galbraith for The New York Times); (Michael Tackett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (87%); SPORTS (78%); FILM (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (71%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%) TELEVISION 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: TOLLIN/ROBBINS PRODUCTIONS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%) SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS; 

PERSON: JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (58%) ROBBINS, BRIAN; TOLLIN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



30 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon's Urgent Search For Speed 

BYLINE:  By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WESTMINSTER, Md. 

 BODY:
IN soldier slang, the interval between a gun's recoil and the shell's explosion is known as "flash-to-bang time." In combat, the shorter it is, the better.
 With war looming in Iraq, the term has taken on broader significance -- in both the business of war and the business of supplying warriors. Everyone wants shorter flash-to-bang -- from the moment a target is spotted to the moment it is destroyed, from the moment a march is ordered to the moment troops arrive, from the moment of invention to the moment of production and delivery. 
 That is why, here in the rural hills of Maryland, at a robotics laboratory owned by General Dynamics, the engineers boast that their new driverless vehicles, little armored off-road trucks bulging with lenses and antennae, can maneuver through the woods and fields at a snappy 15 or 20 miles an hour (10 at night). 
And that is why General Dynamics, after just two years working on the vehicles, is ready to brief the brass on how robotic vehicles like this could transform combat units. The company says the firepower of a full infantry battalion could be packed into a unit of about one-third the people: 270 soldiers equipped with 140 robots.
The same quick tempo can be seen across the military industrial complex. Faster-moving infantry, smarter bombs, newer satellites, pilotless vehicles -- are all being propelled by a wartime sense of urgency in what is sure to be a costly quest for speed. The average time between finding a target and hitting it dropped to 15 minutes in Afghanistan a year ago from 45 minutes in the Persian Gulf war of 1991. And the Pentagon is pushing to trim that even more.
At Boeing, thousands of kits are being produced each month to turn unguided bombs into the satellite-guided smart bombs that were used more widely in Afghanistan than in any previous war. Pentagon leaders have promised that if there is war in Iraq, there will be plenty of smart bombs.
Before a satellite can guide a bomb to target, the satellite must carry target information among soldiers, pilots and commanders. With today's satellites swamped by a growing demand, manufacturers like Boeing and Lockheed Martin are eagerly awaiting the order to move ahead with a next-generation satellite, using lasers for the first time to communicate in outer space.
The lessons of Afghanistan, as well as the pressing possibility of war against Iraq, are speeding production of remote-controlled aircraft like the Predator, which the military uses to track targets and the C.I.A. has used to kill people identified as Al Qaeda leaders in Afghanistan and Yemen. This year, Congress is allowing $131 million to buy 22 more Predators, made by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems. And $129 million more is to be spent on three of the Predator's much larger, more capable and more expensive cousin, the Global Hawk surveillance drone, made by Northrop Grumman. Global Hawk was rushed into service in Afghanistan, and its capabilities are still being upgraded with new sensors. (The price of a souped-up model would be about twice as much.)
"Speed is helpful if you know what you're looking at and can identify in near real time what your targets are," said Stephen A. Cambone, the under secretary of defense for policy, in a recent briefing on the military's spending priorities. "You say, 'Gee, if I can get that kind of real-time information, speed then is worth having.' " But, he stressed, "speed's expensive."
With American troops still engaged in Afghanistan and getting ready for a possible war against Iraq, and with the Bush administration promising a "transformation" of the military, Congress appears willing to pay the price. In recent years, it has increased the military's budget beyond what the president requested, and military spending is now growing at its highest rate in 20 years. With Republicans controlling both chambers, President Bush is sure to get a warm reception for another spending increase in 2004.
David Strauss, who follows the military industry for UBS Warburg, predicts that spending on research, development and procurement will accelerate to 8 or 10 percent annually over the next few years, adjusted for inflation, after real growth of 4 percent annually since 1996. (In the early 1990's, he says, the Pentagon went on a "procurement holiday.")
Of the total military budget of about $370 billion, procurement this year will come to about $71.6 billion, up $10.7 billion from 2002, while spending on research and development will come to $58.6 billion, up $9.9 billion, in the spending bill signed by President Bush on Oct. 23. It sounds like a lot, but in fact the money for procurement is roughly 40 percent less than it was 20 years ago, adjusted for inflation. In 1983, during the Reagan military buildup, procurement spending came to $121 billion in today's dollars.
More notable than the spending spree itself, though, is where the money is being focused.
President Bush made the new emphasis clear last December, when he gave a major speech on military transformation. He highlighted three trends that were already becoming evident in the war in Afghanistan: the increasing use of robotic vehicles, the wider use of precisely guided bombs and the reliance on information-sharing networks.
"Our commanders are gaining a real-time picture of the entire battlefield and are able to get targeting information from sensor to shooter almost immediately," he said.
"Every soldier is a sensor," said Scott D. Myers, the president of the robotic systems division at General Dynamics and vice president of its Eagle Enterprises subsidiary, which is bidding on the modernization of equipment for foot soldiers. "And from the time he lases the target until the time the robotic vehicle selects its weapon and fires will be about five seconds."
The Army has been moving in this direction for years.
Late one night in September 2000, 45 paratroopers of the 82nd Airborne Division dropped from the dark skies over Fort Polk, La., for a mock combat drill against other Army troops. They wore an unconventional assortment of night-vision goggles, miniature computers and communications gear, a prototype of what the Army calls its Land Warrior system. The equipment had been cobbled together in just a year, and this was its first test.
The results were good enough that only a year later, similar equipment was delivered to American Special Forces units, which used it in Afghanistan.
It might cost billions of dollars to equip tens of thousands of soldiers with the full array of this gear, according to a report by the Pentagon's inspector general. But the Army is phasing it in -- even as it begins a program to invent an even more elaborate set of tools for foot soldiers.
The competition to design the new combat kit pits General Dynamics, a giant with $14 billion in annual revenue, against a tiny entrepreneurial company, Exponent Inc., which has not been a traditional military contractor. Exponent has enlisted several partners, including Hamilton Sunstrand, a unit of United Technologies, whose expertise in making spacesuits for NASA is a big advantage. Conversely, General Dynamics has turned to its Eagle Enterprise unit, acquired a few years ago, to be the kind of entrepreneur the Army is looking for. Each team has been given $7.5 million to produce conceptual designs and some prototypes, with an April deadline.
The ultimate goal is to reduce the amount of equipment carried by an individual soldier to roughly 50 pounds from more than 100, while greatly increasing the lethality of his weapons. Pentagon budget documents call the program "a leap ahead" and promise that it will achieve "revolutionary capabilities." The Army has projected spending of about $60 million a year for the next several years on research into the program and has projected that the new equipment will be ready for combat use in a half-dozen years or so. 
Each soldier will have hand-held computers to control weapons, check maps and view pictures of the surrounding terrain. Individual radios will link the group into a tight team even as they spread out in the darkness; each team will be linked to others and to robots. In a squad of soldiers, one might carry a miniature drone aircraft capable, for instance, of flying around a city block to look for the enemy.
Even combat fatigues will be transformed. Synthetic undergarments will put sensors on the soldier's skin to monitor his physical condition, reporting if he needs medical attention. Several layers of lightweight clothing would include body armor and protection against chemical or biological attack. 
With a vest or other garment designed like an electric blanket, a soldier might even be able to run a cord back to one of the robotic vehicles, which would provide a power supply for the many electronic devices each soldier would carry. (New batteries, carried by each soldier, are also being investigated; designed to last for many hours, they would be recharged by the robotic vehicles.)
But there are many kinks in any such futuristic scheme. Congressional committees, while supporting the Pentagon's development of hybrid-electric power for vehicles like the robots the Army wants, have asked for periodic progress reports, citing worries that they might not function well in extreme cold. That would be a problem, for example, for a unit deployed in the mountains of the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan in the dead of winter, unable to recharge communications batteries or warm up soldiers' uniforms.
All the emphasis on seamless communications among troops, ships and planes, and the visions of individual soldiers sending maps and photographs back and forth, or robots sending home streams of videos, have a glaring weakness: there is not enough telecommunications capacity, or bandwidth, on the military's satellites.
"You need a lot of bandwidth to move that kind of data around," said Mr. Cambone at the Pentagon. "Think about whether you would have been able to use your 286 computer to work the Internet as it exists today. You can't do it."
According to Boeing, one satellite maker, that became clear when American forces in Afghanistan found themselves short of enough radio channels even for their more limited tactical communications. To fill the gap, the Navy activated a nine-year-old satellite that had been put in orbit over Africa as a spare. The old satellite added 15 percent more communications capability to the military forces in the region.
The problem has been known for some time. After the military's deployment in Bosnia, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency reported that only a few select headquarters were able to get enough bandwidth for large-scale exchanges of information.
"One thing we've learned," said Lt. Gen. Harry D. Raduege Jr., the director of the Defense Information Systems Agency, "is that with each conflict that we have, we certainly increase the amount of bandwidth that is required for our deployed war fighters."
The need for a new satellite system to carry videoconferences between commanders, let alone the huge amounts of data shared by troops on the ground, became especially evident after Sept. 11, according to a Pentagon document. In response, the Pentagon has proposed a crash program to design and field a new satellite system, known as the Advanced Wideband System, starting this year and with the first launching in 2006.
Unlike previous satellite communications systems, this one would use a new kind of link entirely: one based on laser communications. As a mark of its importance to the technology revolution the Pentagon is seeking, it is being called by a new name: the transformational satellite.
Nobody can say yet how much this will cost. But for a sense of the project's scale, a set of satellites viewed as a temporary solution and known as the Wideband Gapfiller Satellite is being built for $1.3 billion by a team led by Boeing. In a change from past practices, the satellite relies heavily on commercial technology, which will make it available earlier but will leave it more vulnerable to certain kinds of attack, like the electromagnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion in space.
Another upgrade of satellites using extremely high frequency, or EHF, signals, known as the Advanced EHF Satellite and set for launching in 2006, is being built by Lockheed Martin Space Systems and TRW Space and Electronics for $2.7 billion.
Air Force officials have said that if the laser technology comes along fast enough, they may decide not to buy the fourth and fifth Advanced EHF satellites, instead moving quickly to the laser-based version. But they will not be ready for that decision until the end of 2004. "Depends a little bit on how much risk has been reduced by that point," said Peter B. Teets, the Air Force under secretary.
MILITARY analysts have already wondered whether all this communications capability is too expensive. Marco A. Caceres, an analyst at the Teal Group, an aerospace research firm, warned at an industry conference in January that some satellite systems are already behind schedule, and that there will be pressure on the military to lease capacity from commercial satellites rather than building its own so hastily.
Others, like Loren B. Thompson of the independent Lexington Institute, caution that the Pentagon may commit too much, too soon to technologies that may be overrated on the basis of unusual recent wars -- notably the victory over the poorly trained and under-equipped Taliban forces in Afghanistan. 
"The incompetence of our adversaries has given us an exaggerated idea of how much progress we have made in transforming our forces," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A military overhaul has led to products like a driverless armored truck, above foreground, developed by General Dynamics. Boeing makes kits, left, to convert unguided bombs into smart bombs. (Boeing); (General Dynamics)(pg. 1); A robot truck at a General Dynamics shop at Westminster, Md.; A surveillance sensor with range finder is a component for remote-controlled military vehicles being developed by General Dynamics. (Photographs by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "Stepping Up Production"The Pentagon is pushing contractors to bolster production of a variety of advanced hardware. Here is a sample. JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MISSILES -- Satellite-guided smart bombsCONTRACTOR -- Boeing, which makes a $20,000 guidance kit that is attached to conventional bombs. The kit uses GPS navigation signals and steers the bombs.RECENT DEVELOPMENTS -- Since Afghanistan, where the military used about 6,000 of these bombs, the Pentagon has raised production at a factory near St. Louis to about 2,000 kits a month, increasing to about 2,800 a month by next summer. COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITES -- Wideband Gapfiller; Advanced EHF; Advanced WidebandCONTRACTORS -- Boeing Satellite Systems, Harris (Gapfiller); Lockheed Martin Space Systems, Hughes Space and Communications and TRW (Advanced EHF)RECENT DEVELOPMENTS -- The Pentagon is working to quickly expand its capacity to transmit video and other information. The Gapfiller relies heavily on commercial technology and should be launched in 2004. Orders for Advanced EHF satellites, currently five units, might be scaled back to three if development of the Advanced Wideband, still being studied, is successful. REMOTELY PILOTED VEHICLES -- Predator; Global HawkCONTRACTORS -- General Atomics Aeronautical Systems (Predator); Northrop Grumman (Global Hawk)RECENT DEVELOPMENTS -- Congress recently approved purchases, worth $260 million, of 22 more Predators and 3 Global Hawk aircraft in 2003. Rushed into use in Afghanistan before development was completed, the Global Hawk is also being upgraded. ADVANCED INFANTRY GEAR -- Equipment for "Objective Force Warrior"CONTRACTORS -- General Dynamics; Exponent (with Wexford Group International, Booz Allen Hamilton, Wyle Laboratories, Charles River Analytics and Hamilton Sunstrand)RECENT DEVELOPMENTS -- Contractors were awarded $7.5 million each develop prototypes of high-technology gear for soldiers, including head-to-toe clothing to protect against bullets or chemicals, batteries or fuel cells to power lightweight radios, longer-range rifles and scopes, hand-held computers and miniature robots that could search for the enemy. The equipment is supposed to be fielded by 2008.(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ROBOTICS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (74%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (69%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (55%) AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (56%); BOEING CO (53%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); GENERAL ATOMICS AERONAUTICAL SYSTEMS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (GD) 

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); LMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); SIC3443 FABRICATED PLATE WORK (BOILER SHOPS) (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



31 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2332 words

HEADLINE: Two Families, Two Empires andOne Big Brawl at the Mall 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
THE former chairman of Sotheby's, A. Alfred Taubman, now inmate No. 50444-054 at the Federal Medical Center in Rochester, Minn., is not permitted to conduct business during the 10 minutes a day he is allowed to make calls on his monitored prison phone.
 So when Taubman Centers, the real estate empire of upscale shopping malls he founded in 1950 with a $5,000 loan, received a $1.48 billion hostile takeover bid two weeks ago from his thriftier rivals, the Simon family, he had to read about it in the newspapers. 
 As he expected, his son Robert, the chairman of Taubman Centers, flatly rejected the bid. Citing the Taubman family's trump card -- it controls nearly a third of the votes -- and its opposition to selling, the board said the offer from the Simon family's company, the Simon Property Group, based here, was dead on arrival. "Given the family's position, any efforts to purchase Taubman Centers would not be productive," it said about an hour after the bid crossed the ticker. 
It was only then that the real surprises began for the older Mr. Taubman, who is serving a year and a day in federal prison for leading a price-fixing scheme with his rival Christies that swindled auction-house customers out of more than $100 million.
Simon Property, the nation's largest owner of malls, including the biggest in the country, the Mall of America near Minneapolis, has decided to play hardball. It is challenging the Taubman family's control over Taubman Centers, arguing in news releases that the family "surreptitiously" took control of the shopping mall business in 1998 by creating "a permanent corporate governance defect embedded in the company's structure" -- and it has a chance of winning. Or, at least, making it a fight.
Taubman Centers dismisses accusations of impropriety as "utterly baseless," saying that it issued special shares to Taubman family members that year to better align the financial interests of all stakeholders in its many businesses.
Nonetheless, this week the Simons are expected to go to the shareholders to seek their shares in Taubman, probably with a new, higher offer, and to file lawsuits seeking to overturn the Taubmans' voting control over the company.
The fight pits two of the nation's most storied real estate families against each other and has created a rift in the clubby world of real estate investors. Some of Taubman Centers' longtime investors, many of whom consider themselves friends of the family, are outraged by the Taubmans' unwillingness to consider selling; others are dismissive of the way the Simons are going about their bid.
"In our little world, this situation is a bit -- how would you say it? -- uncouth," said one investor in both companies who spoke only on condition of anonymity for fear of alienating the families.
Couth has indeed yielded to cudgels. The Taubmans have gone on the offensive, accusing the Simons of being hypocritical about their own corporate governance structure, which has its own set of mechanisms to block a hostile acquisition.
"Unlike the Taubman family's voting rights, which are in exact proportion to the family's significant economic interest in Taubman Centers, the Simon family has an extraordinary veto power to block any sale or merger transaction of Simon Property Group," Taubman Centers said in a news release in mid-November.
The Simons volleyed fast. "Unlike the Taubman family, the Simon family has no veto power or other control mechanism that could block a sale or merger transaction as the company claims," they said in a release.
Later, the Simons' deal team acknowledged that, strictly speaking, this statement was "a mistake." It said that the family apparently can block a merger, just not in the same way that the Taubmans can.
David Simon, the chief executive of Simon Property and the son of the company's co-founder, Melvin Simon, shrugs off the criticism. "As far as I know, no one's made an offer for us, O.K.?" he said. "So I don't feel like we have to defend our position."
Still, the Simons' only chance of success lies in challenging the Taubmans' control over the company that bears their name. And that goes back to the way the Taubman empire is put together. The publicly traded company, Taubman Centers, based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is a real estate investment trust that owns a stake in an operating partnership, the Taubman Realty Group. The partnership owns the properties, which include two dozen malls like the Beverly Center in Los Angeles and the new 1.2 million-square-foot Mall at Millenia in Orlando, Fla. (Most real estate companies have complicated structures to reduce taxes owed by founding families.)
Until 1998, the Taubman family did not have voting control of the publicly traded company. The family's economic interest and voting rights were tied up in the operating partnership.
On Aug. 18, 1998, however, another major investor in the partnership, the General Motors Pension Trust, said it wanted to swap its investment for direct control of 10 malls. That prompted a restructuring of the partnership that significantly affected the publicly traded company, though many investors say that was anything but clear at the time.
In a news release, Taubman Centers announced its restructuring, which it said would "simplify its governance structure to reflect increased public ownership."
What went unsaid was that the Taubmans were issued special stock -- Series B shares -- that cost them a total of only $38,400 but effectively gave them blocking rights for any takeover. The arrangement was not disclosed until the company filed a routine statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission a full month later, and even then it was buried in verbiage.
"You would have to read the company's filings on a daily basis to know about it," Mr. Simon said. "I don't think it's the right way to operate, certainly in today's world," he added, sitting on a sofa in his office here, overlooking one of his malls, Circle Centre. "Frankly, I have yet to know of a shareholder that truly understands what happened here."
Taubman Centers does not have an explanation for why it never mentioned the arrangement in the release, either. Robert Taubman says his family was issued the special shares properly, "not in the dark of night" but after a long review of governance practices by outside advisers and a vote by the board, which the family does not control.
"It's not news to people," he said. "It's been sitting on the front page of the proxy for the last four years. It's not like we haven't been voting the Series B shares for four years."
According to Robert Taubman, the shares were issued to align the financial interests of all stakeholders, both in the publicly traded company and the operating partnership. Mr. Simon, he said, is "trying to throw a red herring against the wall and hope it sticks."
MR. SIMON says the Taubmans' view of the business as one company is wrongheaded. "If they are not two different entities, then why do they have two different financial statements?" he asked. "There's the public company that owns an interest in a partnership and then there's the partnership. The limited partners should not be allowed to disfranchise the public company at all."
Many large shareholders of Taubman Centers interviewed for this article said they were unaware that the 1998 restructuring had given the family the ability to block a deal. None of those investors would speak for the record, but all suggested that the board had a fiduciary duty to consider their interests.
Barry Vinocur, editor of The Realty Stock Review, wrote in a recent note to clients that the directors had some explaining to do. "It's our view that if the Taubman independent board members haven't already retained separate advisers, they need to do so, and fast," he wrote, referring to legal as well as financial advisers. (So far, they have not.) 
"Given the current national focus on corporate governance issues, do the independent board members really want to be in the position of appearing to thumb their noses at rank-and-file shareholders?" Mr. Vinocur added. "Moreover, we believe that certain Taubman family members are in the same position. For instance, Bobby Taubman, the company's chairman and C.E.O., owes a fiduciary duty to investors as well."
Robert Taubman agreed that he had a fiduciary duty to shareholders -- himself among them, he said. He added that the board had properly considered the Simons' bid and rejected it. "Just because David's decided it's a good time for him to do this doesn't mean it's appropriate for us," he said of the company and the family.
Wall Street has a lot riding on this brouhaha. Goldman, Sachs and the law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz -- the same team that set up the 1998 restructuring plan that gave the Taubman family the Series B shares, raising questions about a potential conflict of interest -- are defending Taubman Centers; Merrill Lynch and Willkie Farr & Gallagher are playing the aggressors on the Simon side.
As it happens, two of the Wachtell, Lipton partners working with Taubman Centers -- Adam O. Emmerich and Robin Panovka -- are particularly suited for this fight. They predicted in an article they wrote two years ago for Business Lawyer, a quarterly, that the structure of real estate investment trusts "can create complex conflicts of interest between the directors of the REIT and the limited partners, which are often heightened in the context of change of control transactions." Another Wachtell partner, David M. Einhorn, was a co-author.
To get a sense of the difference between Taubman and Simon properties, one need look no farther than the New Jersey suburbs of New York.
The Mall at Short Hills, with its Saks, Nordstrom and Tiffany's, is bauble-filled, the cost of the goods inside matched only by the cost of the Hummers and Ferraris parked outside. The Taubmans own it. It is as rich and icy as Brenda Patimkin, Philip Roth's pampered Short Hills princess in "Goodbye, Columbus."
About four miles away is the Livingston Mall, Simon Country. Livingston is another upscale mall, but less extravagant than the Taubman property in Short Hills. There is plenty of money in Livingston -- floors are accented with marble -- but less brass and flash. At Livingston, Macy's is the luxury anchor; at Short Hills, Macy's represents what passes for economical shopping.
The contrasts in management styles of the two companies are almost as stark. While Taubman Centers often leaves floor space unrented for months as it waits to attract what it regards as the perfect tenant, Simon Property is much quicker to fill empty space with the best tenant it can find at the time.
The Simons squeeze rent out of everything. They have made a $100 million-a-year business of renting space in mall corridors to vendors operating out of carts. The Taubmans forbid cart sales, saying they can charge higher rents for their store space because retailers prefer a less-cluttered setting and appreciate that there is no competition from cart vendors trying to get a piece of every customer's wallet.
Despite its upscale properties, Taubman Centers, which earned $7.7 million last year on $341 million in revenue (but posted a $8.9 million loss after paying preferred stock dividends), has not outperformed its shopping-mall peers, analysts said. Before the takeover offer, its shares were flat this year, while shares in Simon, which earned $199 million on $2 billion in revenue, surged 18 percent this year before it made its bid. (After paying preferred stock dividends, profits dropped to $148 million.) Mall companies have generally outperformed the overall market because retail sales have held up in an otherwise sluggish economy.
If a longer period is considered -- five years, for example -- the companies' total returns are closely aligned. Taubman Centers has stumbled recently because of weak rents at its newest properties: the Dolphin Mall in Miami and the Shops at Willow Bend in Plano, Tex. Simon Property's offer values Taubman at more than its stock has ever traded; before Simon made its bid, Taubman Centers' record high was $16, reached in April; it now trades at $16.28.
SO far, the financial merits of the Simons' $17.50-a-share offer have yet to be examined in depth, but analysts say they expect a higher offer from them.
"We do not believe Simon's initial offer was its first, or its best," Jonathan Lift, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, wrote in a note to investors. "Ultimately, we believe the Taubman family and Taubman board will eventually embrace an enhanced offer."
Mr. Lift also offered a reason the Taubmans may feel pressure to accept an offer. Referring to Taubman Centers by its stock symbol, he wrote, "The value of TCO stock could be permanently impaired in the eyes of the public if a fair offer was made and turned down."
If arbitrage activity is any indication, the Simons' chances look slim. Taubman Centers' stock has remained below the Simons' offer price. Investors do not appear ready to bet that the Taubmans will capitulate or that a judge will side with the Simons.
As rationale, some investors point to the way the Taubman family refused to entertain a sale of Sotheby's in 1999, when a federal investigation of Sotheby's heated up. The stock of Sotheby's has tumbled more than 80 percent since then; the company is now on the block.
The outcome now rests on two things, merger experts said. A judge could rule in favor of the Simons, giving them a chance. Even then, however, they would need staying power. The battle to win control, which could well include two proxy fights for board seats, could take two years or more.
Regardless of how the dynastic feud ends, Mr. Simon said he wanted to avoid a rift between the families.
"It may be hard to believe, but I consider Bobby a friend," he said. "I hope he's still my friend. I'd like to go play golf with him."
The younger Mr. Taubman was less sanguine. "With friends like this," he said, "who needs enemies?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Simon is chief executive of the Simon Property Group, the biggest owner of American malls. He is fighting to take over Taubman Centers, a tonier shopping empire. The companies are now accusing each other of having unfair voting structures. (Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A. Alfred Taubman, left, is in prison. His family business faces a takeover bid by the mall company Melvin Simon, right, helped found. (Reuters, 1995); (Associated Press)(pg. 13) Chart: "Families Feud"The Taubman Centers, an upscale shopping mall real estate investment trust, received a $1.48 billion hostile takeover bid two weeks ago from a rival, the Simon Property Group. The company flatly refused the offer, but its share price rose after the news. SIMON PROPERTY GROUP2001 REVENUE: $2.05 billion2001 NET INCOME*: $147.8 millionMARKET CAPITALIZATION: $6.33 billionPROPERTIES (As of 3rd qtr. 02):171 malls69 shopping centers4 specialty retail centers5 office and mixed-use properties TAUBMAN CENTERS2001 REVENUE: $341.4 million2001 NET LOSS*: $8.9 millionMARKET CAPITALIZATION: $837.1 millionPROPERTIES (As of 3rd qtr. 02): 19 malls *Applicable to common shareholders Graph tracks the percentage change of the Bloomberg Reit Retail index and share prices for Taubman Centers and Simon Property Group since 1998. (Sources: Company reports; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); PRESS RELEASES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); PRISONS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); CARTELS (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); PRICE FIXING (65%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (63%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP; SOTHEBY'S HOLDINGS INC (BID) 

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (73%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%) SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: DAVID SIMON (92%); A ALFRED TAUBMAN (90%) SIMON, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (88%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (78%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) MINNESOTA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



32 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Dismissedand Sued, but Nothing Personal

BYLINE:  By Barnaby J. Feder (COMPILED BY RICK GLADSTONE)

 BODY:
In 2000, Doron Kempel was an up-and-coming young executive at EMC, the data storage company. The next year, he was among the thousands of EMC employees laid off as sales and profits plummeted, but he appeared to land on his feet as chief executive of SANgate, a start-up data storage company. 
 EMC's response was quick: it successfully sued to force him to give up the SANgate job on the ground that he had violated a promise not to work for a competitor for at least one year. 
 Apparently, there were no hard feelings on either side. A few weeks ago, Mr. Kempel resurfaced as chairman and chief executive of a new EMC-backed data storage software company called Diligent Technologies. Diligent is based in Framingham, Mass., not far from EMC's headquarters in Hopkinton, but most of its operations are at a former EMC facility near Tel Aviv acquired by Mr. Kempel and Moshe Yanai, a former technology executive at EMC. 
"Even though EMC sued me, I still had good relations with the key executives," Mr. Kempel said. "It was business, so we went on." Barnaby J. Feder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (53%) LEGAL PROFESSION; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: EMC CORP (EMC) 

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: KEMPEL, DORON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



33 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Hypocrisy of Farm Subsidies 

 BODY:
When Mexican corn farmers tramp through their fields behind donkey-drawn plows, they have one goal: to eke out a living. Increasingly, however, they find themselves saddled with mountains of unsold produce because farmers in Kansas and Nebraska sell their own corn in Mexico at prices well below those of the Mexicans. This is not primarily due to higher efficiency. The Americans' real advantage comes from huge taxpayer-provided subsidies that allow them to sell overseas at 20 percent below the actual cost of production. In other words, we subsidize our farmers so heavily that they can undersell poor competitors abroad. And just to make sure, we have tariff barriers in place that make it extremely hard for many third world farmers to sell in the United States. The same is true for their efforts to sell in Europe and Japan. The world's farming system is rigged in favor of the rich. 
 There is an old saying: Give a man a fish, and you feed him for a day. Teach him how to fish, and you feed him for a lifetime. Mention "agricultural subsidies" or "trade policy" to most people and watch eyes glaze over. But those issues go to the very heart of what is keeping the underdeveloped world underdeveloped. The 50 percent increase in foreign aid that the Bush administration has admirably promised for the next few years pales in comparison with what reduced farm subsidies would mean to help fight world poverty. In the case of the earth's poorest -- some three billion people living on less than $2 a day apiece -- we in the West blithely toss them the equivalent of a few fish but consistently fail to let them fish for themselves. 
 A healthy, export-oriented farm sector, based on the cheap land and labor that many poor countries have in abundance, ought to be the first step on the ladder of economic development. But across Africa, South Asia and Latin America, that path out of poverty has been perversely blocked by the subsidies the United States, Europe, Japan and other rich countries pay their most affluent farmers and agricultural businesses. The developed world pays out more than $300 billion a year in farm subsidies, seven times what it gives in development aid.
These production incentives create oversupplies of crops like sugar and cotton, which are then dumped on world markets, squeezing tropical producers. Subsidies also distort world market prices for vegetables, cut flowers and cereal grains, many of which could otherwise be marketed competitively by third world countries.
The United States is not the worst offender -- Europe is. But America runs a close and shameful second. Western leaders regularly and rightly tout the virtues of free trade to the underdeveloped world and energetically press for the dismantling of tariffs on manufactured goods and the removal of barriers to free investment. But in the one area where most developed countries enjoy the advantages of cheaper production costs, the West is unwilling to practice free trade itself. 
Earlier this year, Washington enacted a new farm bill that raised agricultural subsidies by up to $180 billion over the next decade. In October, French and German leaders cut a deal extending and increasing the size of Europe's Common Agricultural Policy, which already costs more than $40 billion per year.
Significant proposals for reform are in the air. Robert Zoellick, the Bush administration's trade representative, has called for coordinated reductions of American and European subsidy payments, the equivalent of mutual arms reduction. Franz Fischler, the European Union's agricultural commissioner, has proposed a shift away from payments based on maximum output and toward farm assistance based on environmental preservation goals. These proposals will not go anywhere, however, without stronger support than they have attracted so far from political leaders and the public. 
Continuing on the present perverse course will feed social instability and environmental devastation throughout the developing world. It will mean increased illegal migration to fill agricultural and other jobs in richer countries, instead of increased jobs and incomes in the third world. Any serious effort to combat extreme poverty, promote third world development and share the benefits of globalization more fairly must begin with a radical assault on agricultural subsidies. It must begin now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); SPORT FISHING (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



34 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
As Washington Giveth, The States Taketh Away

BYLINE:  By DANIEL GROSS; Daniel Gross writes about business for the online magazine Slate.

 BODY:
DURING the economic slowdown, the White House and Congress have acted like true Keynesians, raising spending on everything from the military to farm subsidies, while reducing tax rates and sending out rebates. When Congress returns in January, debate will surely continue over the best way to stimulate the economy. The menu includes phasing in the scheduled income tax cut earlier, enacting payroll tax holidays and eliminating taxes on corporate dividends. 
 But these new booster shots may not be as effective as hoped for a simple reason: what the federal government gives to the economy, state and local governments more than take away. 
 In its effort to stimulate the economy, the federal government has turned a $127 billion surplus in 2001 into a $157 billion deficit in 2002. But virtually all states are forbidden by law from running deficits. So when times get tough, the governors must cut spending, mostly in the form of layoffs, and raise taxes. The net effect is that of a rolling, slow-motion, anti-stimulus package. "There is this irony that when states do what they're required to do, they tend to cause the economy to get worse," said Nicholas Jenny, a senior policy analyst at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany. 
Since the economy began to slow last year, cities and states have faced sharply reduced revenue and increased spending, much of it because of federally mandated costs for programs like Medicaid. (Medicaid accounts for about 20 percent of the average state budget, and Washington picks up about 55 percent of the program's total cost.) 
During the 2002 fiscal year (which for all but four states ended last June), the states had to close a collective $37 billion deficit. They did so largely by slashing $12.6 billion in spending, raising taxes by about $8.3 billion and dipping into reserve funds, which had ballooned in the 1990's.
As they began earlier this year to plan for fiscal 2003, state officials realized that the gap between anticipated revenue and anticipated spending was $49.1 billion. To close the gap, the states raised taxes by $9.1 billion, enacted $2 billion in other so-called revenue enhancements (like tuition increases for public colleges), reduced spending and dipped into reserve funds -- again. 
No sooner did budgets for the 2003 fiscal year go into effect than they began to spring leaks. So far this year, 33 states have reported worse-than-expected revenues. As a result, they will have to come up with an additional $17.5 billion in spending cuts before June 2003 to remain in balance. 
That $17.5 billion is about the amount of stimulus that the federal government would realize if it moved up the income tax reductions scheduled for 2004 to 2003. 
State governments can deal with their gaps by raising taxes or cutting jobs, or both. In Connecticut, Gov. John Rowland, a Republican, plans to lay off 3,000 state workers. These job cuts are popular with many fiscal conservatives, who argue that government almost always becomes too bloated in boom times. But at a time of rising unemployment and inevitable tax increases, they act as a drag on a slowing economy.
As for tax increases, the states have thus far focused on tobacco. In 2002, 19 states increased cigarette taxes, generating $2.9 billion in new funds. But the cloud of new taxes is quickly wafting into the nonsmoking areas of the economy.
For 2003, 24 states adopted broader tax and fee increases. Tennessee increased corporate taxes, Indiana raised its sales tax, and Massachusetts, by altering exemptions for the state's personal income tax, effectively raised taxes by $1.035 billion. 
AS states continue to tap into their rainy-day reserves -- which fell 70 percent from the 2000 fiscal year to the 2003 fiscal year -- mayors and governors will be faced with the tough choices confronted by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, who recently cut a deal with the City Council for an 18 percent increase in property taxes. 
"Anecdotally, the picture for fiscal 2004 looks worse than the picture for this fiscal year," said Corina Eckl, an analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures. "They're going to be looking at staggering budget gaps in 2004." 
Some experts say the federal government could help stimulate the economy by ensuring that the state capitals don't play Scrooge to the federal Santa. "One of the things the federal government should be doing is pushing money down to the states so they don't have to make such big cuts," said David Wysse, chief economist at Standard & Poor's.
But in the past session, Congress passed new election and education mandates and then failed to finance the new polling equipment and the rigorous educational testing.
Of course, the federal government isn't all to blame. In recent years, New York and other states cut taxes and increased spending in the face of declining revenues. In these cases, federal help could amount to an unwarranted bailout. But the paradox is that now, when everyone could benefit from a little fiscal irresponsibility on the states' part, they are not in a position to help.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Neubecker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); MEDICAID (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); TUITION FEES (69%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



35 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Millions for Defense, Barely a Penny for Djibouti

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: DJIBOUTI 

 BODY:
AS the United States builds up its combat power in the Horn of Africa, tiny Djibouti has emerged as the staging area for Washington's campaign against Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups in the region. 
 But Djibouti is also a telling example of a problem that has bedeviled the Bush administration's war on terror: the struggle to harmonize its own military goals with the needs of the countries in which it is operating. Put simply, the administration seems to be better at taking the fight to its enemies than helping its friends. 
 While civilian aid has traditionally been a way to gain sympathy for the American presence in foreign lands, this is one place where the United States is not making much of a parallel effort. But experts say this is an important gap because East Africa is an area where Al Qaeda and other terrorists have made inroads, especially in nearby Somalia and Kenya. 
"These kinds of operations should be like a three-legged stool," said Joseph P. Hoar, a retired general and the former head of the United States Central Command, which oversees American forces in the Middle East. "There should be a political piece, a military piece and a development piece. You need to address development to offset some of the negatives when you bring a modern force into a third-world country that is just getting by day by day."
But such symmetry seems to be lacking in Djibouti, a small nation of 600,000 to 700,000. Djibouti is close to Yemen, a Qaeda haven. It is just north of Somalia, where groups sympathetic to Al Qaeda have been reported, and not far from Kenya, where terrorists carried out a suicide bombing at a hotel frequented by Israeli tourists last week, while trying simultaneously to shoot down an Israeli airliner. Djibouti also sits astride vital sea lanes that are being used to ship American materiel to the Persian Gulf. 
So it is not surprising that the Pentagon would want to deploy some 800 Special Operations forces and other troops here to strike at terrorist cells in Yemen and East Africa. It is also clear why the C.I.A. has set up shop here. The C.I.A. recently used Djibouti to mount an attack on a Qaeda operative in Yemen with a Predator drone equipped with Hellfire missiles. 
What may seem surprising is that Washington allocated a mere $8.7 million in assistance for 2002 for its new ally in the war on terror. Much of the assistance is intended to upgrade the airport, now a hub for military operations. Only a small fraction is intended to meet the nation's pressing humanitarian and development needs. Djibouti, in fact, is such a low priority for assistance that the Agency for International Development, the foreign aid arm of the American government, closed its office here in the mid-1990's.
Djibouti is hardly the only case in which Washington has taken what critics say is a narrow view of how to pursue its antiterrorism campaign. In Afghanistan, for example, the United States used its warplanes and teams of Special Operations forces to topple the Taliban. But once the Taliban were driven from power, Washington did not expand and deploy the international peacekeepers in cities throughout the country, but kept them close to Kabul. 
In the case of Djibouti, the country is so small that advocates of a greater civilian aid effort say Washington might accomplish much here with very little. "It is a small country with huge problems," said Jorge Mejia, the head of the Unicef office in Djibouti.
Djibouti does not have oil or natural resources it can exploit. Only about 10 percent of its land is arable. It does not produce its own food, but imports it from Europe and neighboring Ethiopia.
The infant mortality rate is 114 per 1,000. That is substantially higher than in Rwanda, where the rate is 90. Of the children who survive, almost a quarter of those under 5 are malnourished.
Only 40 percent of young boys attend elementary school, and only 4 percent complete high school. (The percentage of girls who attend school is lower.) 
The World Food Program, a United Nations operation, has been providing meals in schools to combat malnutrition and encourage families to send their children to school. Fatma Samoura, the director of the World Food Program, said it costs less than 30 cents to feed a child for a day. "So it is nothing," she said, "but that nothing needs support If we receive like $900,000 for a year we will be able to feed 12,000 during nine months with three full balanced meals a day."
The American military is not the only Western force in Djibouti. Djibouti is France's largest foreign base, and the French presence helps the economy. But Djibouti's tax revenue has suffered as France has been deploying more young soldiers here, rather than officials likely to bring families. 
As in other distant outposts, the American military is intent on providing "force protection," which in Djibouti has meant building barricades and other protections to keep the troops safe. Initiating development projects has been assigned no role in keeping troops safer. And Djibouti is not scheduled to receive any development assistance in 2003 or 2004, an A.I.D. official said, adding that no decision has been made on emergency food or humanitarian aid.
An A.I.D. official said resources are so limited that the agency cannot be everywhere. The amount of development and food aid the agency has budgeted for all of Africa in 2002 is only $1.1 billion. In the past, moreover, vast sums spent on government-run projects in places like Egypt have seemingly done little to stem a tide of anti-Americanism.
Still, some former officials here believe that if the United States helps Djibouti's people, it will sow good will and thus make it easier for American troops to operate. 
Martin L. Cheshes, a retired diplomat who was the American ambassador to Djibouti from 1993 to 1996, recalled that in his day, funds were so limited that he tried to take advantage of visiting American forces to paint schools or give vaccinations. Carrying on that tradition, the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit recently built furniture for a school after it conducted a military exercise.
Ismael Omar Guelleh, Djibouti's president, has not demanded a quid pro quo for hosting the American military. But he indicated in an interview that he is hoping for a payoff for his country in terms of development assistance. "It has not yet been decided," he said. "But don't they say hope allows us to live?"
Mr. Mejia of Unicef said that in his agency, "we follow what people say on the street. They say they are seeing so many military people coming from different countries. That's fine. Djibouti is very active in the fight against terrorism. But people say, 'What about us?' " 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A mosque rising in central Djibouti.; Travel in Djibouti is primitive, as on this cattle car bound for the capital. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Map of Africa highlighting Djibouti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); AIRLINES (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); CLOSINGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); EASTERN AFRICA (94%); DJIBOUTI (94%); AFRICA (94%); YEMEN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); KENYA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



36 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Bringing Logic To Bear on Liberal Dogma

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN; Michael M. Weinstein is director of programs at the Robin Hood Foundation and a former economics columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
THE most influential political philosopher of his generation died last week. But Prof. John Rawls of Harvard, who was 82, was decidedly not a man of the current era. At least not in the United States. In Britain and Canada, where the nature of liberalism still fascinates, newspapers last week ran endless analyses of his legacy. 
 Starting in the 1950's, Mr. Rawls set down principles for the postwar welfare state, providing intellectual spine to liberals seeking tough-minded defense of their instinct to take from the rich and give to the poor. Professor Rawls's goal was to prove that the case for redistribution of wealth flowed from rational discourse, not sloppy moralizing or ideological froth. 
 As President Bill Clinton said in awarding him a 1999 National Medal of Arts, "Almost single-handedly John Rawls revived the disciplines of political and ethical philosophy with his argument that a society in which the most fortunate help the least fortunate is not only a moral society but a logical one."
Yet many of the scholars, including economists, who embraced Professor Rawls's vision of a just society found flaws in the analysis. His writing won their hearts if not their heads. 
Professor Rawls offered two principles for a just society, as outlined in his 1971 book, "A Theory of Justice." First, each person should enjoy equally a full array of basic liberties. Second, public policy should raise as high as possible the social and economic well-being of society's worst-off individuals.
This second principle rules out mindless egalitarianism -- policies that, in the name of the poor, drive down living standards across the board. Rawlsian principles could, for example, embrace a conservative policy, say a cut in taxes on capital gains income, if it could be shown that the cut would add some amount to the incomes of the poor. Professor Rawls sought to show that the principle flowed from rational deduction rather than personal taste. To do that, he asked what social contract would emerge by consensus from a group of people not already blinded by accidents of birth and other arbitrary advantages and disadvantages. 
So he imagined people gathered behind "a veil of ignorance," unaware of whether they were rich or poor, talented or inept. What kind of society would they build? He argued that the rule everyone could agree on would be to maximize the well-being of the worst-off person -- partly out of fear that anyone could wind up at the bottom. But critics pointed out that rational people might not behave that way: rather than avert risk, people might instead gamble by calling for society to maximize the income of the richest. Gambling may seem unattractive, but it is not irrational. 
Despite the critics, Professor Rawls's ideas have flowered. Thousands of books and articles have injected his brand of liberalism into popular discourse. He won, then, by losing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rawls, who tried to inject reason into the welfare state. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ETHICS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



37 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: Crime On the Mind 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 One source of the increased worry about crime is the realization that a deteriorating economy will foster more crime as more people are pushed into poverty. 
 While New Yorkers were reassured about lowered crime rates during the Giuliani administration, crime rates dropped across the country. Perhaps it was the improved economic situation during those years that was most responsible.

MURRAY J. FRIEDMAN
Upper East Side

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); TRENDS (85%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (84%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, MURRAY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



38 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words

HEADLINE: QUOTATION OF THE DAY 

 BODY:
 "What you have is one of the hardest hit major metropolitan areas in the country. The irony is that two years ago, we had the lowest unemployment rate in the country among the 15 largest metro areas."

DR. BERNARD L. WEINSTEIN, an economic researcher, on the Dallas-Fort Worth area. 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%) QUOTATION OF THE DAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (65%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



39 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Could Opt for a Momentous Term 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court faces choices in the next few weeks that could convert the current term from solidly interesting to potentially momentous.
 Cases that have been making their way through the appellate pipeline, some with great visibility and others with little notice, have arrived at the court's door. The justices will soon announce whether they will hear the following cases: 
 *The widely publicized challenge to the University of Michigan's use of affirmative action to increase minority enrollment at its law school. If the justices agree to hear the appeal by a conservative policy group on behalf of a disappointed white applicant, the case will be the court's first in 25 years to consider the extent to which public universities are permitted to take race into account in admissions. 
*A gay rights case from Texas that has received little attention but is potentially the most important such case since the 1980's. Two gay men are invoking the constitutional guarantee of equal protection to challenge a Texas law that criminalizes conduct between same-sex couples that is not a crime when engaged in by people of opposite sexes.
*A major free speech case on the right of a company to engage in public debate with the full First Amendment protection its critics enjoy. Much of corporate America has been galvanized by a California Supreme Court ruling last spring that Nike could be sued for fraudulent business practices for misstatements it made in response to critics of its third world employment practices. If the justices take Nike's appeal, the result will be at least to clarify and perhaps to limit the commercial speech doctrine, once welcomed by business as a shield but increasingly seen as a liability.
*Another important First Amendment case that asks the court to examine the boundary between provocative but legitimate advocacy and unprotected threats and intimidation. The case is an appeal by sponsors of an anti-abortion Web site and advertising campaign that featured "guilty" and "wanted" posters identifying doctors who perform abortions. The doctors sued under a provision of the federal law that protects access to abortion clinics and won a $120 million verdict, which was upheld on appeal.
Any of these cases that the court agrees to hear will be argued in the spring and decided by the end of the term in early summer. As the justices are well aware, they build more than their own docket when they add a case with far-reaching social and political implications. Inevitably, they help shape the country's agenda as well. A year ago, for example, the issue of school choice moved into the public spotlight because the court agreed to review Cleveland's voucher program, which made public money available for religious school tuition.
Affirmative action has never been out of the spotlight, although by giving a qualified endorsement to the value of campus diversity in its splintered Bakke decision in 1978, the Supreme Court perhaps bought nearly two decades of relative peace on the subject. That period ended in the mid-1990's, when federal appeals courts began extrapolating from the justices' restrictive view of affirmative action in other contexts to declare that the Bakke case was no longer a binding precedent.
The Supreme Court, itself badly split, remained silent throughout this period. The case now before the court exemplifies how messy the legal landscape has become. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati heard arguments a year ago in two affirmative action cases involving the University of Michigan, one on law school admissions and the other on undergraduate admissions.
The Sixth Circuit ruling last May addressed only the law school case, upholding the program in a 5-to-4 decision in which a dissent questioned the majority's integrity. The undergraduate case remains in limbo. But the Center for Individual Rights, which brought the cases, has appealed them. The appeal in the law school case, Grutter v. Bollinger, No. 02-241, asks the court to review the Sixth Circuit's conclusion that diversity remains a valid, compelling goal that justifies consideration of race in admissions.
The undergraduate case, Gratz v. Bollinger, No. 02-516, asks the Supreme Court to bypass the Sixth Circuit and directly review the Federal District Court ruling that upheld the program in December 2000. The court rarely grants such requests. It is unclear whether the procedural messiness will deter the court from taking up either case, or whether the justices will decide they can no longer remain silent on such an important subject.
It has been 16 years since the court in Bowers v. Hardwick dismissed as "at best, facetious" the contention that the right to privacy extended to the choice by consenting gay adults to engage in sex within the privacy of their home. While asking the court to overrule that decision, the new case, Lawrence v. Texas, No. 02-102, also offers a different route, through equal protection.
Texas is one of a few states with criminal sodomy laws that apply explicitly only to same-sex behavior. The challenge brought by the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund on behalf of John G. Lawrence and Tyron Garner thus raises a question of sexual discrimination as well as sexual orientation discrimination. Had either partner been female, the state would have had no case. "Lawrence and Garner are now convicted criminals because of who they are, not because of what they were doing in Lawrence's home when the police intruded," their appeal asserts. The Texas Court of Appeals upheld their convictions and $200 fines.
While the Supreme Court is more conservative now than it was in 1986, some analysts of gay rights say that changes in the social and legal climate could mean the court will revisit the issue. In the 1960's, every state had a criminal sodomy law. By the time of Bowers v. Hardwick, only half the states did, and now only a fourth do. In a 1996 decision, Romer v. Evans, the court voted 6 to 3 to overturn a Colorado amendment that barred local governments from enacting ordinances to protect gays.
The corporate speech case, Nike Inc. v. Kasky, No. 02-575, reaches the court at a time of ferment over the role of the First Amendment in commercial speech. Some justices have said it is time to give commercial speech full First Amendment protection. The case poses that issue obliquely while directly confronting the question of how to define commercial speech when companies use means beyond conventional advertising to convey their messages.
The court's precedents give less protection to speech that proposes a commercial transaction, like advertising. The California court extended the definition of such commercial speech to include corporate discourse that had the potential to influence consumers' economic behavior. That broader definition threatens to impinge on core political speech, Nike contends.
The lawsuit over the anti-abortion Web site known as the Nuremberg Files, which lists doctors who perform abortions and those wounded or killed, also raises the question of defining political speech -- not to distinguish it from commercial speech but from a raw threat, which has no constitutional protection. The case is American Coalition of Life Activists v. Planned Parenthood, No. 02-563.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyron Garner, left, and John G. Lawrence, with their lawyer Mitchell Katine, right, in 1998, are challenging Texas's criminal sodomy law. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); APPEALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); ABORTION (88%); SCHOOL CHOICE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); EQUAL PROTECTION (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LAWYERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); BUSINESS TORTS (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (62%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (54%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (54%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (54%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



40 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Amber Miners Find Risk, Not Riches 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: SIMOJOVEL, Mexico 

 BODY:
Deep in the earth, surrounded by the pale light of a single candle, Juan Gutierrez Guzman is laboring with a sledgehammer and a spike, looking for the ancient sparkle of amber.
 Buried in darkness, bathed in sweat and dust, he searches through the rubble for a tiny nugget that might bring him a dollar or two. 
 "Nothing here," he said as he gasped for breath. "Rough work." 
Few people on earth, or under it, work harder for less than the miners of Simojovel, a town in northern Chiapas blessed -- or cursed -- with one of the world's few known mother lodes of amber.
Other important deposits are found on the Baltic Sea and in the Dominican Republic, but by reputation Simojovel's amber is the best. Polished amber usually has the hue of honey, but Simojovel's miners occasionally unearth rare pieces the color of rubies or jade.
The Spanish conquerors were dazzled by the amber ornaments worn by the people of Chiapas when they arrived nearly 500 years ago, and they commissioned rosaries and crucifixes that have not lost their glow today. Mystical and medicinal properties have been attributed to amber, which is the petrified resin of trees from primeval forests felled by natural disasters 40 million years ago.
But no such magic has transformed the lives of the miners of Simojovel, who work under conditions essentially unchanged from the 19th century.
The economics of amber are brutal. The men hack at the earth down in hand-hewn hundred-foot tunnels. The women break up wheelbarrows full of their gleanings. The children haul away the slag. A miner makes a salary of no more than $2 or $3 a day, the women and children make even less.
The difference between suffering and sustenance lies in finding amber. A week's work might produce a quarter-ounce -- for which a miner will be paid as little as $2.50 on top of his regular earnings. 
A pendant or earrings made from that much amber may sell for $100 or more in the tourist shops of the nearest city, San Cristobal de las Casas, which lies a hard morning's drive away. The price can double if a piece reaches New York City or Los Angeles. But the miners never see the money from the markup.
Fifteen years ago, the miners here tried to form a collective, pooling their money and labor. They accumulated a cache of nearly 900 pounds of amber, and planned to set up their own store. But bandits stole the whole load, and the cooperative collapsed in bitterness.
The question of who owns the earth that the miners work is vexing. Some land is held in common, some is privately owned and land rights often set off fierce fights. Some of the miners are freelancers, some have to rent their mines from land owners. The least fortunate live down in the mouths of the mines. 
It is not a long life. There are no mine-workers' unions here, no safety standards, no rules or regulations, no hard hats or flashlights. There is only work.
Genaro Bonifaz Diaz, 40, has been down in the mines since he was a child. He has seen friends die quickly in tunnels crushed by mudslides, and die slowly as their lungs collapsed from the fine dust that flies with every hammer blow. "We suffer, but we have to support our families," he said from underground.
"Thank God, I haven't been trapped," he said. "But when it's raining, the roof can cave in, and two of my buddies have died" in recent months. "Many of us have gotten sick in the lungs. These candles, the smoke is terrible for you. But we don't have anything else." 
As he pounded and hacked at the black wall before him, a boy of 14, Jose Florentine Hernandez Sanchez, stood watching, picking up the technique. Jose has worked in the mines off and on since he was 10 to pay for clothes and school supplies. 
"It scared me, the first time I entered," he said, "because I thought something bad might happen." 
When something bad happens, as it often does, there is little recourse save taking up a collection for the family of the dead. Amber is not a precious mineral like gold or silver, so the miners do not fall under the auspices of federal mining laws or the governance of miners' unions. Their only real support comes from the artisans of Simojovel, who try to guarantee them a market when foreign buyers do not appear.
"Our friends the artisans have fought with the government to get us a store," Mr. Bonifaz Diaz said, "but they've never been successful."
The state government also buys amber, says one of Simojovel's artisans, Humberto Morales, but at a rock-bottom price -- about 25 cents a gram, or $7 an ounce, for finished pieces -- to sell at state-sponsored shops in the capital of Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
"There's no market for us to sell our goods," he said, except to foreign buyers, who will pay at least 30 cents a gram. A big nugget will bring more. The foreigners, he said, "buy the big pieces, and they pay well."
Philippe Chatillon, a handsome and prosperous-looking Frenchman, is among the most respected amber buyers in San Cristobal, and a decade ago he became one of the first to make a good living selling it in Chiapas. His shop, Tierra de Ambar, glitters under baby spotlights highlighting the elegant jewelry. New Age music bubbles and floats in the air.
"There were many hippies selling it in the church plaza, but in terms of formally selling it, we were the first," he said. "It's a good business. Very noble."
Mining the amber, he acknowledged, is "quite a difficult job."
"Those miners work hard and earn little," he said. Danger, he added, flows out of the mines and onto the road from Simojovel. Mr. Chatillon will not set foot in the town.
"The truth is, I don't even go there," he said. "Even on the highway, carrying money or goods is dangerous. At times, my people have been assaulted. One guy came back missing an ear. Thieves had macheted him."
But there is money in it, and Mr. Chatillon said that the price would rise as the amber left underground slowly disappeared. His biggest fear, he said, is that some corporation will buy its way into Chiapas, come to Simojovel with heavy machinery, and rip all the riches from the earth.
"There's a lot of corruption, you know," he said. "On all levels. And money often wins. It's sad."
On this point, the dealer and the miner agree. 
"What can we do?" asked Mr. Bonifaz Diaz. "This is our work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers browse in Tierra de Ambar, a jewelry store in San Cristobal de las Casas. While a pendant made from a quarter-ounce of amber may sell for $100 in tourist shops, a miner will earn only a few dollars.; Genaro Bonifaz Diaz, 40, has worked in northern Chiapas, Mexico, as an amber miner since he was a child and has lost several friends to the mines. "We suffer, but we have to support our families," he said. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario/Corbis Saba, for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Simojovel: Simojovel's amber deposits are among the world's best.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



41 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE MONEY TRAIL; 
Saudi Arabia Is Called Slow in Helping Stem the Flow of Cash to Militants

BYLINE:  By JEFF GERTH and JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
While both countries say that progress has been made, American officials are finding it hard to stop the longtime flow of money from wealthy Saudis and Saudi-financed charities to people and groups deemed by the United States to be supporting terrorist attacks around the world.
 Saudi officials have repeatedly pledged to tighten regulations on some 300 charities that dole out as much as $4 billion a year, but a senior Bush administration official said Saudi cooperation in stopping the money flow had been "difficult and slow" since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 "The Saudi banking system is not totally transparent, and Riyadh has not maintained strict oversight" on nongovernmental organizations abroad, Carl W. Ford Jr., the assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research, said in recently released written responses to questions from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Congressional leaders criticized the Bush administration for not being more aggressive in pressing the Saudi government, particularly since 15 of the 19 hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks were Saudi citizens.
The longstanding tensions between the two countries over the financing issue erupted this week after reports that about $2,000 from the wife of Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States may have inadvertently aided two of the Sept. 11 hijackers. Administration officials responded with praise for Saudi efforts and defended the ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, and his wife, Princess Haifa al-Faisal. 
Hassan Yassin, a former Saudi information officer in Washington, said in a telephone interview from London that the Saudis were moving at their own pace to curb terrorism. Toward that end, he said, Crown Prince Abdullah, the kingdom's de facto ruler, recently sought to limit overseas donations by emphasizing that Saudis should help the poor in their own country.
The issue is not new. Two decades ago, the State Department tried unsuccessfully to pressure Saudi Arabia to stop underwriting militant Islamic groups in Algeria. Saudi officials said that the financial support did not constitute official policy, but also insisted that "they couldn't tell Saudis where to put their money," Edward S. Walker Jr., a former top State Department official involved in the talks, said in an interview.
Saudi officials say the country's leaders are committed to fighting terrorism, and the administration credits the Saudis with backing the American campaign against it. They said that the government had already blocked $70 million at the request of the United States and that banking regulators were auditing the network of Islamic charities that extend the Saudis' reach worldwide through donations that Saudi officials estimated at $200 million to $300 million a year.
A Saudi official said the government had taken many steps to tighten controls, including forbidding banks from transferring cash to individuals without an audit trail. The official said the government had also set up a financial intelligence unit to share information about bank transactions, and bank executives now exchange information about financial transactions. He said that while Saudi law now required charities to "coordinate" donations overseas with the Foreign Ministry, the kingdom was slowly moving toward banning such aid except through official government channels.
Outside experts have been more critical of the Saudis. A report sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations last month said Saudi Arabia was the largest source of financing for Al Qaeda, and blamed both the American and Saudi governments for not being tough enough.
Matthew Levitt, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former terrorism analyst for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said Saudi officials and state-paid religious leaders sat on the boards of charities the American government suspected of supporting terrorism.
"More than a year into the war against terrorism, Saudi officials continue to actively support organizations that finance international terrorism," he said in an interview.
The latest dispute comes at a critical moment in American-Saudi relations. The Bush administration is working to obtain permission to use Saudi air bases if there is a war against Iraq, and to make sure the Saudis step up oil production to fill a possible worldwide shortage in the event of war.
Saudi Arabia's role as a major oil supplier to the West and an ally has kept Washington from pressing too hard for tough action against terrorism, said current and former government officials. and outside experts.
"It has been a longstanding policy of the United States government over several decades that if the kingdom helps us with oil and helps us with the Middle East we won't ask them about their internal issues," said William F. Wechsler, the head of an interagency group in the Clinton administration that sought to disrupt Al Qaeda's finances and one of the authors of the recent Council on Foreign Relations report.
But Saudi Arabia's internal issues have a way of leaking into the rest of the world. Giving a small percentage of your wealth to charitable or humanitarian causes is a tenet of Islam, called zakat. The kingdom's oil wealth has made it a significant source of aid for poorer Muslim nations and communities through a network of Saudi-based charitable organizations.
In the 1980's, the kingdom and individual Saudis, with American blessing, were the most important source of financing for the mujahedeen fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan. The money helped to serve as the foundation on which Osama bin Laden, a Saudi, built Al Qaeda.
The Persian Gulf war in 1991 prompted Saudi Arabia to re-examine the activities of its wealthy philanthropists. Saudis close to the royal family said King Fahd urged the kingdom's richest families to be more careful in how their charitable donations were used. A council was set up to supervise requests for money, and collecting money without official permission was banned.
Still, some individual Saudis and charities continued to finance extremist Islamic groups, wittingly or unwittingly, and Islamic charities figured in some prominent attacks. In one example, federal prosecutors said a charity was used to provide cover for plotting the bombings of the American embassies in East Africa in August 1998.
The Clinton administration discussed the issue with Saudi officials periodically. In July 1999, midlevel officials traveled to the kingdom after Vice President Al Gore raised the matter with Crown Prince Abdullah, American officials said.
But the effort to persuade the Saudis to crack down on the charities never became a high-level issue for the Clinton administration and soon faltered, said Stuart E. Eizenstat, the deputy secretary of the Treasury at the time. Saudi Arabia, he said, was treated "with kid gloves."
Until Sept. 11, the Bush administration paid little attention to terrorist finances. But within a few weeks of the attacks, the administration blocked the assets of various charities and their supporters. Many were on a secret list of 31 suspect charities distributed to American antiterrorist specialists as far back as 1996.
In October 2001, the Treasury Department identified one Saudi charity on the 1996 list, the Muwafaq Foundation, as a Qaeda front. Officials said the group had transferred millions of dollars to Mr. bin Laden. The government froze the assets of Yasin Al Qadi, the Saudi businessman who headed the foundation. Mr. Qadi said he had never helped terrorists and went to court in London to contest the freeze.
Most of the foundation's $20 million endowment came from Sheik Khalid bin Mahfouz, a prominent Saudi businessmen and a former banker to the royal family, according to his spokesman, Cherif Sedky. Mr. Sedky said the money was intended solely for humanitarian purposes. Sheik Khalid has not been accused of any wrongdoing and his accounts have not been frozen. A lawsuit brought by some families of Sept. 11 victims, however, names him as a defendant along with dozens of other prominent Saudis, including members of the royal family.
Mr. Sedky said the charities mentioned in the lawsuit were not known in 1998 to be conduits for terrorism. "We continue to have no reason to believe that any of the funds Sheik Khalid provided were used other than for the charitable purposes intended," he said.
The lawsuit has strained American-Saudi relations, and Bush administration officials said they might move in a federal court to have the suit dismissed or delayed.
Last March, the administration and the Saudis together moved to shut down two overseas branches of Al Haramain, a Saudi charity suspected of funneling money to extremists under cover of supporting Islamic schools and orphanages.
The action closed branches in Bosnia and Somalia, but questions remain about whether its activities actually stopped. Al Qaeda's top representative in Southeast Asia told the Central Intelligence Agency last summer that the network's operations there were financed through Al Haramain, according to a transcript of his questioning. Around the same time, Arab news accounts suggested that the charity was active again in Bosnia.
Faced with rising criticism, the Saudi Embassy in Washington put out a statement last August saying that new regulations had been established to sever links between charitable groups and extremist organizations. "All charitable groups have been audited to assure there are no links to suspected groups," the statement said.
The Bush administration has not described publicly how far the Saudis have gone in carrying out the measures.
When a Congressional committee asked Kenneth Dam, the deputy secretary of the Treasury, whether the Saudis had taken the steps they had promised, he replied: "That's a sensitive question, and my answer would be sensitive. All I can say is that we are pleased with Saudi cooperation."
Evidence linking Saudi money to Al Qaeda has continued to mount. Last month, federal prosecutors in Chicago charged the head of Benevolence International Foundation, an Islamic charity with financial roots in Saudi Arabia, with running a criminal enterprise that supported Al Qaeda.
Investigators in Europe have also found ties between Al Qaeda and Saudi donors. The Spanish authorities, for example, say a Syrian accused of financing a Qaeda cell in Europe was backed by a Saudi trading company that solicited money from Saudis.
Last month, an American delegation went to Riyadh to press for increased scrutiny of charities and financial networks. It was headed by Alan Larson, the under secretary of state for economic affairs.
But in an illustration of the persistent quandary facing Washington, American and Saudi oil executives said Mr. Larson had another item on his agenda. He wanted to ensure, they said, that Saudi Arabia would pump millions of barrels of extra oil into the world market should there be a shortfall caused by an American-led attack on Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); AUDITS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RELIGION (62%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (50%) TERRORISM; FINANCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; GERTH, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ALGERIA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



42 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2112 words

HEADLINE: In Stormy Time, S.E.C. Is Facing Deeper Trouble 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission, still reeling from the recent resignation of its chairman, Harvey L. Pitt, and other top officials, is plagued by problems that go deeper than its leadership difficulties and have undermined its ability to police companies and markets, government officials and corporate law experts say.
 Created in the depths of the Depression, the commission has had a long history of effectiveness that has earned it a reputation as one of the brightest stars in the constellation of federal regulatory agencies. But today, on the anniversary of the collapse of Enron -- which began a wave of stunning corporate failures that exposed severe regulatory shortcomings -- the commission is struggling to maintain its role as protector of investors against abuses in the marketplace. 
 Although the agency has managed to file a record number of cases this year and has adopted a series of tough rules, officials say the commission's divisions have lost ground in their efforts to keep up with the growth of business and the expansion of stock ownership to a new investor class. 
Two of the most important units of the 3,100-person commission, its enforcement division and its office of compliance inspections, are understaffed by hundreds of officials, experts say, sharply limiting their effectiveness. Its corporate finance department cannot keep up with the deluge of company filings. Its market regulation division has for years been unable to persuade the agency's five commissioners to adopt rules of enormous consequence to the way the markets set stock prices.
And a new accounting board that is supposed to fall into place early next year is beset by budget and staffing difficulties that threaten to undermine its effectiveness.
Many of the problems facing the agency, experts say, are traceable to powerful corporate interests on Wall Street and in the accounting profession that continue, both directly and through the help of well-placed allies in Congress, to exert enormous influence on the rule-making process.
As a result, the commission's budget has remained relatively small, less than half a billion dollars, and inadequate to the task. A new law called for a spending increase of 77 percent. But officials now fear that any increase will fall far short of its needs because the agency has no leader to fight for its interests and faces a White House that has wavered over its commitment to raise the S.E.C.'s budget and a Republican Congress that has other priorities.
"We're in a very bad situation," said Charles A. Bowsher, a former comptroller general of the United States. "It is probably one of the weakest oversight positions at one of the worst possible times."
Mr. Bowsher said there were ominous parallels to the problems facing the commission and the difficulties that confronted regulators during the onset of the savings and loan collapses of more than a decade ago, when he led the General Accounting Office.
As was the case then, he said, the regulators are sharply underfinanced, face ferocious corporate lobbying interests with friends in Congress who want to weaken the rules, and are often unable to anticipate or prevent major infractions that can wind up costing investors huge sums of money.
Mr. Pitt, who has suggested he will remain chairman until the administration finds a replacement, declined requests to discuss his 15-month tenure at the head of the commission. In public appearances, he and senior administration officials portray an agency that has responded strongly to the corporate debacles of the last year by adopting a series of tough regulations and bringing more enforcement cases -- against executives of companies ranging from Enron to WorldCom and Sunbeam.
"I'm enormously proud of our accomplishments, our regulatory reforms and our enforcement program," Mr. Pitt said in a recent speech at Duke University. "They have been aggressive, creative, well focused and effective."
But commission officials and securities experts describe a host of problems that have grown over the last decade. They trace many of the agency's shortcomings to the tenure of Arthur Levitt, the chairman of the agency under President Clinton, who faced significant challenges in the deregulatory climate of that era.
Mr. Levitt succeeded in putting a variety of measures on behalf of investors into effect, securities experts say, but he has also concluded in a new memoir, "Take on the Street" (Pantheon, 2002), that he was forced to reach a variety of compromises -- such as on rules governing stock analyst conflicts of interest and auditor conflicts -- that he now regrets.
Some experts say there are parallels between the problems the agency developed during his tenure and the difficulties it faced in its early days during the Depression, when the commission created the regulatory framework to prosecute white-collar criminals, invigorate corporate oversight by directors, and help restore the faith of investors in the markets.
"The two periods of greatest political controversy in the history of the Securities and Exchange Commission were the initial years, when the statute to create the commission and its full mandate were adopted, and the last period since the 1994 elections, when Newt Gingrich's Contract With America attempted as part of broad deregulatory effort to roll back the registration and enforcement mechanisms of the commission," said Joel Seligman, a securities expert and historian of the commission. "We have seen a wild roller-coaster ride since 1994."
He and other experts say many of the problems have grown worse under Mr. Pitt, who they say only belatedly sought a budget increase that was far less ambitious than the one approved in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the law adopted in July to improve oversight of markets, corporate governance and the accounting profession.
Now, the agency is "at a low point" in its history, said Alan R. Bromberg, a professor at the Dedman School of Law at Southern Methodist University who has followed the commission for more than 45 years and written extensively on corporate law issues.
The agency's challenges today hark back to its earliest days. It was created during the nation's worst financial crisis. When Franklin D. Roosevelt was sworn in as President in March 1933, the economy was paralyzed, unemployment was rampant and the nation's banking system was on the verge of collapse. In the Senate, public hearings exposed a pattern of financial abuse by such distinguished banking institutions as J. P. Morgan, National City Bank and Chase National Bank that included insider trading, market manipulation, reckless speculation and special favors to influential friends.
Congress responded with a flurry of New Deal legislation, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which created the commission to keep watch over investment banks and the stock exchanges to ensure the efficiency and fairness of public markets.
As in the current climate, the agency was buffeted by a variety of powerful corporate interests. William O. Douglas, an early chairman, noted at the time of the passage of one major measure in the 1930's that it had become law only "after a bitter struggle on the Hill against as strong a lobby as ever moved into Washington, D.C."
But the commission grew in both size and stature and became a major force in Washington and Wall Street.
Now, Professor Bromberg said, "the commission has lost its leadership in a whole bunch of vital areas."
"It's partly because of Harvey Pitt, who came in promising to be friendlier to the accountants," he said. "It's partly because of this administration, which has been friendlier to big business. And it's partly because the agency has been starved for money and resources."
The weaknesses of the commission, he said, have encouraged state prosecutors around the nation to pursue their own investigations of Wall Street and public companies, a shift in the balance of power that some experts criticize for leading to inconsistent results and balkanized rules.
Both President Bush and Mr. Pitt have cited the agency's record number of enforcement cases over the last year as evidence of its continued vitality. They say the agency has performed remarkably well amid the wave of corporate failures and market turbulence, particularly in putting into effect scores of regulations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The new rules require companies to make faster and more detailed disclosures of financial information, impose more obligations on executives and lawyers and set higher standards for corporate boards.
Experts say that the 24 percent increase in enforcement actions over last year, while significant, is hardly surprising given the extent of corporate abuses that have come to light, the record number of earnings restatements by companies and the precipitous decline in the markets.
Officials and experts who closely follow the S.E.C. say that the enforcement staff lacks the resources to open important investigations and that the trial unit, which has about 75 professionals nationwide, is hard pressed to bring a significant number of cases to court. Corporate corruption cases involving accounting improprieties are particularly labor intensive. More than 20 lawyers and accountants, for instance, are working on the Enron case alone. A typical case involves just one or two professionals at the agency.
Making matters worse, many corporate defendants are becoming more reluctant to settle their cases because the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other new regulations substantially increased penalties for violations. 
The agency's corporation finance division, which for years never examined in detail the filings of thousands of companies, including Enron, remains unable to analyze the majority of the 15,000 filings by corporations each year. The division now focuses on the nation's largest companies.
But in some cases, according to officials, reviewers have just one day to examine as many as six corporate annual reports to see if they are problematic. The secretarial staff is so small that many senior analysts spend huge amounts of time simply photocopying documents. Officials also labor under an antiquated computer system that makes it difficult to perform the most rudimentary kinds of analysis of financial information.
"The headline here inside the agency is a lot of noise and little action," said Michael Clampitt, a lawyer and accountant who has worked in the S.E.C.'s corporation finance division for the last 12 years. "People are basically hoping that everything blows over and nothing bad happens. It has been a travesty."
The division of market regulation, meanwhile, is years behind schedule in getting approval from the commission on a set of rules of enormous importance to how prices are set on the stock exchanges. For the last three years, the division has been working on a proposal by the Nasdaq to transform it to a stock exchange from a market, but in the regulatory triage of the last year, the issue has been shunted aside.
The new accounting oversight board, which is supposed to set auditor standards and conduct regular investigations of accounting firms, has faced difficulties recruiting senior staff members. With the resignation of William H. Webster, it has no permanent chairman.
The accounting board faces enormous political pressure from lobbyists and their allies in Congress to delegate the board's new standard-setting authority to the profession itself, which had set the rules until the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation took it away.
At the top of the S.E.C. are five commissioners -- nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate -- who are given staggered five year terms. No more than three can be from the same political party. President Bush has appointed all of the current commissioners.
Earlier this year, Congress gave the commission a modest $30 million budget increase, to about $468 million, so that the agency could begin to hire an additional 100 professionals and enlarge its staff of about 3,100. In recent years, it has taken in fees of more than $2 billion a year, but Congress has rejected attempts to let the S.E.C. support itself directly because lawmakers are reluctant to give up their influence over the agency's agenda through its budget.
The commission has faced turmoil in the past. During Watergate, its chairman was forced to resign during a political scandal. But many say those problems pale in comparison to today's challenges.
"It's been a very disappointing year," Mr. Bromberg, the Southern Methodist law professor said, "for people who admire the commission and think it has an important role to play for investors."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "A Leaderless Agency Adrift"With the resignations of its chairman, chief accountant and the head of a new board to oversee the accounting industry, the Securities and Exchange Commission is an agency in turmoil. The problems extend to the agencys four main divisions, which officials say lack adequate staffing and resources to keep up. Paul S. AtkinsCOMMISSIONERRepublicanTerm expires 2003Securities lawyer and former partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Washington. Cynthia A. GlassmanCOMMISSIONERRepublicanTerm expires 2006Economist, formerly at the Federal Reserve, and principal at Ernst & Young. Harvey L. PittCHAIRMANRepublicanAnnounced resignation Nov. 5Corporate and accounting lawyer; began his career at the S.E.C. Roel C. CamposCOMMISSIONERDemocratTerm expires 2005Corporate lawyer and co-founder of El Dorado Communications in Houston. Harvey J. GoldschmidCOMMISSIONERDemocrat Term expires 2004Law professor and top aide to Arthur Levitt when he was S.E.C. chairman. MAIN DIVISIONS PUBLIC COMPANY ACCOUNTING OVERSIGHT BOARDCHAIRMAN -- Vacant; William H. Webster resigned on Nov. 12Newly created panel to oversee the accounting profession and set auditor standards. Its five members are appointed by the S.E.C., which also approves its budget. It is financed by the clients of the accounting industry. CORPORATION FINANCEDIRECTOR Alan L. BellerOversees corporate disclosure of important information to investors. Did not examine Enron's filings before its collapse, and officials say it is unable to review the majority of the 15,000 annual corporate filings. ENFORCEMENTDIRECTOR Stephen M. CutlerInvestigates possible violations of securities laws and recommends action when appropriate. Officials say it lacks the resources to fully investigate abuses and bring cases to trial. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENTDIRECTOR Paul F. RoyeOversees and regulates investment companies, like mutual funds, investment advisers and public utility holding companies. Administers the laws affecting the industry. MARKET REGULATIONDIRECTOR Annette L. NazarethEstablishes and maintains standards for the operation of the financial markets. Has been unable to get the commissions approval for rules on how prices are set on exchanges. (Source: Securities and Exchange Commission)(pg. 46) Chart: "Lacking the Resources"Staffing at the Securities and Exchange Commission has lagged behind the increases in its major activities over the last decade. The commissions budget has barely grown even as the fees it collects have swelled, and it filed a record number of enforcement cases in the last year. WORKLOAD AND STAFFINGGraph tracks the cumulative percent changes in workload* and staffing, from 1992 to 2000. Percent increase, 1991-2000Investment assets under managementWORKLOAD*: +264%STAFFING: +166 Market and corporate supervisionWORKLOAD*: +137%STAFFING: + 51 Review of investment company filingsWORKLOAD*: +108%STAFFING: + 9 Complaints and inquiriesWORKLOAD*: +100%STAFFING: + 16 Review of corporate filingsWORKLOAD*: + 60%STAFFING: + 29 *Filings, complaints, inquiries, investigations, examinations and inspections. Graph tracks the following, from 1991 to 2001:BUDGETFEES COLLECTEDENFORCEMENT (cases filed) Years shown are fiscal years ending Sept. 30.(Source: General Accounting Office; Securities and Exchange Commission)(pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); INSPECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (99%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



43 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Planners Vow To Cooperate In Rebuilding 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Stung by criticism that interagency fights have slowed the pace of the rebuilding in Lower Manhattan, officials overseeing the planning are taking a new tack: acknowledging their previous disagreements while also promising that the effort will soon pick up speed.
 In a speech to a municipal finance conference tomorrow, Louis R. Tomson, the president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, is expected to outline an aggressive schedule for completing a plan for the World Trade Center site, rebuilding officials said last week. Several officials have said they want a final plan by the end of February, at least a month earlier than previously scheduled. 
 Once a plan for the site is chosen, the officials said, they expect agencies other than the development corporation to take the lead in overseeing construction, while the development corporation focuses on plans for the memorial to victims of the last year's terror attack. 
"The whole idea is coordination," Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation and a close associate of Gov. George E. Pataki, said in an interview last week. "The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation I think did a great job of working with the families. As we go on, there is no question that these other agencies will have to build their projects using their expertise and their organizations and their people. And the L.M.D.C. will continue to have their very important responsibility with the memorial." Those other agencies are the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the State Department of Transportation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Overall, the new thrust in the rebuilding effort is part public relations and part political necessity. It reflects the desire of Mr. Pataki to take a more active role in the process now that his re-election has been secured and he has less reason to worry that his decisions about the rebuilding could hurt him politically, state officials say.
In addition, as rebuilding officials prepare for the release this month of new designs for the trade center site from seven teams of architects, they are hoping to move quickly to get rebuilding projects under way, in part to quell reports that the development corporation and the Port Authority are engaged in their own, possibly conflicting planning efforts.
In interviews last week, senior officials of the development corporation and the Port Authority acknowledged that their separate interests have, at times, fueled fights between the two agencies. It is a telling admission for officials who, at every opportunity for much of the last year, have spoken publicly about how well they were getting along. "Although we get into squabbles because we are approaching this from sometimes different angles, we always come together and agree we need to cooperate," Joseph J. Seymour, the executive director of the Port Authority, said. "We're still family."
It is not entirely surprising that such disagreements have developed at a time of economic uncertainty in a planning process with few clear lines of authority.
"There is always going to be some degree of natural tension among different agencies," said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Tomson is expected to emphasize a similar theme in his speech today. The two agencies are aiming to produce a complete plan for the trade center site by the end of February. The plan will include details on the location of the memorial, the shape that buildings might take and their location, and the underground infrastructure of a new transportation hub. Success depends on the ability of the development corporation and the Port Authority to overcome what one rebuilding official called obvious distrust between the two. "We've been working very hard to lay a strong foundation," Mr. Tomson said last week. "Now we have to execute on it."
Even if the development corporation has less responsibilty at thesite, it will continue work on broader redevelopment projects throughout Lower Manhattan.
The distrust between the agencies was much in evidence at a meeting in early October, when a task force of city, state, White House and Port Authority officials met to hammer out the detailed instructions to be given to the seven architecture groups.
Since the public rejection in July of the initial plans for the trade center site, officials from other agencies had pressed the Port Authority to loosen its demands that all of the 11 million square feet of commercial space destroyed on Sept. 11 be restored. At the October meeting, Mr. Seymour finally agreed to allow the architects to place anywhere from 6.5 million to 10 million square feet of office space on the site, as long as the remainder was on other parcels of land nearby.
Wary that the Port Authority would renege on its promise, Roland W. Betts, a development corporation director who heads that agency's site-planning committee, hastily scribbled an outline of the terms on a piece of scrap paper and passed it around for each of the eight people present to sign, according to four people who were at the meeting. The gesture evoked nervous laughter, but it continues to grate on Port Authority officials.
Further tension has surfaced over what appears to be separate planning efforts at the two agencies. In August, when the development corporation conducted a news conference to announce it would hire several new teams of architects to draw up more innovative plans for the trade center site, executives from the Port Authority were absent. The next month, just days before the new teams were selected, the Port Authority hired its own architect as an in-house consultant on the site.
That firm, Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn, had been championed by Port Authority officials in the competition to devise the initial set of designs for the rebuilding of the trade center. But the contract was awarded instead to Beyer Blinder Belle after Alexander Garvin, the development corporation's lead planner, cast a ballot that gave Ehrenkrantz a far lower score in the competition than it received from the other judges.
This fall, as the new teams of architects set about devising their plans for the site, reports circulated among rebuilding officials that the Port Authority's new consultant was working on the agency's own master plan for the trade center.
The issue came to a boil on Election Day at a meeting between officials of the two agencies. According to two people present at the meeting, Stanton Eckstut, a principal of the firm hired by the Port Authority, said that while the development corporation's seven teams of architects might be working on pretty building designs, he alone was preparing substantive plans for the site's streets, transportation facilities and underground infrastructure. 
Mr. Garvin strongly disagreed, saying that the work of the design teams goes far beyond building design.
Since then, officials of the Port Authority and the development corporation have maintained that their planning efforts are not in conflict and will be resolved early next year, after the most attractive effort of the architecture teams is combined with Mr. Eckstut's work on infrastructure.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After much criticism over the slow pace of redevelopment efforts at the site of the World Trade Center, John C. Whitehead, left, and Louis R. Tomson, have promised to expedite the process. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 55) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (73%); HIJACKING (73%); AIRLINES (71%); FAMILY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (NYS) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; TOMSON, LOUIS R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



44 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2586 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC PULSE: The Southwest; 
Recession Strikes Texas, Too, But Not in Old Oil-Bust Way

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
Only a year ago, the bad old days seemed to be back here in the nation's energy capital. One of the city's flagship companies, Enron, had filed for bankruptcy, firing more than 4,500 workers. Other energy giants teetered. The swagger this city had shown as the rest of the nation was mired in recession quickly dissolved into worried talk of an economic collapse rivaling the oil bust era of the 1980's.
 But what has happened in the last 12 months here and throughout the old oil patch of Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico has been more complicated than the boom-or-bust cycles that once defined the regional economy. Economists say that Texas, the powerhouse of the region, is now in recession. But it is a recession that reveals how the state's economy has diversified so broadly that the old assumptions no longer apply. 
 The demise of Houston, for example, never happened. The city has absorbed various layoffs and managed, essentially, to break even in a bad year. One survey of former Enron employees concluded that 70 percent of them have found work. Stephen Schwarz, 38, spent nearly six months jobless after losing a six-figure salary and healthy bonuses at Enron. Then he landed a contract position at a major oil company. 
"For most people that I know," Mr. Schwarz said, "before they had to do anything drastic, it worked out." 
Yet elsewhere the picture was more grim and reflected, for better and worse, how much more closely Texas is now interwoven not only with the national economy but also with the fortunes of Mexico. In Austin and Dallas, the state's technology and telecommunications corridor, which boomed in the 1990's, continued to suffer layoffs this year, as those industries struggled to recover nationally. The excesses of the earlier good times were evident in real estate listings in Austin, where scores of houses valued at more than $1 million sat on the market.
The economic fallout from Sept. 11 also reverberated into Texas. The security crackdown at bridges along the Mexican border inflicted big losses in retail sales in cities like Brownsville and El Paso, as long crossing delays led Mexican shoppers to stay home. In Dallas, convention business dropped off as part of a national tourism slowdown, while the problems troubling the airline industry in general have also struck the hometown of American Airlines. Economists say the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex has suffered because the nationwide manufacturing slowdown has hurt the region's status as a major distribution hub and center of business logistics.
"What you have is one of the hardest hit major metropolitan areas in the country," said Dr. Bernard L. Weinstein, director of the Center for Economic Development and Research at the University of North Texas, in Denton. "The irony is that two years ago, we had the lowest unemployment rate in the country among the 15 largest metro areas."
Fiscal challenges will also dominate debate when the Texas Legislature convenes in January and faces a budget shortfall estimated to be between $5 billion and $12 billion. Since 1995, lawmakers have enjoyed surpluses that have led to the passage of tax cuts. Republicans, who now control all houses of government in Texas, have ruled out tax increases, but shrinking tax collections will make it difficult to meet rising costs for entitlements like Medicaid.
In New Mexico and Oklahoma, the neighboring states usually in the shadow of Texas, the year has been surprisingly more benign. Unemployment remains high in New Mexico, but the state has actually performed slightly better than the rest of the nation in the recession. Oklahoma has benefited from having little involvement in high-tech and other industries at the center of the recession.
Instead, economists say that Oklahoma's manufacturing base and food-processing industries have helped the state move steadily through the tough economy.
Nor do economists believe that Texas will remain in the economic muck. Fiona Sigalla, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank in Dallas, said that the state remained in a recession but that there were signs that the economy was beginning to pick up steam. Ms. Sigalla and other economists predicted that Dallas, in particular, would begin to see improvements by the middle of next year. She noted that Texas has always claimed to have a friendly business climate and a capacity for being economically flexible enough to reinvent itself.
"The one thing Texas has always done is boom," Ms. Sigalla said.
Yet economists also agree that for this to happen, the national economy must first begin a true recovery. No one elixir can reinvigorate the state as a whole because the Texas economy is now built on so many pieces. But nor, as in years long past, can the state simply ride energy prices, regardless of the national economy. Even now, with oil prices considered high and natural gas prices again rising, the energy industry has been cautious, waiting for signs of a larger recovery.
"Diversification has its benefits, but it has its downsides," said Barton Smith, director of the Institute for Regional Forecasting at the University of Houston. "We're not going to recover until the national economy recovers."

Enron Fell; Houston Didn't
Anyone who doubts the economic upheaval that shook Houston need only pause at the foot of the city's newest -- and emptiest -- skyscraper. The silver Enron tower, a twin of the original Enron building across the street, was completed after the company filed for bankruptcy. For several months, the building housed UBS Warburg, the international firm that had bought Enron's trading unit. But UBS Warburg left, and the building's only tenants seem to be security guards.
A year ago, a common assumption was that Enron could become a domino that would knock down much of Houston. Unquestionably, the ramifications of its collapse have been broad. Energy companies like Dynegy, El Paso Corporation, Reliant, Williams and others have had their stock prices plunge and in some cases have laid off employees. The energy trading business that poured so much wealth into Houston is stagnant, and more layoffs and bankruptcies could follow. Other big corporate employers, too, like Continental Airlines and Compaq Computers, have had a difficult year.
Mr. Smith, the University of Houston economist, said it might seem natural to assume that there were parallels to the 1980's oil bust, but there were not. He said the energy sector in Houston had lost 15,100 jobs since early 2001. By comparison, he said, Houston lost 250,000 energy jobs in the 1980's. The economic devastation rippled through other parts of the Texas economy, including real estate, banking and publishing.
"It was a blood bath," he said. "What Houston is experiencing now is nothing."
Over all, Houston, which has more than 2.1 million jobs, broke even in employment in the last 12 months, losing a net 300 jobs, according to state work-force statistics. By way of explanation, Mr. Smith pointed out that in 2000, while Enron ranked first among corporations in revenues, it ranked only 18th in the number of jobs it supplied in the city. That same year, Mr. Smith said, Dynegy ranked fifth in revenues but 83rd in employment. He added that the concerns of many former Enron employees that they would be shunned by other employers were apparently unfounded.
Mr. Schwarz, the former Enron employee, said most of his friends at the company found jobs between February and May. He said those who struggled were the younger employees hired directly out of college at soaring salaries. 
"The bust had certainly restored some balance between your actual experience and your pay and responsibility," Mr. Schwarz said.
The energy industry still accounts for 49 percent of Houston's economy, but the city managed to plug along because of other sectors. Public construction projects, including football and basketball stadiums, highways and a light-rail line, provided stimulus. The city's enormous Texas Medical Center also continues to expand, while the Port of Houston remains a major economic factor.
Still, the slumping economy was evident. The market for high-end housing slowed noticeably in Houston, as For Sale signs suddenly appeared in fashionable areas like West University Place. (Economists note that the market for mid-priced houses remains healthy, partly because of record low interest rates.) The commercial real estate market, particularly downtown, softened. The collapse of the stock market, as well as the problems at Enron and other big corporations, was a blow to nonprofit organizations and other charities that depend on donations from companies and wealthy individuals.
Economists say it is possible that the Houston economy will simply tread water until the national economy improves. "Nothing is doing really super well," Mr. Smith said. "But no part of the economy is doing really super bad." 

The Shrinking Dallas Dollar
For most of the 1990's, Austin was the place to be in Texas. High-technology industries like semiconductor manufacturers and dot-com businesses transformed a funky university and state government town into a place that created more than 17,000 "millionaire households" from 1994 through 1999, according to one study.
But unemployment in Austin has jumped; it was 5.1 percent in October, up from 1.8 percent in October 2000, as technology companies across the country continued to struggle. 
A similar trend began ripping through Dallas in what became the beginning of a two-year run of layoffs in that city's telecommunications industry. Companies like Nortel Networks and Alcatel, each with large operations in the Dallas area, have announced layoffs of tens of thousands of employees around the world.
Mr. Weinstein, the University of North Texas economist, said the Dallas-Fort Worth area was down about 15,000 jobs from the same time last year. "It has been a jobless recovery here and elsewhere," he said. "I hope that will change."
The forecast, though, is one of cautious optimism, particularly for Dallas. Mr. Weinstein said the location and the transportation infrastructure made Dallas a vital distribution hub. He and other economists still predict that more layoffs could be coming, including possibly in the airline industry, yet there are signs of new economic activity that offer some optimism.
Bill Sproull, vice president for economic development at the Greater Dallas Chamber of Commerce, said the Dallas-Fort Worth area had shown "remarkable resilience in the face of an economic downturn" but conceded that the problems in telecommunications may not yet be over.
"It continues to bleed," Mr. Sproull said. "I don't know that it has hit bottom yet."
Still, he pointed to a handful of hopeful signs. First, he said the Defense Department buildup for the war on terrorism had brought new contracts to Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Boeing, all military contractors with operations in the metropolitan area. He also said that "prospect activity," or contacts by new businesses expressing interest in the Dallas area, rose 40 percent this year over last.
Mr. Weinstein predicted a gradual rebound as companies come to Dallas because commercial real estate is suddenly cheap and available, while the local work force is considered highly skilled. Mr. Smith, the University of Houston economist, agreed that both Dallas and Austin benefit from a talented work force and the advantages of strong universities, particularly in Austin, that can be incubators for new business.

Bottom Line at the Border
President Bush's announcement last week that Mexican trucks may soon begin traveling inside the United States was only the latest reminder of the newfound economic significance of the Texas-Mexico border. The border region is historically one of the poorest in the nation, with high rates of unemployment, yet there was significant economic investment in the 1990's as the North American Free Trade Agreement expanded trade between Mexico and the United States.
Cities like Brownsville, Harlingen and McAllen in the Rio Grande Valley benefited from investment as corporations built factories known as maquiladoras on the Mexican side of the border. Laredo, meanwhile, became the busiest inland port in the country as thousands of trucks poured back and forth every day between the countries. Only El Paso, at the western edge of Texas, did not enjoy much growth in the 1990's. Textile factories closed there after the trade agreement.
But in the last year, the whole border region has had a downturn. Keith Phillips, a Federal Reserve Bank economist based in San Antonio, said some manufacturers were closing maquiladoras and moving to China and Southeast Asia for cheaper labor. He said this had been particularly true around El Paso, where the factories in electronics and apparel have been hard hit by the recession.
Mr. Phillips said the maquiladoras on the Mexican side of the Rio Grande Valley, by contrast, were mostly in the automobile industry, which remained strong until recent months. Now, though, those factories are shedding jobs at a time when the Mexican economy is suffering and the value of the peso has plummeted. The result for the Texas side of the border, he said, has been a slowing of economic growth.
M. Ray Perryman, an economic consultant based in Waco, Tex., said that despite such fluctuations, the trade agreement would ensure a certain level of growth for the border in the near future. He said communities like McAllen and Harlingen were often included on lists of the country's fastest-growing communities. Yet, he said, much of that growth is in the sort of low-wage jobs that are contributing to a widening gap in Texas between rich and poor.
"We sort of have the growth-without-prosperity cycle," he said.
Besides the trade agreement, the pressing economic issue on the border is the water war with Mexico. American farmers in the Rio Grande Valley, as well as their Mexican counterparts, have demanded that the Mexican government release water from reservoirs into the Rio Grande, as demanded by treaty. The continuing drought had severely damaged crops in many areas of Texas and also offered a hint at what will most likely be one of the hottest economic issues of the coming decade -- the control of water at a time when state population grows at an explosive pace.

Stepsister Turns Cinderella
Oklahoma is the butt of countless jokes told in Texas, but it can boast a better rate of economic growth. Chad Wilkerson, a policy economist at the Kansas City Federal Reserve, said Oklahoma had grown slightly ahead of the national average in the last year, largely because it was not exposed to the technology and telecommunications collapse.
The exception was Tulsa, hometown of the Williams Companies, the energy giant that has suffered in the post-Enron downturn. Mr. Wilkerson said the troubles of Williams Communications, a high-tech subsidiary, has been Oklahoma's only real fallout from the technology bust.
By contrast, Oklahoma has added a small number of jobs because its manufacturing base is focused on heavy machinery and other industries less damaged by the slow economy. The state also has food processing plants for meat and chicken that have continued steadily along. Mr. Wilkerson said New Mexico, traditionally one of the poorest states, has had fairly high but stable unemployment rates. He said Albuquerque has had relatively healthy retail sales despite the slowdown and noted that the computer chip company, Intel, was expanding a manufacturing plant there.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen Schwarz spent six months without a job after losing his six-figure salary at Enron, but he and many like him have found new work. Enron, which filed for bankruptcy a year ago, has long since ceased to display the "crooked E" that had hung on the stone slab in front of its downtown Houston towers. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. 44) Graph tracks the unemployment rate of Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma since 2001. (Source: U.S. Department of Labor)(pg. 1) Chart: "LEDGER: Lone Star Slowdown"Texas, which boomed in the late 1990's with the telecommunications and technology industries, has been hit particularly hard by the recent economic downturn. But the economies of Texas and its neighboring states are responding differently to this slowdown from the way they have in the past, economists say. NET CHANGE IN NONAGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEESNew Mexico2001: + 5,6002002*: + 5,600 Oklahoma2001: + 12,7002002*: + 4,300 Texas2001: -91,9002002*: -22,000 Graph tracks the year-to-year percentage change in personal income for the following states, since 2000: N.M.Okla.Texas *Year-to-date (Sources: U.S. Department of Labor; U.S. Department of Commerce)(pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); AIRLINES (60%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (60%); RETAIL SALES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); CENTER FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (98%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



45 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Insurance Costs Are Dictating 3-Year Offers

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The line from the daily list of transactions practically leaped from the page.
 "Baltimore Orioles activated OF Albert Belle from the 60-day disabled list," it said. 
 What's this? Belle is back? His degenerative arthritic hip is better, and he is going to play next season? 
Not quite. The Orioles restored Belle to their 40-man roster not so he could play right field for them but so that their insurance policy on his $65 million contract would pay off for the third year. 
His bad hip forced Belle to retire after he had played only two years of the five-year contract. Fortunately for the Orioles, they had an insurance policy that would pay 70 percent of his salary in the event of permanent disability.
At $13 million a year for the last three years of the contract, the policy would pay $27.3 million, the Orioles $11.7 million.
Belle signed that contract four years ago today. If he were signing it today, the insurance policy would very likely not be as beneficial to the Orioles.
"I would think not," Joe Foss, the club's chief operating officer, said.
That is because insurance companies have made contract coverage a costlier and riskier business.
According to John Scotti -- whose Pittsburgh company, Team Scotti, is the largest broker for disability insurance in Major League Baseball -- premiums have risen more than 300 percent in the past 30 months, coverage has been reduced from five years of a player's contract to three years and the amount of coverage a broker can issue immediately is $18 million to $20 million, down from $42 million to $50 million just two years ago.
"Losses in the business have been substantial," Scotti said, "but reinsurers also have had a lot to deal with, including 9/11."
Contract coverage may be the most significant element of signing players that clubs don't talk about publicly. As an industry, Major League Baseball spent $55 million in premiums the past year.
The cost of insuring 70 percent of an individual contract can be more than $1 million a year. The Texas Rangers are paying $9 million in premiums for coverage of the first five years of Alex Rodriguez's 10-year, $252 million contract.
"It's become so expensive that it's a cost item we really have to look at when you put your payroll together," Walt Jocketty, the St. Louis Cardinals' general manager, said. "If you're going to insure players, you almost have to include that as part of your payroll."
Coverage can affect signing decisions in another way. With initial coverage restricted to the first three years, a club might hesitate to sign a big contract for more years. The Tom Glavine negotiations could be a case in point.
Glavine wants a four-year guaranteed contract, but the Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies each offered him three years guaranteed with an option for a fourth year.
If Glavine -- who will be 40 years old in the fourth year -- should break down that season, his club would not have insurance to cover his salary.
Ed Wade, the Phillies' general manager, would not talk about Glavine, but speaking generally he said: "Obviously we're all aware that the insurance market has changed dramatically. There are a very small number of companies willing to insure contracts. The insurance available comes with a lot of conditions and a high cost.
"Clubs have to reconcile themselves to not being able to get the kind of coverage they'd like, or they may go into a contract without any insurance coverage at all and hope for the best."
In another case, a person familiar with the Mets' plans said that when they were trying to sign Edgardo Alfonzo to a contract extension before he became a free agent, they did not want to exceed three years because of the insurance limitations. Alfonzo has had back problems, and the Mets did not want to risk a fourth and fifth year without insurance.
The three-year limit, the Orioles' Foss said, "is going to have an impact on clubs' appetite for the length of contracts."
Omar Minaya, the Montreal general manager, said: "When you're negotiating a contract, the insurance issue comes up more and more, especially now that it's three years. When you take on a guy in a trade, you always ask what's the insurance situation."
If a player's five-year contract is insured for the first three years and the player sustains a career-ending injury in the first three years, the policy will pay off on all five years. But if the player gets through the first three years and the club wants to keep the contract insured, it has to apply for a new policy for the last two years.
The insurance companies have created other difficulties for clubs.
"The companies are more aggressive in trying to exclude conditions from policies," Joe Garagiola Jr., the Arizona general manager, said. "We don't do a lot of policies. Mostly our insuring is confined to pitchers. But our experience is you can have a policy effectively excluded out from under you. You can have a disability policy on a pitcher, and exclusions can cover injuries to his shoulder and elbow."
The ease with which a policy can be obtained has also changed.
"I remember when it was a snap to get coverage immediately," Garagiola said. "You signed somebody, called the insurance company and they said O.K., we'll bind the coverage, send the paperwork. Those days are gone."
More and more, clubs have to try to line up insurance before they sign a player, but that kind of timing can create problems when a player is a free agent.
"What's going on," said Scotti, the insurance broker, "is the capacity, which is the amount of insurance a team can get on a player immediately, has shrunk to an all-time low."
In other words, if $18 million to $20 million is the capacity, the Mets very likely wouldn't be able to get instant coverage on Glavine even if he agreed to accept their three-year, $28.5 million offer.
If the outlook on the insurance issues offers any bright side for the clubs, it might be in the area of cost. "The cost has definitely started to stabilize," Scotti said. "I don't foresee the volatility that's been present in the past couple years in the next couple years."

Phillies Break Ranks
It happens every winter. One club, usually a different club each year, is singled out for criticism by other clubs for offering free agents too much money. This year it's the Philadelphia Phillies who have roused the critics for their aggressive offers to Jim Thome, Tom Glavine and David Bell.
"We have to do what we believe is appropriate for our situation now," Ed Wade, the general manager, said. "We've spent a long time getting to where we felt the foundation of our club was at the point where it made sense for us to go out and add the final pieces of the puzzle and create a championship-caliber club."
The Phillies, Wade said, are at an opportune juncture, with a nucleus of good young players and their new park a year away from opening.
"We were aggressive at the beginning of the process," he added, "because we felt it was important for us to be aggressive with the players we wanted. Last year we disappeared from the radar screen and we felt it was important to spend as much time as possible once the players filed to let them know what we're doing."
Wade said the Phillies' offers are comparable to what players have signed for previously, but the critics have said that is not the point.
This winter, they suggested privately, the market was supposed to offer less lucrative contracts for free agents.

Expos Not Dealing, Yet
In the days following the owners' Nov. 20 meeting, Montreal became a popular team for general managers to call. Their owners had suggested that they call to register their interest in the Expos' best players, particularly Bartolo Colon. What development prompted the suggestions?
At the meeting, the owners were told that baseball's economic plan for the Expos was to have them break even next season. Last season the Expos lost $8.5 million to $10 million. Baseball expects to make $10 million from the games the Expos play in Puerto Rico next season. 
The owners can be sharp sometimes. Taking those two financial facts together, they concluded that the only way the Expos could break even would be for their payroll to remain the same as it was last season, and the only way to keep the payroll the same would be to shed some of their higher-priced players.
The calls were made, but they were premature. No trade discussions ensued. Omar Minaya, the general manager, told callers that without a payroll figure, which he has not received, he would not discuss trading any of his players. Minaya later denied reports that he had asked for specific players in return for Colon. 
The day may come when Minaya will be forced into that mode, but it's not here yet.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The return of Albert Belle to the Baltimore Orioles' active list and the 40-man roster was just a book move for insurance purposes. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (78%); REINSURANCE (76%); SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT INSURANCE (76%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



46 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Farmers Put Down Roots in Brazilian Soil 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: LUIS EDUARDO MAGALHAES, Brazil 

 BODY:
More than a century after his ancestors began farming in the Midwestern United States, Dan Carroll's best hope of bringing his son into the family business is to buy land in the savannas of Brazil.
 Two months ago Mr. Carroll, of Carthage, Ill., bought a soybean farm on the outskirts of this dusty town of pickup trucks and barbecue restaurants 350 miles northeast of Brasilia. He joined more than a dozen other Americans who have recently begun farming here. 
 "I have no doubt that Brazil is the future of global agriculture and I want my son to be able to be part of that," Mr. Carroll, 46, said in an interview. "It's prohibitively expensive for him to buy land in the States right now."
Recent arrivals like Mr. Carroll and his son, John, have brought the number of American farmers in Brazil to more than 200, including a small Mennonite community, according to AgBrazil, a company in Columbia, Mo., that brokers Brazilian land deals.
Their numbers are expected to grow as Brazil's agricultural frontier expands. The recent decline of Brazil's currency, the real, weakened much of the economy but added value to export commodities, especially soybeans, in the last two years.
Brazil's export surge is causing a sharp increase in the soybean crop across the cerrado, a vast region of grasslands and savannas. Brazil has about four times as much available farmland as the United States has, largely because of improvements in soil fertility and the development of soybeans suitable to the tropics.
The expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier in the last two years is roughly equal to Iowa's entire soybean acreage, according to the United States Department of Agriculture's Brazil report, which was published in November.
"The guys who come down here now are awestruck," said Thomas Shanks, a farmer from upstate New York who has been growing soybeans and corn in Brazil for the last four years. 
Mr. Shanks said he received phone calls from American farmers nearly every day who were interested in buying farmland in Brazil.
Most are lured by relatively cheap land. Prices vary but cleared land in western Bahia, the epicenter of the soybean boom, can be bought for about $700 an acre compared with $3,850 in Illinois. There are few restrictions on foreign ownership of land in Brazil. 
"It's like getting a chance to open the Midwest to farming again," said Philip F. Warnken, the president and chief executive of AgBrazil, which conducts tours to the region each year. Farmers from Zimbabwe, Zambia and Canada have also taken part in his tours.
Luis Eduardo Magalhaes has grown from a few hundred homes around a gas station on the side of a highway a decade ago, into a community of about 35,000 people. Sensing the importance of attracting investment, the town's businesses spearheaded a movement to break away from the nearby city of Barreiras. They succeeded two years ago and renamed the town. 
"I don't care if they are Americans, Chinese, Africans, Argentines," Oziel Oliveira, the town's first mayor, said over breakfast at his new two-story home. "Anyone who wants to come here is welcome.". 
He and his wife, Jusmari Oliveira, a state legislator, recently made a trip to the United States to speak with Americans considering farming around the town. 
Luis Eduardo has grown quickly, drawing thousands of migrants to work as farmhands. Their district of town, made up of exposed cinderblock homes and bars selling shots of sugar-cane rum, is called Iraq because of the lawlessness there. 
"Rent and just everything else is too expensive now," said Edson Carvalho, a migrant who moved to Luis Eduardo from a poorer part of the state of Bahia.
Unlike the laborers who live in Iraq, almost everyone who owns a business or farm descends from European or Japanese immigrants who settled decades ago in southern Brazil. The first commercial farmers came nearly 20 years ago from the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul.
Vilson Kublik, the manager of a bustling John Deere dealership here, said the level of development in Luis Eduardo was good compared with the rest of Brazil. "If they have a farm vehicle in United States, we'll sell the same one here," he said.
In addition, American multinationals like Cargill and Bunge operate large soybean crushing plants here. 
Despite similarities with the United States, however, the integration of American farmers is not without its problems. Few farmers speak fluent Portuguese, preferring to have bilingual managers, and most Americans live only part of the year in Brazil. 
In addition, while the land may be cheap, transportation costs are not. Although rail and river projects are under way, most farmers need to send their crops to ports in trucks that barrel down pockmarked highways or dirt roads.
Still, the sheer availability of land appears to be on the side of farmers in Brazil, which is larger than the contiguous 48 American states. While it is second to the United States in soybean production, Brazil's output is growing faster. It is expected to produce a record 49 million tons of soybeans this harvest, up 13 percent from last year. 
To the surprise of some Americans, the rapid expansion of Brazilian agriculture is rooted in policies pursued by the United States to encourage meat production overseas, partly to stimulate American soybean exports. Soybeans, which are high in protein, are often used to feed chickens and pigs. 
American researchers helped Brazil in the 1970's to improve soils in the cerrado, helping transform what was once considered an inhospitable wasteland into what are now seemingly endless plains of farms.
That assistance, said Richard A. Levins, professor of applied economics at the University of Minnesota, has boomeranged, in a "jolt to our king-of-the-hill mentality."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture last Sunday with an article about American farmers who are buying farmland in Brazil, primarily to grow soybeans, was published in error. It showed corn, which is also being grown increasingly there.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign in Bahia state points to Fazenda Texas, an American-owned farm. Dan Carroll, left, an Illinois farmer who recently bought land in Brazil, showed his crop to Philip F. Warnken, the president of AgBrazil.; Thomas Shanks, from upstate New York, checks young soybean plants on his 9,855-acre farm in the western part of Bahia state in Brazil. "The guys who come down here now are awestruck," Mr. Shanks said. (Photographs by John Maier for The New York Times) Map of Brazil highlighting Luis Eduardo Magalhaes: Farming has fueled rapid growth in Luis Eduardo Magalhaes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOYBEAN FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (79%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%) SOYBEANS; AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ZAMBIA (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



47 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4475 words

HEADLINE: New Light on Jogger's Rape Calls Evidence Into Question 

BYLINE:  By JIM DWYER and KEVIN FLYNN

 BODY:
We cut her clothes off with a knife, said one boy. That was my first rape, said another. It was fun, said a third.
 Once, those raw words scarred the city. Recorded in April 1989, they narrated the maiming and near-murder of a jogger in Central Park, recounted the rampage of teenagers who went into the park to rob and beat people, and ultimately provided the blunt power of confessions that sent five of those boys to prison for gang rape. 
 More than a decade later, the official view of those words has taken a sharp turn. The Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, has signaled that he is likely to join defense lawyers on Thursday in asking a judge to vacate the convictions built on those words. Mr. Morgenthau declined to be interviewed last week; he said in October that he had been surprised by evidence that emerged in the last year. "I didn't expect this," he said. 
The new evidence includes a claim by Matias Reyes, a convicted murderer and serial rapist, that he alone attacked the jogger. DNA tests not only proved his involvement, but also showed that physical evidence had been wrongly used at two trials in 1990 to implicate the five teenagers. 
While significant, the presence of Mr. Reyes in the assault and the collapse of the physical evidence did not clear the original defendants, Antron McCray, Kevin Richardson, Yusef Salaam, Raymond Santana and Kharey Wise.
Those developments did, however, prompt prosecutors to reconsider the original case, conducting scores of additional scientific tests and interviewing two of the convicted boys, dozens of witnesses, former detectives and others.
At the core of the original case, prosecutors found two issues that call into question the involvement of those five teenagers in the attack: the confessions that convinced two juries of their guilt, and the sequence of events that night.
A reconstruction of the events in the park has bared a significant conflict, one that was hinted at but not explored in depth at the trials: at the time the jogger was believed to have been attacked, the teenagers were said to be involved -- either as spectators or participants -- in muggings elsewhere in the park.
The confessions, too, look different in the re-examination of the case. Once they seemed to include the only reasonable explanation for what happened. Now, Mr. Reyes offers an alternative, backed with DNA results that make his version tenable. 
From the outset, the confessions have been the subject of high-volume contention, with charges from the defense that the teenagers were coerced or tricked into confessing, and with law enforcement officials countering that the parents of the three were present for their videotaped statements. The New York Times has examined the record of the proceedings -- the tapes of the confessions and about 15,000 transcribed pages -- over the last six weeks. That review could not provide an unambiguous resolution to the charges of coercion, because the cameras were turned on only after the teenagers had been in custody, in some cases, for 28 hours, and already questioned at length. 
The record does show that much of what the youths said about the rape was wrong, including when, where and how it took place. Indeed, their description of the location, the victim's clothing and other details makes it seem, in retrospect, almost as if they were talking about another crime.
The importance of these descriptive errors was debated at the two trials. Speaking about the confession of Mr. Santana, the lead prosecutor, Elizabeth Lederer, said, "Don't you think that the detectives would have made him say things that were accurate, if they forced him to make the statement?" In convicting all five defendants, jurors evidently agreed. 
For many New Yorkers who followed the case, the new versions reopened a chapter in New York history that seemed long closed. The boys each admitted going to the park in a loose gang that attacked runners and bicyclists, finally chasing down the woman, taking off her clothes and watching as she was raped. Each boy sought to minimize his own role. Given the frenzy of the attacks, the mistaken details were natural, but not important, Ms. Lederer argued. The confessions were honest.
And, she pointed out, hairs from the jogger were found on two of the suspects. How could that have happened if they were not involved?
That evidence has not stood up. Earlier this year, advanced DNA tests showed that those hairs had not come from the victim. DNA tests also found Mr. Reyes's semen -- and no one else's -- on swabs taken from the victim and a sock found near the scene of the rape.
Advances in DNA testing have also contributed to a broader understanding that not all confessions can be believed, and that few, if any, false confessions are the products of police conspiracies; a more likely formula, academic research shows, is some combination of vulnerable suspects and the investigative zeal inspired by dreadful crimes.
One of the most intriguing new views of the case rises from the reconstruction of the sequence of events. By establishing that the teenagers were part of a crowd that was bothering or beating other people during the critical time of the rape, the reconstruction provides them with an alibi that is plausible, if not airtight, and certainly unsavory.
"That was the issue," said Peter Rivera, Mr. Santana's lawyer in 1990. "But we didn't say, 'No, when the jogger was raped, my client was on 96th Street, mugging someone else.' That would have been self-defeating."
The new inquiry into the Central Park case has been the subject of bickering between the district attorney's office and the Police Department. The agencies are divided over whether the convictions are simply legally defective or represent a fundamental miscarriage of justice. Some senior prosecutors and investigators in Mr. Morgenthau's office say they now believe that the five boys were probably not involved in the assault.
Other former and current law enforcement officials, including police detectives and Linda Fairstein, the chief of the Sex Crimes Unit -- who oversaw the prosecution when she was a member of the district attorney's office -- continue to hold that the teenagers managed to have some contact with the jogger, and perhaps ran the jogger off the path, starting the assault that Mr. Reyes finished.
Those convinced that the original case was sound are skeptical that a timeline, with a margin of error of a few minutes for a small part of the park, will ultimately be revealing. "I could argue that side of it to you," said one senior police official who has been involved in the inquiry, "and then I could change chairs and argue the other side just as strongly. It's hard to know."

Sequence
Trying to Pinpoint 40 Critical Minutes
The critical period in the Central Park jogger case began a few minutes after 9 p.m. on April 19, 1989, and ended about 9:40. During those 40 minutes, a group of boys who lived in or near Schomburg Plaza on 110th Street entered the park and started beating people as they moved south along East Drive. They continued the attacks on the other side of the 97th Street Transverse, at the reservoir running track.
In the days after, the chief of detectives and the lead prosecutor said publicly that the rape of the jogger took place at 10:05, following the muggings near the reservoir. Newspapers including The New York Times published timelines that the authorities had constructed from the confessions of three of the five teenagers.
Once investigators were able to retrace the woman's movements, they realized that the assault had probably taken place close to an hour earlier. "There is not the remotest possible chance this crime happened after 10 o'clock," Ms. Lederer said in court. 
That meant the rape could have happened only during the series of muggings along East Drive. That sequence called into question the reliability of the confessions, but juries at both trials of the case resolved the discrepancy and found the teenagers guilty. 
This year, senior Manhattan prosecutors are reconsidering the timing. Was there enough time for the same people to participate in the rape and the muggings?
The jogger says she has no recollection of what happened. To investigators, the best evidence suggests she was attacked between 9:10 and 9:15, on a path that wound across the park from approximately 104th Street on the East Side toward 102nd Street on the West Side.
The physical evidence shows that she was raped by one man; if others sexually assaulted her, they did so without leaving any biological trace. That evidence provides no guidance on the time of the crime. 
Still, her movements were not a secret. Based on the accounts of a neighbor and a friend, as well as her usual habits, it is likely that she left home by 9 p.m. and expected to be back about 40 minutes later.
At 8:55, she bumped into the neighbor, James Lansing, in the hallway of their building at 83rd Street near York Avenue as she was heading to the park. They chatted for a moment about the best places to run, Mr. Lansing testified, and then the woman left. 
After that, the next confirmed sighting of her was four and a half hours later, at 1:30 a.m., when a police officer was summoned by two men who discovered her, unconscious, in a wooded area of the park near 103rd Street. The police officer called for an ambulance. The woman had no identification.
She had been due home on 83rd Street at 10 p.m. to meet Patrick Garrett, a friend from work, so he could look at her stereo. He later testified that he rang her bell and got no reply, so he called from a pay phone and left a message. The next morning, when she did not show up for work, he notified their supervisors. Eventually, the police called him to Metropolitan Hospital to identify the woman found in the park. It was his friend.
No one could say what time she was struck down, but the woman, an investment banker, was a creature of habit. She ran the same route six nights a week at a pace of eight-minute miles, she testified. Her regular circuit took about 40 minutes. From her home to the spot on the cross drive where she was attacked, she estimated her running time at 16 or 17 minutes.
That means she would have reached the crime scene between 9:10 and 9:15 p.m. If all had gone well, she would have completed her run and been home before her 10 p.m. appointment with Mr. Garrett. 
As she reached the northern end of her run, an evening of mayhem was just picking up steam. A group of about 30 boys had assembled before 9 p.m. and made their way into the park around 110th Street. Most were between 13 and 15 years old.
During the critical time of 9 to 9:40 p.m., witnesses and the teenagers' statements placed the group in two areas: first, moving south along East Drive between 105th and 102nd Streets, where they attacked several bicyclists and a man on foot; and second, across the 97th Street Transverse, at the northwest end of the reservoir running track. Between 9:05 and 9:15 p.m., they attacked three people, each a block or two south of the preceding one.
Michael Vigna, a competitive bicycle rider, testified that he had marked his pacing time from a big clock in Columbus Circle, and had calculated that it was 9:05 p.m. when he was hassled by a group of boys on East Drive, west of the Conservatory Garden, around 105th Street. One threw a punch as he rode past, Mr. Vigna said.
The next victim, Antonio Diaz, was attacked a short distance south of Mr. Vigna, roughly where 103rd Street crosses East Drive. It appears that sometime after the Vigna attack at 9:05 and before 9:15, the group of boys found Mr. Diaz walking by himself. They knocked him to the ground, kicked him, then took his bag of food and beer. A police officer testified that he found Mr. Diaz wandering along a path at 9:30, and put out an alarm of an unruly crowd. 
Mr. Diaz did not give a clear account of the time, but one detail appears to place the incident between 9:05 and 9:15: a bag that contained beer bottles, taken from Mr. Diaz, was apparently discarded on the side of the road. Mr. Vigna, the bicycle rider, said the beer had not been on the road just before he ran into the group at 9:05. At 9:15, the beer bottles were spotted by Gerry Malone, who was sharing a tandem bicycle with his fiancee, Patricia Dean.
The tandem bike riders are important time markers, along with Mr. Diaz and Mr. Vigna. If the jogger kept her regular pace, she would have reached the crime scene during this series of attacks. 
Mr. Malone, another competitive rider who tracked his speed, testified that his last time check had been 9:06, on the Newsweek building clock. Based on their pace, he testified, they reached East Drive south of 102nd Street at 9:15. There, a group of boys tried to block them. Mr. Malone said he bore down, hitting top speed as he headed straight for the boys, scattering them. Ms. Dean testified that the boys grabbed at her. 
Just north of the gang, Mr. Malone noticed the beer on the roadway, presumably left there when Mr. Diaz was attacked. Mr. Malone said he had not seen the bottles on an earlier circuit. After they cleared the group, Mr. Malone and Ms. Dean stopped at a police call box, then spoke to an officer on 72nd Street. 
The victims' testimony varied by a minute or two at each of the two trials, but in general, the record of attacks along East Drive between 9:05 and 9:15 is well established. Investigators see that as the likeliest time that the jogger was attacked, at a spot slightly to the north and west.
In her closing argument, Ms. Lederer said the rape of the jogger happened immediately after 9:15, perhaps as late as 9:20, although it is not clear what evidence supports those times.
"So I suggest to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is evidence" showing that the victim was raped "after the tandem bike people were attacked, and before the people at the reservoir were attacked," Ms. Lederer said. "I submit to you, you may never know for sure. And it doesn't matter, because one thing you know for sure is that Kevin Richardson and Kharey Wise were present at that attack."
If that is so, the crimes took place at a high velocity, given that the tandem bike attack took place at 9:15, and that the earliest of the reservoir muggings was put at 9:25 by that victim. If those times are reliable, the boys had 10 minutes to abandon their trek southward, double back to the north end of the North Meadow, intercept the jogger as she ran along the cross drive, drag or chase her nearly 300 feet from the road, subdue her during multiple rapes, cave in her head, and then race seven or eight blocks south, climb down a wall on one side of the transverse and up the wall on the other side in time to catch the first of the reservoir victims.
Is it possible that more than 10 minutes were available to complete this? When pressed on the witness stand, David Lewis, the man who said he was attacked at 9:25, testified that it could have been as late as 9:40. Another victim, Robert Garner, said he was assaulted at 9:30 at the reservoir, and the time of an attack on a runner, David Good, was set at 9:47 through his testimony. 
The last documented victim of the gang was John Loughlin, a schoolteacher who was severely beaten and kicked. He had left home for his run when a television show ended at 9:30, he testified, and he estimated that he was struck between 9:40 and 9:50. An auxiliary police officer testified that he found Mr. Loughlin wandering in a daze near the reservoir at 9:55. 
As victims and witnesses called for help, police scooters and unmarked cars converged. At 10:30, the police arrested five teenagers along Central Park West and 102nd Street.
Unknown during all this were the whereabouts of Mr. Reyes, perhaps the most dangerous person in the park that night. His presence was not verified until this year, when DNA tests showed that semen recovered from the woman's body was his. His pubic hair and more of his semen were extracted from one of her socks, discarded a few yards from where she was found. No one else left physical evidence at the scene.

Confessions
Inconsistencies In Teenagers' Words
No one can dispute that the videotapes made by four of the five teenagers are a chronicle of muggings, misdemeanor and gang rape. 
Nor is there any serious dispute that parts of the tapes, particularly those dealing with the rape, are broadly inaccurate on where, when and how it took place. 
Three of the boys -- Mr. Santana, Mr. Wise and Mr. Richardson -- had the time wrong by 45 minutes or more. 
Mr. McCray's version put the rape at a plausible time, but at an implausible location, saying it happened between the reservoir and the tennis courts, about seven blocks from where the jogger was found. He also said the victim was raped where she was jumped, although the evidence showed that the jogger was knocked down at one place and dragged or chased nearly 300 feet. 
The fifth teenager convicted of the rape, Mr. Salaam, did not make a videotaped statement, nor did he sign a written summary or notes, but a detective said Mr. Salaam told him that the attack on the jogger happened before the assaults at the reservoir, effectively placing it before 9:30.
Mr. Wise said a knife was plunged into the victim repeatedly, although the prosecution's medical expert testified that he found no wounds from any sharp object.
On the other crimes, the teenagers' accounts are broadly consistent with the versions offered by the victims. Even more telling, a few of the incidents described in the confessions -- attacks on runners or bicyclists who got away -- had not yet been reported to the police when the teenagers mentioned them. 
Eventually, the strengths of the confessions, combined with physical evidence of the hairs, which seemed to show contact between the suspects and the jogger, convinced two juries that the confessions were essentially true: the five teenagers had been part of the assault. Nothing else reasonably explained what had happened to the victim.
Now, the emergence of Mr. Reyes provides an alternative reality -- that he raped the woman, a fact corroborated by DNA tests, and that he did it alone, an assertion that has not been proven or disproven.
To date, only Mr. Reyes is linked to the crime by any evidence beyond words, putting pressure on the reliability of the teenagers' confessions and how they were obtained.
On that critical point, the documentary record is silent. The video camera was not turned on until the detectives had finished other, unrecorded interrogations, generally after the suspects had been in custody for seven hours or more. As a result, the debates over what happened during those hours have amounted to swearing contests between the defendants and the detectives. 
Through their questions, the defense lawyers tried to raise doubts that the statements had been made voluntarily, a requirement of New York law. Did the detectives throw chairs? Did they tell Raymond Santana that he claimed not to have touched the jogger because he was homosexual? Did they promise that the boys would be better off as witnesses than defendants? Or did they, as most of the detectives testified, merely ask what happened?
Coercion, under the law, can be psychological or physical, but the line between good, aggressive police work and illegal bullying does not form a clear boundary that can be simply applied to all the ways one person can push another to answer a question. In every instance, the legality of the Central Park statements -- witnessed by parents for three of the five suspects, after readings of the Miranda warning -- was upheld by the trial judge and through the appellate process.
Even among detectives, though, there was considerable disagreement about what happened during the interviews, as explained in "Unequal Verdicts," an authoritative account of the trials by Timothy Sullivan, an editor for Court TV. 
A day after the rape, Mr. McCray, for instance, was interviewed by two detectives, Carlos Gonzalez and Harry Hilderbrandt. Under questioning by Michael Joseph, the lawyer for Mr. McCray, the detectives told stories that differed in several key details, the trial record shows.
Detective Hilderbrandt said Mr. McCray did not admit to penetrating the victim; Detective Gonzalez said he did. Detective Hilderbrandt said the suspect had not cried; Detective Gonzalez said he had. For much of the interview, Mr. McCray had said that he knew nothing about the rape. Once his mother left the room he discussed the rape -- although he placed it by the tennis courts, nearly half a mile south of where it had taken place.
Why had his mother left the room? Detective Hilderbrandt testified that she left at the suggestion of his stepfather, who remained; Detective Gonzalez said it was at the suggestion of the detectives.
Finally, in Detective Hilderbrandt's account, the detectives wrote out Mr. McCray's statement only after the mother returned. Detective Gonzalez testified that the statement was completed before she was brought back.
Many investigators still see a powerful logic in the teenagers' confessions. The teenagers were in the same area of the park as the jogger. About 37 boys were interviewed, and about 30 detectives were involved. To police officials reconsidering the case, such a throng rules out a coordinated plan to script the statements. 
While it is true that many detectives were involved, a much smaller group of detectives obtained the confessions. One, John Hartigan, took three of the four incriminating statements before they were recorded. 
Another point being considered by the investigators is what standard of precision should be applied to the confessions. Mistaken details are common even in reliable confessions from people whose guilt is thoroughly corroborated. 
To the defense, the mistakes made by their clients reflect the limited information the detectives had so early in the case to feed to their suspects, whether purposely or not. "The police did not know the time when it happened," argued Colin Moore, who represented Mr. Wise. "So they got it screwed up."
Under the law, parents are an important barrier to coercion of minors. In three cases, the parents were in the room while the videotapes were made. The two exceptions were boys thought to be past 16, the age when a parent is usually required: Mr. Wise, who was 16, and Mr. Salaam, who was 15, but had a transit pass showing his age as 16. Mr. Salaam's questioning was not videotaped because his mother arrived and, after an encounter with Ms. Fairstein, of the Sex Crimes Unit, called for a lawyer.
While the parents of the other three were present for the videotapes, they apparently were absent during key moments of the interrogations. Mr. Richardson's mother fell ill after being in the station house for 11 hours, and she left him in the custody of his sister. It was then that he incriminated himself.
Mr. Santana was questioned for three hours in the presence of his grandmother, and later his father, denying any involvement in the rape. At some point, his father and grandmother left the station house, and by Detective Hartigan's account, the teenager asked if he could speak alone to the investigator. Then, the detective said, Mr. Santana essentially confessed to the rape. The detective testified, "I never asked him questions as to what he did." Later, Mr. Santana made the same admissions on camera, with his father in the room. 
Mr. Santana was interviewed again in June and described the assault on one of the joggers at the reservoir, but made no mention of the rape. Asked about it, Mr. Santana said he had been tricked by Detective Hartigan and another detective, Humberto Arroyo.
"Hartigan told me the others admitted raping the woman and said I was there and that if I didn't admit it, he couldn't help me," a police report quotes Mr. Santana as saying. "So I made up the story you see on the tape to satisfy them."
Over the last decade, DNA testing has cleared 27 people nationwide who were convicted of crimes based on some form of confession, according to records kept by the Innocence Project at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. In another category, Prof. Steven Drizzen at the Northwestern University School of Law and Prof. Richard Leo at the University of California at Irvine have identified 130 people who falsely confessed but were cleared before trial.
One legal scholar, Paul Cassell, argues that most verified false confessions come from vulnerable segments of the population, such as people with mental disabilities.
At the teenagers' trials, defense lawyers tried without success to introduce records of psychological examinations and test scores of Mr. McCray and Mr. Wise. Mr. McCray had an I.Q. of 87, and in the ninth grade was reading at a fourth-grade level. Mr. Wise, at age 16, was said to have an I.Q. of 73 and a second-grade reading level. In two separate video statements, Mr. Wise described aspects of the rape, with a roster of aggressors that shifted, sometimes from phrase to phrase. He made bizarre statements, saying that the group had attacked a blue van, which was carrying police officers, and that later one jogger had retaliated against the group by beating up half of the teenagers. There was no evidence that such incidents occurred.
"What that illustrates very clearly is a kid who is prepared to say almost anything that the district attorney wants to hear," Mr. Moore, the lawyer for Mr. Wise, had argued. 
Investigators were not the only ones who heard what sounded like admissions from Mr. Wise. When he was being kept at Rikers Island, he telephoned friends. One, Melody Jackson, testified that she had asked him about the assault on the jogger. "He said: 'Mel, I didn't have sex with her. The only thing I did was touch her legs,' " Ms. Jackson testified. Earlier this year, investigators visited her again, according to a police report, and she stuck by her story.
So, too, did the convicted teenagers: in prison, records show, at least four of them declined to accept responsibility for the rape, costing them extra time in prison. 
Many people close to the case believe that the legal verdict is bound to be overturned in the coming days. If Mr. Reyes's statements and the recent DNA tests do not exonerate the original five defendants, they qualify as "newly discovered evidence" for which verdicts may be vacated under the New York State penal code.
Since all the defendants have finished their sentences for the gang rape and the other muggings, and because the statute of limitations has run out on Mr. Reyes's involvement, it is unlikely that any new criminal trials will be held on charges arising from that night in Central Park -- even if prosecutors determine that the confessions are a reliable guide to what happened on an April night in 1989.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday on doubts that have arisen about evidence in the 1989 Central Park jogger case, including confessions by the five defendants, misspelled the surname of a Northwestern University law professor who has compiled a list of false confessions. He is Steven A. Drizin, not Drizzen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In April 1989, a day after a jogger was attacked, police investigators looked for evidence in Central Park. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The defendants and their lawyers waited for a ruling during the trial in February 1990. (James Estrin/The New York Times); Antron McCray; Kevin Richardson; Raymond Santana; Kharey Wise; Yusef Salaam; Matias Reyes, a convicted murderer and serial rapist, repeated claims in a television interview with ABC that he alone attacked a female jogger in Central Park in 1989.; Kharey Wise, left, and Yusef Salaam were two of the five teenagers convicted of rape. (Photographs by ABC News)(pg. 51) Chart: "Conflicting Accounts"Following are selections from the videotaped confessions of four of the five men who were convicted in the rape of the Central Park jogger, and from the police notes of the confession of the fifth man, Yusef Salaam, who was not taped. Antron McCrayWe was at the tennis courts and then we seen this lady jogging lady. She had on blue shorts and a white, white shirt. The crime took place at least seven blocks from the area he describes, across ball fields and the 97th Street Transverse. The victim was wearing a white shirt and long black running tights. Kevin RichardsonQ. O.K. Where did the group go?A. That's when we walked to the Reservoir . He describes the group going to the Reservoir directly from the attacks on the East Drive, before the sexual assault on the jogger on the 102nd Street cross drive. Raymond SantanaQ. After you left that man, where did you go?A. Everybody was heading to go to the West Side.Q. Away from the Reservoir?A. Um hmm.Q. Where did you go?A. As we heading to the West Side, thats when I seen Kevin.Q. That's where you saw Kevin. Was anybody with Kevin?A. Yeah, a lady. The group left the reservoir at 10 p.m., some 45 minutes after the jogger is likely to have reached the area of 102nd Street. Even so, Mr. Santana says it is at this point they intercepted her. Kharey WiseQ. And after Kevin was done, did he get off?A. Yeah, they got off and before they left, whats his name pulled out his knifeand cut her legs up, cut her up.Q. What did he do to cut her up?A. Yeah and before they left, he pulled out his knife and cut her up. They cut her legs.They pull out and start cutting her legs up, her chest, whatever, I didn't really see it. The prosecution's medical expert testified that there were no injuries from any sharp object. Yusef SalaamFollowing the rape, "He says he left them and went back into the tree line. He was with the guy with the gold cap and others when he observed a male jogger in a green jacket coming, he say he didnt want to go near the guy because he might have a gun or something . . . ." According to Detective Thomas McKenna, who made these notes, Mr. Salaam placed the rape at the correct location, and in the correct sequence; however, the attack on the man in the green jacket took place at the Reservoir, not the area where the rape took place.(pg. 51) Chart/Diagram: "Timeline of Attacks"A reconstruction of the sequence of events on the night of April 19, 1989, reveals that at the time the jogger was believed to have been attacked, the five teenagers accused of raping her were said to be involved -- either as spectators or participants -- in muggings elsewhere in the park. 8:55 P.M. The female jogger leaves her building at 83rd Street and York Avenue, according to the testimony of a neighbor. She was to be back home by 10 P.M. to meet Patrick Garrett, a friend from work, so he could look at a stereo. 1.) 9:05 P.M.MICHAEL VIGNA, a bicycle rider, says he is hassled by a group of boys. One takes a swing at him. 2.) BETWEEN 9:10 AND 9:15 P.M.ANTONIO DIAZ , an unemployed man, encounters the group and is knocked to the ground, kicked and dragged from the roadway to the grass. 9:12 P.M. Robert Garner, an airline consultant, enters park. 3.) 9:15 P.M.GERALD MALONE AND PATRICIA DEAN -- are on their second lap around the park on a tandem bike when the group tries to block their path. Mr. Malone speeds through the youths; several try to grab Ms. Dean. 9:20 P.M. Earliest time given by David Lewis, a banker, as the time he entered the park. BETWEEN 9:20 AND 9:25 P.M. Mr. Malone and Ms. Dean meet a police officer at 72nd Street and West Drive and tell her about their encounter. 4.) BETWEEN 9:25 AND 9:40 P.M.DAVID LEWIS -- is attacked as he jogs around the reservoir. He sprints away and heads for the Central Park police headquarters on the 85th St. Transverse. 5.) 9:30 P.M.ROBERT GARNER -- is attacked on his second lap around the reservoir. 9:35 P.M. David Good, an engineer, enters the park at 90th Street and Fifth Avenue. 9:40 P.M. John Loughlin, a school teacher, begins lap around reservior. 6.) BETWEEN 9:45 AND 9:50 P.M.JOHN LOUGHLIN -- encounters the youths, who appear to be beating someone else. He is hit from behind and knocked unconscious. 7.) BETWEEN 9:47 AND 9:50 P.M.DAVID GOOD -- encounters the group and has a stick thrown at him as he runs. 9:55 P.M. Mr. Loughlin is found by a police officer. 10:05 P.M.Time that the chief detective and the lead prosecutor originally said that the jogger had been attacked. Prosecution TheoryAt the time of the trial in 1990, the prosecution contended that after the encounter with the tandem bike, the group backtracked to attack the jogger, then ran across the North Meadow to the Reservoir and attacked people there. Based on testimony, this activity would have had to have taken place in as little as 10 minutes. Diagram of Central Park highlights the locations of the events listed above and the following: Matias Reyes, a convicted killer and serial rapist, says that he followed the jogger and that he alone assaulted her. Pubic hair and semen found on the victim were determined earlier this year to be his. Jogger is assaulted on the path then dragged to the Loch and raped. Tandem bike riders report incident from a call box at the tennis courts. In a videotaped confession, one of the attackers said that the rape of the jogger took place near the tennis courts Mr. Lewis and Mr. Loughlin enter the park here Mr. Lewis and Mr. Good run to the Central Park police headquarters after they are attacked. When the group of attackers is finally arrested, they are also taken here. Mr. Garner enters the park here and runs counterclockwise around the reservior. (Charles M. Blow/The New York Times) (Sources: Trial Transcripts)(pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVIDENCE (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); MURDER (77%); WITNESSES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); DNA (73%); GENETIC SCREENING (71%); DNA TESTING (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



48 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Unemployment Docket: David v. Goliath

BYLINE:  By Terry Pristin 

 BODY:
The maintenance worker had been denied unemployment insurance benefits because his employer said he had failed to show up for work three days in a row without calling in sick. That meant he had voluntarily quit and was not entitled to benefits.
 But the worker contended that he had been dismissed, and Joel Leichter, who represented him at a hearing earlier this year to resolve the dispute, was prepared to prove that the man was being truthful.
 First Mr. Leichter ostentatiously asked the employer to recite his telephone numbers. Then he pulled out his trump card - the maintenance worker's telephone bill. About a dozen calls had been placed to the employer on the days he missed work. The benefits were granted. 
 For an administrative proceeding, it was a moment of high drama. "This," said Mr. Leichter, savoring the triumph, "was something right out of Perry Mason."
 Mr. Leichter is not a lawyer, but since 1994 he has represented about 2,000 people who were denied unemployment insurance by the State Department of Labor and who then sought a reversal from an administrative law judge.
 Mr. Leichter, who provides free representation through the Workers Defense League, a nonprofit organization that is financed in part by labor unions, says he wins about two-thirds of his cases.
 The unemployment Action Center, a non-profit group run by law students that also provides free representation to people denied benefits, claims a 60 percent success rate. Only about 30 percent of the people who show up at hearings without an advocate are likely to prevail, said Hannah Shay, a Columbia law student and spokeswoman for the Unemployment Action Center.
 These organizations can help only a fraction of the thousands of people who appear before one of the administrative law judges at 110 King Street in Lower Manhattan. In most cases, the advocates say, the contest is not an even match. Usually, the former employee lacks any notion of how to present a winning case.
 Employers, by contrast, are often represented by professionals who are thoroughly familiar with the ins and outs of the unemployment insurance system. Employers have a strong incentive to contest the calims because their costs rise according to the number of employees who draw benefits.
 As anyone who has ever had a bad boss can understand, many employees could go on for hours about their grievance, but it is up to the advocate to get them to focus on the narrow issues involved in the hearing: Did the employee quit voluntarily? What was the incident that led to the employee's departure?
 "When clients come to talk to us they tend to be a little incoherent," said Evan K. Farber, another law student at Columbia. "We try to take that story and make it much more presentable." Mr. Farber recently succeeded in getting unemployment benefits for an auto mechanic who had been falsely accused of being drunk on the job.
 Patricia Lezama collected unemployment checks for two weeks after she was let go by a Brooklyn nursing home where she had worked as a nurse's assistant for 27 years. The checks stopped coming because the nursing home had accused her of misconduct. She was able to refute the employer's story with the help of Kati Daffan, a first-year law student at Columbia.
 "I wanted to know what to expect," Ms. Lezama said. "She was very, very helpful."
 On one recent morning, Jack A. Sanzone, who earned $365 a week as a mailroom supervisor for the Rent Stabilization Association, a landlords' group, was about to appear at a hearing on whether he had been overpaid by $4,500 in unemployment benefits. He was clearly agitated about the confrontation. "The most important thing," Mr. Leichter said, "is only answer the question."
 Mr. Sanzone began to calm down. "Less is more," he said, nodding.
 Occasionally, it is the employer who is outmatched. Mr. Leichter recently represented Allen Smalls, who had been denied benefits after being dismissed as a front-desk clerk for St. Francis Friends of the Poor, a home for the mentally ill.
 The home's business manager offered a confusing litany of complaints against Mr. Smalls. Mr. Leichter pointed out that the witness's account did not mesh with what the employer had told the state.
 In a written decision issued Tuesday, Judge Laurance L. Paver agreed. Mr. Smalls, the judge concluded, "committed no act of misconduct which resulted in his discharge."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Home Front column on the front page of the Job Market section last Sunday about jobless workers who file appeals over unemployment benefits misstated the former weekly salary of Jack A. Sanzone, who appeared at a hearing about his benefit after losing his job as a mailroom supervisor at the Rent Stabilization Association. It was $545, not $365.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Unemployement Insurance in New York" shows the number of insurance claims in the state during 2000 and 2001. Also, the number of claims appealed by the employee or employer during the same period (Source: New York State Department of Labor) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (77%); JUDGES (76%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: WORKERS DEFENSE LEAGUE (ORGN); UNEMPLOYMENT ACTION CENTER (ORGN) 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



49 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-28

American Command Post Set Up in Persian Gulf
The United States military is installing a new command center at a base in Qatar that could serve as a headquarters for the American general who would lead an attack on Iraq. The official purpose of the work at the As Sayliyah base is to prepare for a major military exercise. 1

Africa's bin Laden Links
As investigators struggled to determine who was behind the attacks on Israeli targets in Kenya on Thursday, they re-examined evidence that East Africa has served as both a useful base and a target for Osama bin Laden's terrorist network for nearly a decade. But while Al Qaeda remained a strong suspect, the Kenyan police reported few leads in the case. 1

Turkey Ends Emergency Rule
Turkey has lifting a 15-year state of emergency in the southeast region of the country, ending an era in which security forces wielded sweeping powers to combat a Kurdish separatist rebellion that led to 30,000 deaths. Human rights groups had complained of serious human rights violations. 4

East Timor Acquittals
An Indonesian human rights court has acquitted four former security officials, including two army officers, on charges of crimes against humanity during the bloodshed that engulfed East Timor three years ago. The Bush administration had pressed Indonesia for convictions. 8

New U.S. Aid in Philippines
The United States and the Philippines may soon begin a new military training operation against Muslim militants in the southern Philippines. The proposed exercise reflects the Pentagon's growing concern that militant Islamic networks pose an increasing threat to Americans. 32

NATIONAL 37-46

Recession Strikes Texas, But Not in Old Oil-Fed Way
After Enron's bankruptcy many in Texas, and throughout the Southwest, worried about an economic collapse rivaling the oil bust era of the 1980's. But what has happened in the last 12 months has been more complicated than the boom-or-bust cycles that once defined the regional economy. Texas is in a recession that reveals how the state's economy has diversified so broadly that the old assumptions no longer apply. 1

Stormy Time for S.E.C.
The Securities and Exchange Commission, still reeling from the recent resignation of top officials, is plagued by problems that have undermined its ability to police companies and markets, government officials and legal experts say. 1

Court Faces Tough Choices
The Supreme Court faces choices in the next few weeks that could have a momentous effect on the country's legal, political and social agendas. 39

Union Makes Concessions
United Airlines' flight attendants gave approval to $412 million in contract concessions. Their move came even as the leader of the airline's mechanics pleaded with members to reconsider their rejection and save the airline from bankruptcy. 42

Quakes Make Region Anxious
Residents in Northern California are concerned about the possibility of a major earthquake after a swarm of smaller quakes struck near San Francisco last week. 37

Wildlife and Oil Rigs
Padre Island National Seashore in Texas is not a good test case for those who would draw absolute lines in the sand about what should be allowed in a national park. The park is a heavily traveled, natural-gas-producing wedge of sand that happens to be a terrific place to rescue endangered birds and turtles. 37

NEW YORK/REGION 49-57

Confessions in Jogger Case Seen in a New Light
In April 1989, the words of teenagers recounted the maiming and near murder of a jogger in Central Park and ultimately helped send five boys to prison for gang rape. More than a decade later, the official view of those words has taken a sharp turn, with new evidence leading authorities to reopen a chapter in New York history that seemed long closed. 1

Planners Vow Cooperation
Stung by criticism that interagency fights have slowed the pace of the rebuilding in Lower Manhattan, officials overseeing the planning are taking a new tack: acknowledging their previous disagreements while also promising that the effort will soon pick up speed. 49

Neediest Cases 52

OBITUARIES 58

Noel Regney
The co-writer of the song "Do You Hear What I Hear?" was 80. 58

Chess 57
Weather 59
TV Listings 57

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (86%); AIRLINES (83%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); ACQUITTAL (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); RELIGION (64%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (62%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PHILIPPINES (93%); AFRICA (93%); QATAR (92%); TURKEY (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); KENYA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (91%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



50 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Milford; 
Bill Clinton Slept Here. Even the Ice Cream Guy Remembers.

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL

 BODY:
JOHN AND AMY COTTER own a beach house in Milford, where Bill Clinton lived in 1970 and 1971 while he was a student at Yale Law School in New Haven. Therefore, their daughter Kaitlin likes to tell people that Bill Clinton slept in her room.
 Ms. Cotter is quick to add, however, that it happened years before the 19-year-old was even born. 
 The house, at 889 East Broadway, has recently been the focus of an effort by some local politicians and historians to commemorate the site's historical significance with a plaque or marker.
Coincidentally, Mr. Cotter's father, John J. Cotter, a lawyer from Fairfield, has a presidential connection, too; he is a friend of George H. W. Bush, whom Mr. Clinton defeated for the presidency in 1992.
In 1979, the elder Mr. Cotter held a campaign fund-raiser for Mr. Bush when he was seeking the Oval Office before being named as Ronald Reagan's vice presidential running mate, John Cotter said.
He added that he would not object to a plaque, although he said, "It would just be nice if some of the politicians who want to do this would contact us and find out how we feel about it.
"We don't want a big deal made out of it because we value our privacy and we already get plenty of crank calls, and people interested in seeing the house when they find out Clinton once lived here."
The family has lived in the house for seven years and was there during the sex scandal in Washington involving Mr. Clinton and Monica Lewinsky.
"It sure has been a great conversation piece, especially during the scandal, to be able to tell people he had lived here," Amy Cotter said. "Their first reaction was, 'You're kidding, right?' Then they always want to see his room."
The Cotters said the cozy upstairs bedroom has been used at one time or another by all five of their children. It is currently being occupied by Kaitlin, a student at Southern Connecticut State University, who is not much younger than Mr. Clinton was when he stayed there.
"Sometimes I think about it and it's kind of amazing to think a former president had the same room as me," she said. "Some of my friends don't believe me." 
The effort to place a plaque on the house is being led by Representative James A. Amann, a Milford Democrat who lived down the street from the beach house near Silver Sands State Park when Mr. Clinton lived there with three housemates.
"I think it's the least we can do because we know he lived there, and whatever people think of Bill Clinton, he is a former president who led this country through its greatest economic boon," Mr. Amann said.
Yet, some people are hesitant about honoring someone whose presidency was marred by a sex scandal.
"I'm certainly no fan of Bill Clinton after he disgraced the office of the presidency and it's not something I would do if it were my house," said Gerold Wonosky, a First District alderman and Republican. "But since it's not up to me, it's not something I'm going to object too, either."
Mr. Amann is determined to make sure a plaque goes up. He said he got the idea after talking to Mr. Clinton at a private fund-raiser in Enfield during the election season.
Mr. Amann said he was amazed by how much Mr. Clinton remembered about Milford and his "very fond" memories of living at the East Broadway beach house.
"He really remembered everything about it, even the exact address," said Mr. Amann, who was in high school at the time and lived only a block away. "I'm sure I passed Bill Clinton on the street a thousand times and didn't know it. Not every town can claim to have had a former president live there."
Mr. Clinton liked to frequent the now-defunct Pilgrim Barbecue restaurant in his neighborhood, Mr. Amann said.
"He said: 'I love Milford. It was a great place to live,' " Mr. Amann said.
Mr. Clinton lived in the house with two Yale classmates, Donald Pogue and Bill Coleman, and Doug Eakeley, an Oxford University friend.
"We called Clinton's part of East Broadway 'Keg Row,' because of the college kids and their wild parties," Mr. Amann said.
He said that during their talks, Mr. Clinton had even recalled buying ice cream almost daily from Ron Dunphy, a teenageice-cream truck driver, who is now a Milford Department of Public Works employee.
"He liked toasted almond and was a pretty funny guy, even back then," Mr. Dunphy, 49, said. "He was friendly and liked to joke around and talk, but of course there was no way I could know then that here was someone who be someday be president."
Richard Platt, the city historian, endorsed the idea to mark the structure, which was originally built as a beach house in 1910.
"After all, he did stay there and there is some historic significance because he later became president," he said. "I think it certainly can be added to our Milford list of historic sites."
Mr. Platt said some day the house could even become a national historic landmark.
"It sometimes takes a while for these things to happen, and the longer a president is out of office the more likely that is to happen," Mr. Platt said.
Mr. Amann and Mr. Platt both pointed out that highway signs mark New Haven as the birthplace of President George W. Bush.
Mayor James L. Richetelli Jr. said he would support the historic designation as long as the Cotters did, too.
"While I wouldn't favor any kind of monument or statue, I wouldn't object to a small plaque if the homeowners agree to it," he said. "As for the house someday becoming a national historic site, only time will judge whether or not Bill Clinton deserves the same recognition as George Washington."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The beach house in Milford, above, where President Bill Clinton lived while attending Yale Law School. There is a movement to mark his stay with a plaque or marker. Above left, Amy Cotter, one of the owners of the home, in Mr. Clinton's former bedroom, and, below, the porch. (Photographs by Debbi Morello for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); SCANDALS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (95%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



51 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Life at Pocantico Then and Now 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS STAUDTER

 BODY:
WITH the publication of "Memoirs" (Random House) in October, David Rockefeller has beaten his would-be biographers to the punch.
 The grandson of the oil magnate John D. Rockefeller and one of five brothers who grew up to oversee the family's financial and philanthropic interests, Mr. Rockefeller has had a substantial role in 20th-century events. Given his family's general reticence, he had much to tell. 
 David Rockefeller was born in 1915, the youngest child of John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller. After graduating from Harvard and receiving a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago, Mr. Rockefeller married Margaret McGrath, a Mount Kisco native, and then served in World War II as an Army intelligence officer. His entire business career was spent at Chase Manhattan Bank, where he rose to become chief executive officer and chairman. 
Mr. Rockefeller grew up in one of the several homes on his family's Pocantico Hills estate, and he still lives on the estate, but in a different house. "Memoirs," which took 10 years to complete, provides an intimate portrait of his family there. At one time the Rockefellers owned close to 4,000 acres; now all but 500 acres has been given to the state. Mr. Rockefeller's wife died in 1996. He is close to his six children and 10 grandchildren, many of whom were surprised by the book's candor, he said. 
Occupying his time these days is a project that will convert part of his working cattle farm, Hudson Pines, into an educational center. He recently sat for an interview in his Manhattan office, answering questions in his trademark polite and humble manner. 
Q. What has kept the Rockefeller family in Westchester for more than 100 years? 
A. The most important thing was that grandfather was able to find a sizable piece of beautiful property overlooking the Hudson, near where his brother William already lived Then he developed the property, had carriage roads and a golf course built, and made it attractive to us. It continues to give us all a great deal of pleasure. Of course, it's extraordinarily convenient to New York City. 
Q. Has the county's allure changed much over the years?
A. No. The more I visit friends on Long Island and in Connecticut, the happier I am that the family settled in Westchester. It has preserved a simplicity and lack of formality, and I find that appealing.
Q. What do you remember most about your grandfather?
A. I used to see him a lot; I was 21 when he died. He spent a lot of time during the spring and fall at Kykuit, and he encouraged me, and his other grandchildren as well, to come and see him; he was a loving and fun grandfather. He told amusing stories and sang little ditties; he gave us dimes. Since my other three grandparents all died about the year I was born, he was the only grandparent I knew.
Q. You collect beetles. What spurred your interest in entomology?
A. I got interested one summer in Maine through a class in nature studies given by a professor of biology from Tufts University. She had a course for young children, and Henry Ford II and I were two of her pupils. I continued my interest in it for years while I was at school, and often I'd go to the Museum of Natural History and work with the head beetle specialist there. I was able to spend two summers at an insect study station in Tuxedo Park, collecting insects and studying their habits. One experiment we set up tried to determine whether bees had a memory. 
Q. How many different species of beetles have you collected on your family's Westchester property?
A. I've been working on this lately and I'll soon be able to give you a specific answer. I probably have collected around 150,000 specimens of about 10,000 species, and even discovered some. 
Q. Of the thousands of acres your family has owned in Westchester, which places do you like the most?
A. Rockwood Hall, which belonged to my brother Laurance and was given to the state, is certainly a beautiful place. Buttermilk Hill would be another one of my favorite places. The carriage roads there, the earliest ones, were built by grandfather. 
Q. Whatever happened to the house you grew up in on the Pocantico estate, Abeyton Lodge?
A. It was torn down after World War II. Grandfather died in 1937, and not long before the war began mother and father moved to Kykuit. After the war it became apparent that none of the children wanted to live in Abeyton Lodge; it was very big and comfortable, but required a pretty big staff to run. All of us had our own homes, in Tarrytown and elsewhere, and we really wouldn't have wanted non-family members living inside the fence, so it seemed more logical to tear it down than just leave it there empty. I have happy memories of the house, but I don't believe in having places that lack utility and are expensive to maintain. It wasn't a great architectural monument and there was no reason to keep it that I could see.
Q. In thinking about the future of Westchester, is over-development a threat?
A. I'm concerned to the degree with which Westchester has just become a place for people who are working in New York City to spend the night. If you fly over the county in a helicopter, which I do quite frequently, you see there is very little land left that is still wooded. It's either dense clusters of houses -- and, of course, Yonkers is a city -- or just spotted with places where there's nothing but homes. That's one reason why the property in Pocantico Hills is so important: part of it is already a park and more of it will be. Hopefully development is slowing down in Westchester. It'll be interesting to see what happens with the General Motors property in Sleepy Hollow .
Q. Should the nuclear power plant at Indian Point be closed?
A. France depends almost entirely on nuclear energy, and as far as I know they've never had a problem with it. The bogey of this being a threat is not impressive. It's there, it's operating successfully and I don't see any reason to do away with it. Not all of my family agrees with me, however.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Rockefeller, a grandson of John D. Rockefeller, who lives on his family's Pocantico Hills estate. (Thomas Staudter for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); GOLF (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



52 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Nuisance to the Rich, Worse to the Poor

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; E-mail: anemona@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN its current issue, Business Week lists America's 50 most generous philanthropists. Bill and Melinda Gates rank No. 1, for supporting health and education; George Soros is No. 6, for promoting open and free societies. 
 Mayor Bloomberg made the top 50 on the Forbes list of richest Americans, at No. 29 this year. He has said he gave $122 million to charity last year. But perhaps through modesty, anonymity or the streak of secrecy that runs through his administration, he is nowhere on the list of most generous philanthropists. His press office says that he should be on the list and the omission is a mistake. (Unlike most public officials in New York, he chose to keep his tax returns secret.) 
 Whether Mr. Bloomberg belongs among the philanthropic top 50 or not, it is no surprise that Sandra Edwards, a bank clerk, did not make the list, no matter how much of her salary she gave to charity.
Now let's take that perspective and apply it to municipal government. For a billionaire, or even someone comfortably upper middle class, the new fees, fines and taxes the mayor is proposing to close the city budget gap are as annoying as gnats. A hundred dollars instead of $50 to play on city tennis courts? There's always Chelsea Piers or the Racquet Club instead. You'd almost think that Robert Moses, who built the parkway bridges to Jones Beach too low for buses carrying the common people to get through, had risen from the grave. 
A hundred and five dollars for double-parking? If you are a modestly priced lawyer, you can work it off in an hour or so. More likely, you will garage your car and forgo fattening the city coffers altogether. But if you are a nanny or a sales clerk making $10 an hour, that's a day's pay, or more. 
Not to second-guess the mayor, who obviously has a difficult job to do, but it seems worth looking at what such revenue enhancements mean in the daily lives of New Yorkers.
When fines become punitive, they are a nuisance to the rich and a tragedy to the poor. When fees cost more than the services they provide, they are a hidden tax. "The public services provided through fees tend to have less political clout than others, and lose out in a budget crisis," says Larry Littlefield, an economist who once worked for the city. 
The other day, I met a retired sanitation man who was distraught over a $105 parking ticket he received while taking his grandchildren to school. He had used his earnings to buy a building in Brooklyn, he said. Now he was so discouraged by city life that he was thinking of selling the building and buying a little house in Florida. To him, the $50 difference between the old $55 ticket and the new one, imposed Oct. 1, could hardly be more real. "That's $50 I could use to buy clothes for my grandchildren," he said.
Curious how others felt, I paid a visit to 66 John Street, the city office where people go to contest parking tickets. It is a cold place. Rows of chairs face monitors that tell you when your number is up. Not even a soap opera on TV breaks the monotony. None of the waiting New Yorkers looked visibly wealthy. Most looked depressed and angry. 
Ms. Edwards, 52, the bank clerk, got her $105 ticket while parked at a bus stop in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. She was sitting in the passenger seat while her husband dashed into a store. The officer wrote a ticket before she could shift to the driver's side. 
"My daughter is getting ready to go to college next year," Ms. Edwards said, and she has a teenage son coming up. Every dollar counts. What should a needy mayor do? Her car is essential, she said, but she would be willing to cut back on her wardrobe. "That sales tax that they took off of clothing?" she said. "They could put it back on."
After leaving 66 John Street, I found Dick Netzer, a professor of economics, at his desk at New York University. Mr. Netzer recently got a $105 ticket for parking 10 inches too close to a hydrant. On his block in Cobble Hill, he said, "there are sanitation tickets going out like crazy." 
He can afford to pay the new fines, and he contends that there are plenty of bargain-hunting New Yorkers who as a matter of civic duty should be paying higher tennis fees. But by raising fines and fees to a punitive degree, he said, what the city loses in civic morale may be more than it gains in dollars and cents.
"You get some more money out of it, but you also provoke people into thinking they're victimized," he said. "I think unfairness counts a lot in this."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PARKING OFFENSES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); BILL GATES (73%); MELINDA GATES (73%); GEORGE SOROS (72%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



53 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
A Scramble For Goodies Means They Will Go Fast

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
PERHAPS it was a coincidence, but the start of the holiday shopping season this weekend coincided with a growing sense among lawmakers and tax lobbyists here that Santa is indeed on his way.
 President Bush made it clear last week that he would unveil a new stimulus package by January, and some Republican lawmakers believe that a plan for more than $100 billion in tax cuts may surface before Christmas. 
 Some White House officials shy away from the word "stimulus," complaining that it sounds too much like Keynesian efforts for fine-tuning the economy. The goal, they say, is a "near-term growth plan." 
But for practical purposes, lawmakers and lobbyists are already assuming that $100 billion, and maybe $150 billion, is on the table. As big a bag of toys as that might buy, the wish lists competing for attention at the White House and on Capitol Hill would empty the bag quickly.
Anything that can plausibly be defined as a stimulus or near-term growth plan -- more generous tax write-offs for buying equipment or drilling for oil, a holiday on payroll taxes for low- and middle-income families, eliminating the double tax on corporate dividends -- potentially qualifies for inclusion.
Those definitions are already being stretched. President Bush's own top priority is to make last year's tax cuts permanent. That would lock in benefits like the repeal of the estate tax, the expansion of the Child Tax Benefit and relief from what is known as the marriage penalty for two-income couples.
One can argue that those measures would contribute to growth, but making them permanent would affect taxes only around 2010 or 2011. White House officials contend that the changes will contribute to growth by creating more certainty for taxpayers, but most experts say they believe the near-term impact would be limited or negligible.
All kinds of groups, meanwhile, are pitching their own ideas. The oil and gas industry wants more generous write-offs on refineries, gas distribution pipelines and costs of drilling and exploration. The provisions were part of the sweeping energy bill that failed to get through Congress this year.
Small businesses want provisions to double the amount spent on new equipment that they could write off as expenses rather than depreciate over several years.
The National Association of Manufacturers is pushing for a big extension and expansion of last year's special bonus for depreciation. That bonus allows companies to depreciate 30 percent more than they normally do in the first year for many kinds of equipment and factories. The manufacturers' group wants to increase the bonus to 60 percent and extend it for two more years.
Tax incentives can do much to stimulate investment in plants and equipment. But business groups have to compete for their tax breaks against those who want to reduce taxes for individuals.
White House officials have expressed interest in accelerating the tax cuts passed last year. The existing law would lower the main tax rates beginning in 2004, and advancing those reductions to next year would trim about $17 billion in revenue, according to the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute. Moving up rate cuts scheduled for 2006 could reduce revenue by $40 billion.
BUT even those numbers are small compared with others in Washington. White House officials would love to eliminate double taxation of corporate dividends, which are taxed as corporate profits and as income to shareholders.
Supporters argue that changing the tax on dividends would provide a huge boost to the stock market and to business as a whole. They also argue that the move would eliminate a huge bias under current tax law toward running up debt, because interest payments on corporate debt are deductible. But eliminating the double taxation of dividends could cost as much as $75 billion a year.
Even more costly is the idea of a six-month or one-year holiday from payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicaid. Supporters include liberal Democrats like Robert B. Reich, a labor secretary in the Clinton administration, and Republicans like Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico.
Advocates of a payroll tax cut say the benefits would flow to lower- and middle-income families, who need the extra money the most and are more likely than wealthy investors to spend it quickly. But the plan would be expensive. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that a six-month reprieve on payroll taxes for the first $10,000 in earnings would cost $125 billion.
At those rates, even a $100 billion stimulus package begins to look small. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); FAMILY (75%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); MARRIAGE (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



54 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2996 words

HEADLINE: Scholarly Mentor To Bush's Team 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
BY title, they are economic advisers to the president. By training, they are disciples of Marty. 
 Marty -- Martin S. Feldstein -- may well be the most influential economist in Washington, even though he has not worked there since 1984, when he returned to the Harvard faculty. 
 Lawrence B. Lindsey, President Bush's top economic official, once worked as Mr. Feldstein's top teaching assistant, overseeing the logistics of his big economics lecture to Harvard undergraduates. 
R. Glenn Hubbard, now chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, fed punch cards filled with data into an early computer to help Mr. Feldstein with his research.
In one of Mr. Hubbard's first classes as a graduate student at Harvard -- taught, of course, by Mr. Feldstein -- he sometimes sat with Richard H. Clarida, who now runs the economic policy division of the Treasury Department. 
Add Mr. Clarida's deputy and Mr. Hubbard's chief of staff, among others, and the Bush administration's economic team begins to look like a Feldstein alumni club.
"I don't think it's chance," Mr. Lindsey said. "I think it's Marty."
Almost two decades after the soft-spoken but hard-driving Mr. Feldstein ended a fractious stint in the Reagan administration, he has built an empire of influence that is probably unmatched in his field. Aside from his administration ties, he holds sway over many fellow economists as president of the nation's premier economic research organization, and thousands of Harvard students who have taken his, and only his, economics class during their Harvard years have gone on to become policy makers and corporate executives.
Mr. Feldstein's stature and his vigorous defense of Mr. Bush's economic policies have won him frequent mention as a possible candidate to succeed Alan Greenspan eventually as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Known for his wide-ranging research on taxes and government spending that examines the ways public policy affects people's behavior, Mr. Feldstein has helped shift the economic consensus to the right over the last three decades. As an adviser to Mr. Bush's 2000 campaign and a frequent contributor to op-ed pages, Mr. Feldstein provided much of the intellectual rationale for the tax cut last year. He continues to push for changes in the Social Security system that would include private investment accounts.
A slight, bookish man with a friendly manner, Mr. Feldstein has become a mentor even to many economists who think he exaggerates the effect of taxes. 
"His work was on the one hand on the cutting edge of research theory and on the other hand directly relevant to the policy of the day," said Lawrence H. Summers, the president of Harvard, another student of Mr. Feldstein and a Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. "That's why he drew so many graduate students to him."
Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studied with Mr. Feldstein and also worked in the Clinton administration's Treasury Department, added, "He has shown that taxes matter."
Since 1977, Mr. Feldstein has wielded academic power as the president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, an elite, nonpartisan group of about 500 economists best known as the body that decides when recessions begin and end. More important, it publishes research papers long before any academic journal does, determining which work is likely to receive wide attention. 
From his corner office at the bureau, above a Cambridge furniture store, Mr. Feldstein helps shape the public debate and determine the research priorities of other economists as he chooses the subjects of the bureau's books and conferences. Aside from traveling with his wife, Kathleen, who is also an economist, and spending time at their homes in the Boston suburbs, Cape Cod and Vermont, Mr. Feldstein is almost always at the bureau. 
When he is at Harvard, he shows a fondness for the classroom unusual for his rank. He still teaches that introductory economics class, the college's largest lecture. While the curriculum is by no means out of the mainstream, it does bear his conservative stamp.
"I think that is quite a remarkable number," he said during a lecture one recent Monday, using a laser pointer to direct attention to "43.65 percent" displayed on an enormous screen inside the steeply tiered Sanders Theater, just off Harvard Yard. The percentage signified the portion of every additional dollar earned by somebody making $35,000 a year that goes to paying taxes. 
"I find it quite strange that somebody at this relatively low income is paying about half of his income in taxes," he said in his clear, dry speaking style. "What high marginal tax rates do is distort behavior."
Except for a few beeps emanating from electronic devices, the class could have happened decades earlier. Mr. Feldstein himself took introductory economics in this theater as a freshman more than 40 years ago. At the time, he planned to follow the career path of his father, a lawyer, but was seduced by economics. 
Since then, he has joined a long line of Harvard professors who have broken out of the ivory tower and influenced policy. What sets him apart are the number of his proteges who have followed his path and the confluence of a group of them near the height of government about 25 years after they all studied in Cambridge.
"There was something in the air in those days," Mr. Clarida said of the late 1970's. Then, with the inflation and unemployment rates both hovering near 10 percent, and oil-producing countries squelching production, economists were forced to look for new answers.
"Marty was a real inspiration to us," said Mr. Clarida, who speaks to Mr. Feldstein about once a month. "When Glenn and I and others were there, Marty went from the halls of academia to the pinnacles of economic advising."
The crimson hue of Mr. Bush's economic team and the prominence of Mr. Feldstein also suggest that Harvard's reputation as a training ground only for Democratic administrations needs updating.
Fourteen years ago, George H. W. Bush teased his opponent in the presidential campaign, Michael S. Dukakis, a graduate of the university's law school, for having opinions "born in Harvard Yard's boutique." Today, another Republican president named Bush is relying on advisers who learned their trade in the very same Harvard quadrangle.
"The Kremlin on the Charles doesn't seem to be true anymore," Mr. Feldstein said.
MR. FELDSTEIN'S life's work began in what amounts to enemy territory for a free-market economist: Britain's government-run hospitals. 
After graduating from Harvard College, he won a Fulbright scholarship to study at Oxford University and ended up staying six years. Armed with the new power of computers, which then filled entire rooms, he wrote his dissertation on the ways that hospital spending affected health care.
"I felt I was the kid in the candy store," he said. "Imagine, you're a 24-year-old, a 25-year-old, and you've got these new tools."
He showed British government officials how different levels of financing affected doctors' decisions, he recalled, "and they would say: 'Oh my God. I had no idea.' "
Back at Harvard as a young professor, he expanded his research. He has long argued that Social Security causes people to save less money than they should, although a technical error in an old paper undermined some of his arguments. He corrected the mistake, calling it insignificant, but many economists say he did not take the matter seriously enough and call it the worst moment in his career. He has also said that unemployment benefits keep joblessness higher than it otherwise would be and that taxes often cause people and companies to act in inefficient ways.
"He is basically the father of supply-side economics -- not the Laffer curve, the stupid side of supply-side economics," said Mr. Gruber, referring to a graph purporting to show that tax cuts can pay for themselves. 
Mr. Feldstein's writings in policy journals during the 1970's began to attract the attention of other free-market fans. Mr. Hubbard, for example, as an engineering student at the University of Central Florida, read Mr. Feldstein's work and made a decision that was then unusual: he chose Harvard over M.I.T. "The more I was familiar with what Marty was doing, the more I wanted to go to Harvard," Mr. Hubbard said.
Mr. Feldstein also became a regular at Capitol Hill hearings, and in 1978, one Republican Congressman invited him to Kennebunkport, Me. There, he met the elder George Bush, who was starting to plan his first presidential run.
"I spent some time one on one with Bush to make sure he understood economics better," Mr. Feldstein said, building up to a typically self-deprecating comment for an economist. "Whether he would have been better served spending that time campaigning, I don't know."
Although Mr. Bush lost the 1980 nomination to Mr. Reagan, Mr. Feldstein had made enough friends to be named the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. He hired both Mr. Lindsey and Mr. Lindsey's new wife, Susan, for the council's staff and tried to convince them to start work the Monday after their wedding. They took a weeklong honeymoon instead.
The council employs members of both political parties, and Mr. Feldstein also hired two economists who would become prominent Democrats: Paul Krugman, who now teaches at Princeton and is a columnist for The New York Times who often criticizes the Bush administration, and Mr. Summers. 
"The great hidden secret of his career," Mr. Feldstein said of Mr. Summers, "is that he began life in the Reagan administration."
Mr. Feldstein's two years in Washington made him famous and won him wide respect as a teller of uncomfortable truths, but his term was hardly a political success. While other Reagan aides argued for ever more tax cuts and military spending, Mr. Feldstein warned of the dangers of looming budget deficits and became something of a persona non grata in the West Wing. During one press briefing, Larry Speakes, a spokesman for the president, alternated between pronouncing Mr. Feldstein's name accurately (Feld-stine) and inaccurately (Feld-steen), in a move widely seen as an attempt to belittle him.
The experience appears to have affected both Mr. Feldstein and his disciples. Mr. Clarida, Mr. Hubbard and Mr. Lindsey all say they talk to him often, but none remembered asking his advice about working in Washington.
For his part, Mr. Feldstein has shown little taste since the 1980's for straying from the Republican Party line. In 1992, he predicted that the Clinton administration's tax increase would stifle economic growth and do little to erase the deficit. An article he wrote for The Wall Street Journal in 2000 was headlined "Bush's Tax Plan Is Even Better Than the Campaign Says." (Mr. Feldstein helped create the plan.) In 2001, when President Bush was forming his cabinet, Mr. Feldstein and his wife began a Boston Globe article by writing, "Paul O'Neill was an inspired choice for secretary of the Treasury." Mr. Feldstein is also on the board of Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical company with strong Republican ties.
In many ways, Mr. Feldstein has cultivated two different public personas: political fighter and academic sage. At the center of his academic life, the National Bureau of Economic Research, he emphasizes the less partisan part of his political past by hanging framed editorial cartoons that depict his battles within the Reagan administration.
Mr. Feldstein has run the bureau since 1977, except for the two years he spent in Washington. Regardless of their politics, economists credit him with building the bureau from a small institution with a few dozen researchers to a center of intellectual firepower that stands apart from any single university.
"There's been enormous speculation about the post-Greenspan Fed," said Alan B. Krueger, a former Feldstein student who worked in the Clinton administration and now teaches at Princeton. "Of more importance to the economics profession is the post-Feldstein N.B.E.R."
Mr. Gruber, the M.I.T. professor, put it this way: "My guess is that except for one or two journals, people see my articles more often as N.B.E.R. working papers. Now, it's not as prestigious on my vitae. But what do I care? I have tenure. What I care is that people see my research."
The bureau's three floors resemble a small business, with people in their 20's and 30's sitting in paper-filled cubicles and photographs of new arrivals taped to a door. Graduate students from Harvard and M.I.T. often come to the office in the afternoon, after their teaching duties are done, and stay well into the night. Mr. Feldstein sometimes joins them.
"I have a Harvard office, but I hardly ever, ever use it," he said, sitting in a bureau conference room beneath the wall of framed cartoons. 
As Mr. Clarida said, "Nobody gets very involved in the bureau without Marty wanting it to happen." 
ECONOMISTS on left and right say Mr. Feldstein selects the bureau's researchers without regard to their politics. If he has a weakness, they add, it is for economists at elite universities. 
"He's very supportive of people who disagree with him ideologically, of people who are to the left of him," said Robert B. Reich, a labor secretary during Bill Clinton's tenure and a former Harvard professor. "Basically, he's an honest intellectual."
One of the bureau's few political controversies involves Mr. Feldstein's choice of the few articles highlighted in the bureau's monthly digest and that then appear regularly in the mass media. 
Some moderates and liberals -- who refused to be quoted by name, noting that they are affiliated researchers -- said they saw a clear preference for conservative-leaning papers. The November digest, for example, summarizes a study arguing that inequality is less severe than it sometimes seems and another documenting a benefit of a flat tax.
Mr. Feldstein said he selected studies only with an eye toward what a large audience would find interesting. His teaching philosophy is similar, he says: "This course tries hard not to be conservative."
Mr. Summers is among the Democrats who deliver guest lectures, and Mr. Feldstein is careful to point out to students the differences between what he considers political choices and economic laws.
Still, Ec10, as it is known at Harvard, is hardly neutral -- in its readings or its lectures -- and its point of view contributes a good deal to his importance. Over the last two decades, thousands of Harvard undergraduates have received a decidedly anti-tax, free-market-leaning introduction to economics.
In a recent lecture on taxes, Mr. Feldstein stood almost motionless at the center of the same stage used by Winston Churchill and Martin Luther King Jr. and led the class through a discussion of the costs of high taxes. 
Taxes, he said, cause people to spend large sums on housing and to place an unnaturally high value on company benefits, because both offer tax advantages, he said.
"I wish I could give this part of the lecture to the United States Congress," he told students.
Mr. Feldstein likes to think of the class's impact in intellectual rather than political terms: it teaches students to think like economists, he says. But he understands the effect it can have on students, nonetheless.
"I really like it; I've been doing it for 18 years," he said. "I think it changes the way they see the world."

Martin Stuart Feldstein

BORN -- Nov. 25, 1939, New York.
HOMETOWN -- Belmont, Mass.
EDUCATION -- A.B., Harvard College, 1961; B. Litt., Oxford University, 1963; M.A., Oxford, 1964; D. Phil., Oxford, 1967.
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS -- Professor of economics, Harvard, 1969-present (began as assistant professor, 1967); president, National Bureau of Economic Research, 1977-82, 1984-present; chairman, Council of Economic Advisers, 1982-84; president-elect, American Economic Association, 2003; author of more than 300 scientific papers and several books.
CORPORATE BOARDS -- American International Group, Eli Lilly, HCA, TRW.
FAMILY -- Wife, Kathleen Feldstein; two daughters.
HOBBY -- Travel

Orbit of Influence
Some prominent economic figures who were students of Martin S. Feldstein at Harvard or who worked with him there.

Alan J. Auerbach -- Director of the Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public Finance at the University of California at Berkeley. Was the deputy chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation in 1992.

Richard H. Clarida -- Assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department and a professor at Columbia University.

Douglas W. Elmendorf -- Vice chariman of the Federal Reserve Board. Worked for the White House Council of Economic Advisers and was deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury during the Clinton administration.

Roger W. Ferguson Jr. -- Vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Was a partner at McKinsey & Company.

Jonathan Gruber -- Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Was deputy assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department during the Clinton administration.

R. Glenn Hubbard -- Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.

Alan B. Krueger -- Professor at Princeton University. Was chief economist of the Labor Department for two years during the Clinton administration.

Jeffrey B. Liebman -- Professor at Harvard. Was a special assistant to the president on the National Economic Council during the Clinton administration.

Lawrence B. Lindsey -- Assistant to the president for economic policy
and director of the National Economic Council.

Alicia H. Munnell -- Professor at Boston College. Was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers and assistant secretary of the Treasury for economic policy during the Clinton administration.

Lawrence H. Summers -- President of Harvard. Was Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration.

Mark J. Warshawsky -- Deputy assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy. Was director of research at the TIAA-CREF Institute.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a chart last Sunday with an article about Martin S. Feldstein and his influence on economic policy through his teaching at Harvard misstated the current job of Douglas W. Elmendorf, who was both a student and a colleague there. He is chief of the macroeconomic analysis section at the Federal Reserve Board, not vice chairman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin S. Feldstein has not had an official Washington role since the Reagan administration. (C. J. Gunther)(pg. 1); Martin S. Feldstein, right, prepared to testify on the Reagan administration's 1985 budget before a House committee along with David Stockman, left, the budget director, and Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan. (Associated Press, 1984)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); TRENDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); TAX LAW (61%); ALUMNI (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%) FELDSTEIN, MARTIN S. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



55 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Does Bush Have a Mandate on Social Security, Too?

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AN early test of whether President Bush views the Republican victories in the elections last month as a mandate for a bold, conservative agenda will be his decision on whether to press vigorously next year for legislation allowing workers to divert a portion of their Social Security taxes into private investment accounts.
 The White House is sending mixed signals about what he might do. But people close to Mr. Bush say he was encouraged that many Republicans who won tough races for the Senate and House on Nov. 5 defended, in the face of ferocious Democratic attacks, the principle of allowing workers to invest a share of their payroll taxes in the financial markets. 
 The consensus in political circles is that making fundamental changes in Social Security is such a monumental task that it can only be accomplished if the president throws all his weight behind the effort.
Republicans have long dreamed of making Social Security, the government's largest and probably most popular program, more like a private pension system. But the landscape is strewn with those who have fallen after stepping on this third rail of American politics. 
Some think that changed this year, when a number of Republican Senate and House candidates won despite being charged by their Democratic opponents with wanting to turn over workers' hard-earned payroll taxes to Wall Street sharpies. Those elected to the Senate included Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, Norm Coleman of Minnesota, John Cornyn of Texas, Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and John E. Sununu of New Hampshire. 
Some Republican strategists like former Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, an influential lobbyist, argue that these victories showed that the public is ready for radical changes in Social Security and that Republicans should seize the day. 
Others, like Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, a leading Senate authority on Social Security, say the President would face certain defeat if he pushed the issue this year. 
"For a Republican president without across-the-aisle leadership, this would be extremely destructive," Mr. Gregg said, referring to the lack of Democratic support.
It is hard to overestimate the magnitude of the challenge of making sweeping changes in Social Security, changes that would affect nearly all Americans. In the last 30 years, only two other presidential initiatives have had comparable scope: Ronald Reagan's successful drive to rewrite the income tax system and Bill Clinton's abortive attempt to make health insurance universal. 
If Mr. Bush has decided whether or not to push the issue next year, he has not told anyone outside his inner circle. R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said his staff was not examining specific Social Security alternatives because it was "premature to do much more unless and until the president wants us to."
Ari Fleischer, the president's press secretary, said Mr. Bush "remains committed to changes in Social Security." But Mr. Fleischer added: "He's reviewing what the right time is. He's a realist. He wants to move forward in a way that will get the job done right."
No one doubts President Bush's commitment. On Nov. 7 in his post-election news conference, the president said, "I still strongly believe that the best way to achieve security in Social Security for younger workers is to give them the option of managing their own money through a personal savings account."
Three days later, on "Meet the Press," Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, suggested the time was not ripe. 
"It's important we have a debate about Social Security," he said. "I'm not sure it can happen next year." But before the sun set that day, White House staff members were on the telephone assuring lawmakers and leaders of conservative organizations that Mr. Card had misspoken and that no decision had been made about timing.
IN an interview last week, Tom Ridge, the secretary-designate of the Homeland Security Department and a political confidant of the president, said he expected Mr. Bush to take the risk. 
"I know the president is a very determined man and a very principled man," Mr. Ridge said, "and I know the president believes there's not a snowball's chance in hell that Social Security is going to be around in 50 years if we don't do something."
The answer may not come until the president's State of the Union address in January.
Democrats say they relish the fight and hope Mr. Ridge is right. 
"If they bring it up, they will stumble with it and it will help us win back Congress in 2004," said Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, the top Democrat on the Social Security subcommittee. "The reason they avoided the silver bullet this year is that they misled the public." 
Mr. Matsui is right that in the campaigns this year, Republicans bobbed and weaved about the unpleasant aspects of introducing private investment accounts into the Social Security system. They banished the word "privatization" from their vocabularies.
They insisted that no one's retirement benefits would ever drop, as if financial markets would always go up. Most important, they never mentioned that the changes they advocate would cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars in the first 10 years alone, because the government would need to continue to write checks to retirees while some of workers' taxes that would otherwise be used for benefits was going into investment accounts. This money could only come from higher taxes, lower benefits, a huge amount of government borrowing or deep cuts in other popular government programs. 
But Democrats were also evasive during the campaign when they implied that big changes in Social Security were unnecessary. During the lifetime of most of today's workers the system will begin running out of money, as more and more baby boomers retire and the ratio shrinks between workers paying taxes and retirees receiving monthly checks. The retirement benefits being promised today cannot be paid. The only solutions are the very ones faced by those who want private accounts: higher taxes, lower benefits, more borrowing or cuts in popular programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INCOME TAX (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



56 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: What Kind of Businessman Raises Your Taxes?; 
A Realistic One, Bloomberg Attests, if He's Running New York

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg came into office preaching hard-nosed fiscal prudence. He would be a self-financed nonpolitician whose independence from special interest groups would let him apply strong medicine to the city's fiscal ills, and damn the political consequences.
 But now the dust has settled on Mr. Bloomberg's first austerity plan, and it looks more like a conventional politician's approach to budget cutting than that of a bottom-line businessman's. The plans to plug a $1 billion gap this fiscal year and a $6 billion hole next year call for roughly $3 in tax increases to every $2 in budget cuts, anathema to many people in business who believe that higher taxes will drive businesses and families from the city, or who at least want to see the mix of taxes and cuts reversed. 
 Mr. Bloomberg is seeking to tax commuters at the same rates city residents would pay, in addition to the 18.5 percent property tax rate increase imposed on city residents last week. And most of the cuts in the city's current budget will not affect city services, but will instead be one-time savings on things like heat, light, power and debt service. 
In negotiating union contracts, Mr. Bloomberg has extracted few of the kinds of productivity enhancements private-sector employers demand during hard times, and the mayor offered one group, teachers, a handsome raise. Layoffs, he has insisted, should be a last resort. 
Further, Mr. Bloomberg's budget calls for substantial help from Albany and Washington, a classic tactic that more often than not is rejected, especially when the state and federal government have their own deficits. It was that type of predictive budgeting that led Standard & Poor's to change the city's credit outlook to "negative" from "stable," last week.
And in exchange for the tax increase, Mr. Bloomberg allowed the City Council to protect the classic sacred cows of every municipal budget fight, like firehouses, centers for the elderly and day care slots.
"Somebody who was electing a businessman did not sign on for the biggest tax increase in 30 years," said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative group. "And I don't think you would find a businessperson or even an economist who would agree with Bloomberg that tax increases will have no effect on the city. This budget is indistinguishable from a guy who does owe things to everybody."
Indeed, the current budget modification, which takes the city to July 1, appears to belong as much to the overwhelmingly Democratic City Council as it does to Mr. Bloomberg, and is hard to distinguish from many of this Republican mayor's predecessors.
"I would have done exactly what he did," said former Mayor Edward I. Koch. "There is no other way to balance a budget other than to cut expenses and increase revenues. This deficit was handed to him by Giuliani, and I think the mix is what you would have expected for this reason."
And there may be another reason. Although Mr. Bloomberg spent his entire career in the private sector, it was never his style, even during rough patches, to apply the traditional corporate method of slashing costs and eliminating jobs. Mr. Bloomberg, whose company's success was based principally on service, appears constitutionally opposed to cutting back, even on programs that benefit just a few.
"He is not a guy out of corporate," said Kathryn Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, a business group. "Most people who know him and know his career know that it is going to be difficult for him to think of retrenchment, because he is an entrepreneurial growth guy. He believes service is the way to build a business, and to build a brand."
Mr. Bloomberg did apply some private-sector approaches to this budget. He conducted his negotiations as secretly as possible, and introduced both tax ideas at the last minute, pushing the property tax increase through the City Council in record time, with almost no public discourse. "The Bloomberg opponents got one day to scream and yell and at the end of the day it had to be done and it was done bloodlessly," said Bruce C. Ratner, the president of Forest City Ratner Companies, a real estate development company. The plan to tax commuters needs Albany's approval, which looks doubtful.
The mayor's press secretary, Edward Skyler, rejects the idea that Mr. Bloomberg's budget does not reflect a tough businessman at the helm, arguing that raising fees and taking the police force to its lowest levels in years (primarily though attrition) reflect a budget free of partisan ideology.
"I don't think you'd find many people willing to ask the police and fire commissioners to cut their budgets in the wake of 9/11," Mr. Skyler said. "But he has, and he got real savings from that. I don't think you're ever going to find a mayor who wants to cut the Department of the Aging, but he found savings there. Most mayors would not want to ask the Parks Department to raise its fees or the Finance Department to double the fine of a parking ticket. He has taken action after action that he knows will be unpopular but that he knows has to be done."
New York's business community has three basic segments. There are the small business owners and the heads of major corporations, many of whom have been delighted by the increased attention they have gotten from City Hall under the Bloomberg administration. 
Then there are the real estate leaders, who enjoyed years of close relations with City Hall and gobs of tax breaks, ostensibly to keep their tenants in the city. They are now fuming that they were not properly consulted about tax increases. "I can't tell you that I am happy with his fiscal policies," said Stephen B. Siegel, chief executive officer of Insignia/ESG, a real estate brokerage firm. "Some of his proposals like that tax will positively damage our business."
Mr. Siegel said he voted for Mr. Bloomberg, but had he anticipated a property tax increase, "I would have given it more consideration." 
Unlike his situation in business, Mr. Bloomberg is hemmed in by many state and federal requirements that account for well over half of the city's budget. Further, the city is a virtual slave to Wall Street, whose fortunes tend to determine those of the city. 
And antipolitician though the mayor may be, he has no choice but to work with people in the city and state governments who are looking ahead to their next terms. The thought has been widely expressed that Mr. Bloomberg, who now says he did not talk about taxes last year because the city was too vulnerable after the terrorist attacks, was keeping the matter under wraps while Gov. George E. Pataki wrapped up his own re-election campaign.
This theme of businessman versus the political system is likely to define the next three years of Mr. Bloomberg's mayoralty. "You learn in government that you are moving a supertanker, not a dinghy," said Peter J. Solomon, who runs his own investment banking firm and is well known on Wall Street. "Municipal government does not control its revenue or most of its expenses, because so many are mandated by other governments or collective-bargaining agreements. Gaining control takes much longer."
But Mr. Bloomberg has made it clear that he thinks quality-of-life improvements like safe subways, clean streets and an absence of visible homelessness are ultimately more important to business leaders than low taxes.
"Normally you would think a businessman would cut expenses more than taxes," said Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier who helped lead the city through the 1970's. "But he came to his own conclusion as to what is more bearable to a city, especially in terms of safety, education and cleanliness, and believes that tax increases, although difficult, are bearable. I believe he is perfectly honest in believing that these are the priorities, and he will set them as he sees most appropriate and bear the consequences."
Many business executives appear to agree. "I know what he is saying is true, because I was here in the 70's when every day every other car was broken into," Mr. Ratner said. "There is nothing worse."
It seems likely that Mr. Bloomberg will be able to maintain the support of his many private sector pals -- many of whom he has shared years of friendship or business relationships -- for now. But if a property tax increase begets a personal income tax increase -- especially to plug a hole left by an unfulfilled commuter tax wish -- that support is likely to dissipate. 
"There's a general feeling that he did what was necessary," Ms. Wylde of the Partnership said about her members. "At this point they are taking him at his word that he is going to keep the city competitive from a service and tax standpoint. Some are a little horrified when he is making the comment that no one leaves over high taxes. They know that he knows there is a threshold."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's budget philosophy referred imprecisely to spending reductions adopted last month. They included cuts to city services, for recurring savings. They were not mostly one-time cuts to spending on items like heat, light and power.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg explained his budget, which called for a higher real estate tax and a commuter tax, last month. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); LAYOFFS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (65%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



57 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ASIAN ARENA; 
U.S. and Philippines May Start New Training Mission

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT with CARLOS H. CONDE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
The United States and the Philippines may soon start a new military training operation against Muslim extremists in the southern Philippines that would involve 300 to 400 American troops, including many on jungle combat patrols in a risky hunt for a resurgent guerrilla force, military officials say.
 The proposed exercise, which could begin as soon as January, reflects the Pentagon's growing concern that militant Islamic networks pose an increasing threat to Americans and American interests in Southeast Asia, and that a training mission with Philippine forces earlier this year failed to quell the Muslim guerrilla movement. 
 The new operation would be an increase in the Pentagon's commitment to combating terrorism in the Philippines by shifting hundreds of troops now scheduled for classroom or routine training in the northern Philippines to a combat zone in the south. The exercise would involve American Special Forces, as well as Army and Marine forces, over much of next year, officials said.
No decisions have been made yet on the proposal, officials said, but Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has directed the military's Pacific Command and Joint Staff to draw up plans for a sequel to the counterterrorism training mission that American forces carried out on Basilan Island in the southern Philippines earlier this year. 
Adm. Thomas B. Fargo, commander of American forces in the Pacific, is scheduled to meet with Mr. Rumsfeld in Washington in the next few days, and officials said they were likely to discuss details of the proposed mission.
President Bush has personally been following developments in the Philippines, administration officials said. Mr. Bush spoke to President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Mexico in late October, and spoke again by telephone two weeks ago with President Arroyo about terrorism issues, a White House official said.
About 1,300 American troops, including 160 Special Forces soldiers, completed the six-month mission on Basilan at the end of July. Those exercises were intended to wipe out Abu Sayyaf, a small band of Islamic radicals who have seized and beheaded American hostages.
But only one principal Abu Sayyaf leader was killed during that operation, and the group's other leaders have reorganized in Sulu Province, principally on Jolo Island. While the American-led mission effectively drove Abu Sayyaf from Basilan and parts of southern Mindanao, the American-trained Philippine forces have not sustained the momentum. Abu Sayyaf has been tied to a string of recent bombings in the southern Philippines, including an explosion last month that killed an American Green Beret, Pentagon officials said.
About 275 American troops have remained in the southern Philippines to help share intelligence information with Philippine forces and coordinate a long-term security assistance and counterterrorism program that is scheduled to begin in January on the northern island of Luzon.
But now the Pentagon is weighing whether to conduct some of that training on or near Jolo. That would make the exercises akin to combat operations and put American trainers that might accompany their Philippine soldiers on patrols at much greater risk. 
Under the plans being discussed, 150 to 175 additional American troops, mainly Special Forces soldiers, would join the American forces already in the southern Philippines in the first training mission, military officials said.
Other exercises later in the year, involving Army and Marine forces, would also deploy American troops and equipment to the south to expand and diversify the training.
"The Philippine military has asked to extend the Basilan model to Jolo," said one senior American military official. "While we've neutralized Basilan as an operating area for them, their leadership has pretty much relocated to Jolo."
But as with previous training missions, Filipino officials continue to seek assurances that Americans will not engage in combat while advising Filipino troops because the Philippine Constitution prohibits using foreign troops for combat. Even so, American troops are under orders to fire in self-defense, and the rules for this proposed mission near Jolo would be no different.
The Bush administration has declared Abu Sayyaf a terrorist organization. A decade ago, when the group was founded with a goal to create an Islamic state, Osama bin Laden sent a brother-in-law to coordinate with the group. He provided money and sought to arrange a merger between Abu Sayyaf and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, a much larger and more powerful group in the Philippines.
American and Philippine intelligence officials have said the relationship never developed and Abu Sayyaf degenerated into thugs who kidnapped for ransoms.
Some American officials believe that in recent months, Abu Sayyaf has established connections with Jemaah Islamiyah, a radical Islamic network that seeks establishment of an Islamic state across Southeast Asia. The network is based in Indonesia, and its spiritual leader is Abu Bakar Bashir, who is now in custody in Indonesia.
Jemaah Islamiyah has been declared a terrorist organization by the United States and the United Nations. It has been linked to several terrorist attacks, including one in Bali last month that killed more than 180 tourists, according to Indonesia and Western intelligence officials.
"We are pulling a lot of strings on the J. I. piece," said the senior American military official. "We still don't have clarity on that."
A Pentagon official concurred: "We're watching the connections very closely to determine whether they are institutional, personal or what. I don't think we have anything definitive. Is this just family connections helping each other out or a conscious, directed effort to combine and use each other's efforts?"
A senior Philippine intelligence officials said his agency "does not have concrete evidence of any new linkages" between Abu Sayyaf and Al Qaeda. Last month, an Abu Sayyaf member was picked up in Thailand while trying to buy weapons.
American officials said that Philippine intelligence analysts had "connected the dots sooner than we have" on the possible Jemaah Islamiyah-Philippine connection, but added that American officials were treading cautiously.
Philippine officials have long advocated expanding the operational training to Jolo. But they say American officials initially were reluctant, given higher priorities against terrorist threats in countries like Yemen, and with American forces preparing for a possible war with Iraq.
"We felt that the success in Basilan should be replicated in Jolo," said Maj. Gen. Emmanuel Teodosio, the director of the Philippine side of the Basilan exercise.
The Pentagon's attitude shifted markedly after a series of bombings in the Philippines, especially the blast that killed Sgt. First Class Mark Wayne Jackson in Zamboanga last month, seemed to signal a troubling confluence of terrorist organizations in the country.
"Abu Sayyaf probably doesn't have network to carry out bombings throughout the archipelago, so they need the support of like-minded people," said the senior American military official. 
"Increasingly, it's thought that Abu Sayyaf, J. I. and other Muslim separatists were responsible" for the bombing that killed Sergeant Jackson, the official continued.
The United States Navy continues to fly regular P-3 reconnaissance missions over the Sulu Archipelago to provide badly needed intelligence to Philippine Army forces battling about 250 Abu Sayyaf rebels there in rugged, jungle fighting.
Pentagon officials said the options under consideration would not increase the overall projected American military presence in the Philippines or prompt the Philippine Senate to revisit conditions under which American forces can operate.
"The thinking here and at the State Department is that anything that goes beyond the Basilan model could be reason to trigger a new round of political debate in the Philippines," said the senior American military official.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Capt. John Vazquez, left, of the United States Marine Corps, conferred with his Philippine counterpart, Lt. Jorge Garcia, during a joint exercise in October in the Philippines that focused on countering terrorism. (Associated Press) Map of the Philippines highlighting Jolo Island: Leaders of the group Abu Sayyaf have reorganized on Jolo Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY TRAINING (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); RELIGION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ABU SAYYAF GROUP (84%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (59%) ABU SAYYAF 

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%) SCHMITT, ERIC; CONDE, CARLOS H 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (98%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) PHILIPPINES; BASILAN (PHILIPPINES); SULU PROVINCE (PHILIPPINES); JOLO ISLAND (PHILIPPINES)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002 



58 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Two Countries and One Continent's Future 

BYLINE:  By Philip H. Gordon and Henri J. Barkey; Philip H. Gordon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former director for European affairs at the National Security Council. Henri J. Barkey is a professor of international relations at Lehigh University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On Dec. 12 and 13 in Copenhagen, leaders of the European Union are set to announce the historic enlargement of the union, welcoming 10 central and eastern European members. Coming in the wake of NATO's decision to expand its own membership to the new democracies of the East, the European Union announcement will be rightly seen as a momentous further step toward the consolidation of European stability, democracy and peace.
 As Europeans bring some 75 million new members into their club, however, the celebration risks being undermined by the status of one country where fewer than one million of them live -- the divided island of Cyprus. For the past year, European Union leaders have made it clear that even if the Greek and Turkish communities on the island failed to reach a political settlement to their 28-year-old division, Cyprus would accede to the union anyway. Since the European Union recognizes only one Cyprus, this would technically mean entry of the entire island, including the Turkish-Cypriot inhabited north. But because the union would have no means of applying its laws in the Turkish area -- currently protected by some 30,000 Turkish troops -- as a practical matter admission will mean that only the already much richer Greek Cypriots would join the union, with the Turkish Cypriots condemned to further political and economic isolation. It would also mean incorporating the Greco-Turkish dispute, and the militarized border dividing Cyprus, into the European Union. 
 Cyprus' entering the union without a settlement between the Greek and Turkish communities would be considered by the Turks to be a slap in the face. It would be seen as an insulting rejoinder to their recent election of a moderate Islamic government -- one that has made a priority of better relations with Europe and pledged far-reaching political reform, in part to bolster the case for Turkey's own membership in the European Union. Finally, it would send a terrible message to the Islamic world, which is watching with great interest how the new government in Ankara is received internationally.
But any thoughts that the whole problem could be avoided by dropping Cyprus from the accession list are unrealistic: Greece has vowed to retaliate by blocking the accession of the other nine candidates, creating a different sort of disaster for Europe. This threat from Greece would almost certainly be carried out.
Still, this crisis can be averted, and while the United States does not have a formal seat at the table, its influence with all the main parties could prove decisive.
The first step would be a political deal on Cyprus, the prospects for which now seem better than they have for decades. Last month, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations put forward a comprehensive, 128-page plan for a new Cypriot federation. The proposal gives the Greek Cypriots the unified Cyprus they demand, recognition of a right to return to their lost homes in the north and the return of territory lost in 1974 when the island was violently divided. But to reassure the Turkish side that Turkish Cypriots would never again be dominated by the majority Greeks, the plan includes layers of protection: equal status within the federation; the maintenance of Turkish troops on the island; a rotating presidency; the ability to block sensitive legislation; and, by giving priority to compensation for lost property (rather than restitution) and allowing each community to limit migration to the other's territory, reassurance that northern Cyprus will remain largely Turkish.
The Greek Cypriot leadership has accepted the plan in principle, but the Turkish Cypriot leader, Rauf Denktash, is dragging his feet, against the apparent wishes of much of the Turkish Cypriot population. The Bush administration should make it clear to Ankara that the current Cyprus proposal is the best they are ever likely to see and that the opportunity to accept it should not be missed. Whereas the previous Turkish prime minister, Bulent Ecevit, who had ordered the intervention in Cyprus in 1974, was dead set against compromise, the new Turkish government may well be more receptive, not least because of its own desire to bring Turkey into the European Union. The United Nations' plan to allow a Turkish military presence on the island should reassure the powerful military's general staff that Turkey's strategic interests would not be harmed by a deal.
Ultimately, all these questions are linked to that of Turkey's own membership in the European Union. After finally being accepted as a candidate in late 1999, Turkey has worked hard to meet the union's criteria for membership, most notably with the passage of a major domestic reform package last August that abolished the death penalty, expanded human and minority rights, and allowed for the teaching and broadcasting of the Kurdish language. Still, the union remains reluctant about Turkey, with many Europeans arguing that the reforms, while highly positive, do not go far enough and that the union cannot be expected to absorb nearly 70 million relatively low-income citizens just after allowing in 75 million others in this round.
A deal that allows entry to Cyprus, however, would make it hard for the European Union to reject Turkey. Indeed, the broad condemnation in Europe of the comments of Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president, that Turkish entry would mean "the end of the European Union" (even the Greek leadership distanced itself from his statement) suggests that many Europeans understand the importance of keeping Turkey's membership aspirations alive and its reform process on track.
The next two weeks offer the greatest opportunity in decades to finally solve the Cyprus problem and set Turkey firmly on a European path.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Sloan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); RELIGION (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%) ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GORDON, PHILIP H; BARKEY, HENRI J 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) CYPRUS (98%); TURKEY (95%); EUROPE (94%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%) EUROPE; CYPRUS; TURKEY; GREECE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



59 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Japan's Cellphone Giant Casts a Paler Shadow

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
On the face of it, Keiji Tachikawa should have been crowing.
 As competitors around the globe struggle to survive, Mr. Tachikawa, the president of NTT DoCoMo, was telling reporters how his company earned a profit in the six months through September. Sales were up, and DoCoMo, Japan's largest mobile phone carrier and second-largest company over all, said it expected to earn $1.5 billion for the full year. 
 But Mr. Tachikawa's presentation on Nov. 7 was noticeably on edge, and for good reason. Three years after its i-mode Internet-enabled phones took the telecommunications industry by storm, DoCoMo is looking more and more like an ordinary company. Profit fell 95 percent from the comparable six months last year, and revenue grew just 1.9 percent -- hardly the expected pace for a company that formerly could not supply phones fast enough to its clamorous customers. 
Mr. Tachikawa, who guided DoCoMo through its boom years but is now navigating rough waters, also reduced full-year forecasts. 
The causes are simple, yet overwhelming. More than 62 percent of Japanese have cellular phones, so finding new subscribers has turned into a costly battle with DoCoMo's rivals, KDDI and J-Phone. In a weak economy, consumers are increasingly reluctant to pay $400 for DoCoMo's fancy third-generation phones or spend $100 a month downloading bulky audio files. To compete, DoCoMo must cut prices, a humbling concession for a company whose products had always commanded a premium. 
At its peak, DoCoMo seemed to be setting an international example by popularizing text messaging through its trademark i-mode phones, turning cellular e-mail into a fine art with its sleek handsets. By linking handsets to the Internet with "always on" service, the company revolutionized the way people used cellphones, making it easy to surf the Net, book movie tickets or play computer games.
Mr. Tachikawa's plan was to take i-mode global. But DoCoMo's international expansion has hit an expensive speed bump. The company pumped $15 billion into mobile phone companies in the United States, Europe and Asia the last four years as part of a worldwide expansion of its phone service. Yet with global stock markets in disarray, DoCoMo has been forced to write off two-thirds of the value of its investments in companies like AT&T Wireless Services and KPN Mobile in the Netherlands. 
Worse, DoCoMo's older i-mode Internet-enabled phones have received only a lukewarm reception in Europe. These handsets were supposed to be a warm-up act for DoCoMo's third-generation, or 3G, phones, the holy grail of the cellular market. Because the 3G handsets can transmit data up to 40 times faster than can conventional phones, users can download and send audio files, snapshots and short movies and hold video conferences. The technology will also allow for easier global roaming. Eager to preserve its pioneering image, DoCoMo bulled ahead with its introduction of the world's first third-generation service in October 2001. 
It turned into a disaster. Sales are more than six months behind forecast and bugs in the expensive 3G handsets have hobbled service. Callers have found the phones clunky and coverage spotty, a bad sign in this country of finicky consumers. While DoCoMo focused on its floundering 3G service, KDDI and J-Phone unveiled cheaper, snazzier phones that bit into DoCoMo's 58 percent market share, tarnishing the company's pace-setting image. 
Humility, though, has never been one of Mr. Tachikawa's strong points. His answers at the November news conference were curt and his gaze icy cold. He would not acknowledge that his company would face delays recouping the 1 trillion yen ($8.2 billion) investment in its faltering new service. 
And in response to frequent suggestions that he should step down, in light of the $10 billion in losses his company accumulated overseas, Mr. Tachikawa offered to take a 20 percent pay cut but dug in his heels.
"It is management's responsibility to continue carrying out effective business reforms and boost the company's value," said Mr. Tachikawa, who declined to be interviewed for this article. 
The question on many investors' minds is whether Mr. Tachikawa's reforms will be enough to restore DoCoMo's luster. The company's stock, once worth more than that of Japan's largest company, Toyota Motor, has fallen 32 percent this year and 76 percent from its peak in February 2000. The slide has cost shareholders more than $180 billion -- losses comparable with those of overseas rivals like Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom. 
The declines are bitter medicine for Mr. Tachikawa, a proud engineer. The company will cut its capital investment budget this year by 5.2 percent to compensate for the slower-than-expected expansion of its third-generation network. DoCoMo is also bracing for what it calls the "transition phase from rapid expansion to stable growth" -- a euphemism for single-digit growth in the number of new customers. 
DoCoMo signed up 1.5 million new subscribers between April and September, a gain of just 3.3 percent. And despite DoCoMo's market-leading content, customers are spending less each month on phone fees. The industry benchmark for measuring this phenomenon -- monthly average revenue per user -- fell 6 percent, to 8,160 yen ($67.45), in the first half and is expected to dip an additional 180 yen ($1.49) by March.
Per-user revenue is declining partly because Japanese are talking less on their mobile phones and sending more e-mail messages instead. The shift from voice to data is not new. But DoCoMo and its rivals expected consumers to move beyond text messaging and to download more photos, movie clips and songs -- larger data files that are more expensive to retrieve. Instead, the carriers are finding that except for a core group of heavy users, most subscribers use their phones minimally. 
"The big users buy the phones first," said Jeffrey Lee Funk, author of "The Mobile Internet: How Japan Dialed Up and the West Disconnected" (ISI Publications). But per-user revenue declines over time, he said, "because most new users don't use their phones as much." 
Technology fatigue is hitting DoCoMo's rivals, too. J-Phone has sold more than seven million of its so-called sha-mail phones, which have tiny cameras inside so people can snap photos and e-mail them. ("Sha" is short for photograph in Japanese.) Users spend 8,400 yen ($69.40) a month with these phones, about one-quarter more than the average wireless bill. Yet the company's "movie sha-mail" phones, which can take and transmit five-second video clips, have been slower to catch on. And what demand there is has been diluted by KDDI and DoCoMo, which have come out with their own movie phones. 
The market's shrug could spell disaster for DoCoMo. Given the high development costs, DoCoMo needs not only to sell more phones, but for users to spend more with them. Meanwhile, KDDI's slower-but-cheaper 3G phones have proved to be a big hit, stealing potential business. J-Phone will start its own 3G network this month. 
DoCoMo says the key is luring corporate users to the faster, more advanced services that allow, for example, a salesman to download data on inventory back at a factory. 
But with the economy slumping, most managers view these handsets as more extraneous than essential. Through Sept. 30, DoCoMo sold 140,000 3G subscriptions, a goal it had hoped to reach in March. Now the company expects 320,000 customers by next March -- a quarter of its original projection. 
For now, DoCoMo can afford to wait for its sophisticated phones to catch on. The company is sitting on 356 billion yen ($2.9 billion) in cash, and its parent, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, is majority owned by the government. Just as important, DoCoMo still holds a large share of Japan's $70 billion mobile phone market, and no one expects that to change significantly. 
These assets cannot, by themselves, increase growth, though. Rather, analysts say, good ideas packaged in an affordable way can. The question is when consumers will scoop them up. With DoCoMo's shares in the dumps and sales and profit slowing, Mr. Tachikawa must know that investors are losing patience.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The outlook for NTT DoCoMo has been sober lately for its president, Keiji Tachikawa, above. It still holds a large share of the cellular market in Japan, but many of its new services and phones, right, have been slow to catch on. (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); 3G WIRELESS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FILM (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TEXT MESSAGING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); DATA TRANSMISSION (75%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: NTT DOCOMO INC (96%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (85%); AT&T INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NTT DOCOMO; KDDI (CO); J-PHONE CO 

TICKER: NDCM (LSE) (96%); DCM (NYSE) (96%); 9437 (TSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; TACHIKAWA, KEIJI 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%); NETHERLANDS (52%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



60 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
More campaigns for holiday shopping have themes other than Christmas.

BYLINE:  By Karen J. Bannan 

 BODY:
ADVERTISERS are increasingly recognizing that not everyone celebrates the holiday season with a Christmas tree.
 The Postal Service is offering stamps that celebrate Ramadan and Kwanzaa. J. C. Penney's holiday television commercial features young girls celebrating Hanukkah, as well as scenes of Kwanzaa festivities. Stop and Shop Supermarket's print advertising featured Ramadan wishes last month, and Hanukkah, Christmas and Kwanzaa ads are planned for this month. And Orbitz's ads on the World Wide Web urge users to "spin the dreidel" for savings on air fares. 
 "It wasn't that long ago that every holiday commercial was all about Christmas," said Mike Rogers, president and executive creative director for the New York office of the Wolf Group. "Now, clients are more aware of the ethnic and racial makeup of our country and are tailoring their ads accordingly."
But advertisers' growing recognition of the nation's multicultural reality, no matter how belated, can backfire. If the marketing does not display an understanding of the nuances of religion or culture, the targets of the advertising could be turned off.
The trading of sugarplums and Santa for dreidels and Kwanzaa candles dovetails with marked changes in the demographic makeup of the country. According to a 2001 study released by the City University of New York, 76.5 percent of the country classifies itself as Christian. A decade ago, that number was 86 percent.
African Americans, who as a group posted a 21.5 percent increase, make up 12.3 percent of the population. And the number of people with some Hispanic background has grown to 12.5 percent, a 57.9 percent increase since the 1990 Census. Whites make up 75.1 percent.
Other marketers say increased awareness about racial and religious sensitivities after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks is also contributing to the change.
No matter the reason, one researcher said, the change is a welcome one among minorities. "For groups like African Americans and Hispanics, there's a history of exclusion, so members of these groups are sensitive to this issue," said Dr. Andrew Erlich, a cross-cultural psychologist and principal of Erlich Transcultural Consultants of Woodland, Calif.
And inclusion is an important motivation behind marketers' new ads. J. C. Penney and its agency, the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, created the ads as part of its yearlong 100th anniversary celebration of the department store, said Vanessa Castagna, chief executive and chairwoman of J. C. Penney stores, catalog and Internet. The company's intention was to include images of diverse family groups. "We serve these markets and these customers and that's who we are and what we are," Ms. Castagna said.
Even when Santa and his elves are absent from ads, marketers are showing increased sensitivity to language. During the shooting of a new television commercial for the electronics retailer The Wiz, the last line of the ad was altered, said Mr. Rogers of the Wolf Group. Originally, the company's spokesman waved at the camera and said, "See you at the Christmas party." The company instead chose a more generic, "See you at the holiday party," he said.
Some marketers are eschewing holiday trappings altogether, said Carol Cleveland, principal of Cleveland Communications, a media planner based in Boston. "With the economy the way it is, consumers are focused on getting the best bargain. Advertisers are leading with very specific sales pitches -- percentages off or special sales -- instead of trying to evoke a feeling or affinity."
But ethnocentric marketing -- like last year's Sear's television ad in California that showed an Asian Santa Claus -- is expected to grow. "By branching out past Christmas, the advertisers are telling consumers, 'We understand who you are as an individual,' " said Maria Bailey, chief executive of the marketing company BSM Media and the author of "Marketing to Moms: Getting Your Share of the Trillion-Dollar Market." BSM is based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Gary Pinheiro, planning director at Ogilvy & Mather, owned by the WPP Group, said that diversity concerns played a larger role in campaigns' conceptions. "When we grew up, we were told all people are created equal and that everyone had to be treated exactly the same," he said. "Now, we're realizing that while the first statement is true, it's not only acceptable but desirable to celebrate people's differences." 
Some experts say this strategy can prove problematic. There is always a risk that multiethnic and multicultural advertising will offend members of other ethnic and religious groups.
"Oftentimes, marketers know there's going to be some backlash by a vocal minority, and some are fearful of that, but the majority of advertisers have this expectation in advance and aren't bothered too much by it," Dr. Erlich said. 
What is more dangerous, he said, is that many advertisers plan campaigns based on limited knowledge of a particular group. Since there can be many subcategories within groups, marketers can alienate the consumers they are courting.
Mr. Pinheiro of Ogilvy & Mather said advertisers could temper their risks by running small focus groups. "This is vital," he said. "It's quite easy to miss something when marketing to smaller groups just because it wasn't something that was on your radar."
Still, many experts think the risks of the multicultural approach are overshadowed by the potential for success. "Advertisers will see that more targeted advertising really works, especially when they speak to all of their customers in a meaningful way," Ms. Bailey said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An advertisement for Orbitz.com, a travel Web site, is one example of a trend toward shopping campaigns linked to holidays like Hanukkah. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KWANZAA (93%); CHRISTMAS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); HANUKKAH (91%); RAMADAN (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (79%); RELIGION (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (77%); WOMEN (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); CENSUS (66%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ADVERTISING; JEWS; HANUKKAH; RAMADAN; KWANZAA (CELEBRATION); CHRISTMAS 

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (86%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (57%); WOLF GROUP (56%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (86%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); OWW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: MIKE ROGERS (54%) BANNAN, KAREN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



61 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Deal Hunting For Holidays Pushes Sales Into High Gear 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Lillian Chua, a New Yorker newly transplanted from California, emerged from the J. Crew store at Rockefeller Center on Friday with a small shopping bag and a sense of letdown. 
 "It was not as great as I thought," she said. While some things, like pajamas, were marked down, others were not. "Their cashmere sweaters," she said pointedly, "were not on sale." 
 Call it the bargain-on-demand mentality. Blame Wal-Mart, Target and the other discount retailers who have conditioned the nation's shoppers to expect to get more for less. But with the holiday season in high gear, many retailers are finding they have no choice but to entice people with at least the impression of a deal. 
So far, consumers seem to like what they see. Retail sales on the Friday after Thanksgiving, the unofficial start of the holiday season, were up 12.3 percent over the same day last year, according to estimates from ShopperTrak RCT, which monitors consumer spending. By comparison, sales last year were up only 2.7 percent. The good news for retailers continued on Saturday, with sales up 9 percent, compared with 4.1 percent the previous year. Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, reported record day-after Thanksgiving sales of $1.43 billion, up more than 14 percent over the same day last year. 
Much of this activity came from retailers' reducing prices, handing out coupons and widening once-selective marketing techniques like the "friends and family sale" made popular last season. Highly prevalent this year is the "bounceback," offering buyers discounts on future purchases at the same store, according to Richard E. Jaffe, a retail analyst for UBS Warburg. 
"Every retailer has a different name for it, but it's the strategy we're seeing heavily throughout the malls," Mr. Jaffe said. 
Bloomingdale's has been offering $15 gift cards with every $100 purchase. Circuit City is giving away $100 off future purchases with every Pentium 4 desktop computer. Kmart hands out a $10 coupon for a $50 purchase. A purchase now at J. Crew gives the shopper a $25 coupon that can be used in the last two weeks in December.
The flood of offers reflects the deep concern many retailers had going into this holiday season, said Ruth N. Bolton, editor of the Journal of Marketing. 
"Price is the most obvious of a marketer's weapons," she said. "To immediately go to that suggests folks are kind of worried and are coming on strong."
Gap has a $25 coupon that it has been awarding to people who spend $50. Online retailers are offering a 10 or 15 percent discount on a purchase, plus a coupon, and then there is free shipping, too. Companies like Ann Taylor Loft and Montblanc are holding "friends and family" sales that are open to just about everyone, with attendance that proves it. "Why not?" said Candace Corlett, a retail consultant. "If you're spending money, you're a friend." 
For many retailers, particularly online retailers, the point is to bring in shoppers who may not have shopped in a place before. Last week, one company, HSN.com, has a coupon for a $15 discount on a $20 purchase for first-time shoppers, said Ahmet Can, a vice president at WhenU.com, which does online promotions for companies. The Target and Old Navy Web sites offer 10 percent and 15 percent off, respectively. Kbtoys.com gives $5 off a $40 sale, and throws in free shipping. Clearance sections on some sites, including Coldwatercreek.com, offer discounts of up to 80 percent, he added.
"There's a whole psychology to coupons," Mr. Can said. "Some retailers offer dollars off a certain amount. Others offer a percentage off. The dollars-off work better, because consumers imagine the money back in their pockets." 
The psychology got to him, too. Recently Mr. Can bought a flat-screen computer monitor from Dell.com. He used a 20 percent off coupon, another coupon for $25 off and took advantage of the company's free shipping offer. The $400 monitor ended up costing him about $250, he said. 
But the flurry of sales and coupons raises a question: How will consumers react when asked to pay full price for something in the new year when they bought it on sale before? 
"I will never, ever pay full price for anything," said Caryn Koch, who lives in New Jersey and shops sales almost religiously. Her recent finds included suede clothing, boots and men's sweaters, all using sales, discounts or both. "If it's never marked down, I don't need it."
Mr. Jaffe described the waiting game by retailers and consumers as a game of chicken. "The question is who's going to move first?" he said.
Dr. Bolton said one of her daughters had received a $25 coupon after spending close to $200 at Gap recently. After considering the situation, she decided that $25 back for a $50 purchase was a much better deal. She returned most of her purchases and decided to wait until Gap's next sale to buy them. 
"To the extent that they offer these prices that they can't offer all the time, they create a situation where the customer expects that," Dr. Bolton said. "You want to have a competitive advantage that other retailers can't copy. And unfortunately, price discounting is something that everyone can copy."
Hence, stores like Sears and Macy's are holding three-day sales before Thanksgiving. Kmart is offering 50 percent off Christmas tree ornaments, more than three weeks before Christmas. Urban Outfitters is offering 15 percent off, right now. 
Even offering a discount is no guarantee a store will have traffic. At Rockefeller Center on Friday, people swarmed through the Banana Republic store, where deals like gray flannel dresses reduced from $148 to $89.99, and slacks once selling for $78 but now priced at $29.99, filled one section of the second floor. Meanwhile, at the Nautica store nearby, salespeople had time to chat with one another despite a 25 percent markdown on some items, like a men's red sweater originally priced at $168. "It's been off and on, but like this most of the day," one saleswoman said. 
Mr. Can said some retailers did lose money on certain offers, but that was not generally the case. "If it didn't pay off, they wouldn't be doing it," he said. 
The democratization of the friends-and-family sale has surprised some retail experts, who say they are being held by everyone from clothing chains to luxury retailers like Montblanc. "It used to be that they were for employees and their families," said Ms. Corlett, a partner with WSL Strategic Retail, a Manhattan consulting firm. "Now the invitations are circulating on the Internet. It appears to be exclusive, and people feel more compelled to go. You have this sense that it is not the overcrowded sale." 
Sales can take many forms, and some seem designed to dispose of as many items as possible. At Sharper Image, the specialty gift retailer, the top seller is an air purifier that costs $249.95, said Neptali Chavez, a salesman. But it comes with a deal: the second one is half-price, and the store throws in a tiny purifier for the bathroom. 
"No one is taking any chances," Ms. Corlett said. "It is so erratic and unpredictable this year. The headlines day to day can affect how the season goes." Fears of war and more company bankruptcies and general economic malaise have people concerned about whether to spend money on shopping, she said. "That all builds up," she said. "It makes people more cautious about where they spend." 
And then there are the expectations, also built up over time. 
"It's the holidays," Miss Chua said. "There are supposed to be sales."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lillian Chua was disappointed that some items weren't on sale at a J. Crew store in Manhattan. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); CHRISTMAS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); THANKSGIVING (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (63%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; SALES; CHRISTMAS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%); ANNTAYLOR RETAIL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



62 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Media Owners, More Media Choices 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
For decades, public interest advocates have successfully argued for stringent limits on the number of newspapers, radio stations and television outlets that a company can own. 
 They have summoned images of Citizen Kane, or worse, Big Brother, warning that without strict regulation a few powerful corporations could take control of political discourse while homogenizing entertainment and defanging news. 
 But the advocates are now facing an issue that is much more complicated because despite consolidation, media choices have expanded exponentially through technology. Now the typical American can watch Britain's BBC News, among others, on television and choose from tens of thousands of news Web sites, from Al Jazeera, based in Qatar, to The Times of India, based in New Delhi. As a result, federal regulators are questioning whether fears of corporate media domination have become obsolete. 
The impact of the Internet and the expansion of cable and satellite TV will be discussed next month, as the Federal Communications Commission considers loosening ownership restrictions in what could be the largest overhaul of media regulations in a generation. The issue could also be raised if ABC News and CNN ever agree to merge, reducing the number of independently owned national television news outlets from five to four.
Those who have an an opinion on the slackening of ownership rules have until Jan. 2 to submit a filing. Opponents argue that huge leaps in the number of entertainment and information sources mask a consolidation of media ownership -- and a sameness in television and radio programming -- that F.C.C. leaders are choosing to ignore.
Proponents of deregulation say that the average household has access to so much information in so many different forms that no single company could ever exert undue influence over consumers. In fact, they argue, large media conglomerates like AOL Time Warner and Comcast, through their investments in cable and Internet, are helping to bring more choices than ever to the average American household.
Just such an analysis is driving the F.C.C., now under the control of Bush administration appointees.
To some, the average American home has almost too much television to watch -- 89 channels by the count of Nielsen Media Research. Nearly a third of United States homes with televisions have satellite or digital cable systems that give them access to more than 200 channels.
"When I look at the trends in television over the last 20 to 50 years, I see a constant and increasing explosion in variety," said Michael Powell, the F.C.C. chairman. "In the purported golden age of television there were three networks."
Most car radio dials have access to nearly two dozen stations, according to F.C.C. data. Satellite radio systems, if they gain traction in the market, will offer far more. Meanwhile, almost two-thirds of all Americans have the Internet at home, the F.C.C. says, allowing them to peruse just about any major newspaper or magazine in the world.
With all this in mind, the F.C.C. is considering sweeping away or greatly relaxing rules that limit how many television stations a company can own nationwide; that bar companies from owning a major television station and newspaper in the same town; and that limit the number of radio and television stations that companies can own in one market.
"I think that these issues have traditionally been debated at kind of a superficial, sociopolitical level," Mr. Powell said. "Is it really true that Americans do not have access to lots of diverse voices to require government intervention?"
The response of the public interest advocates -- and some politicians -- is that while the media menu has expanded, it is chosen according to the commercial interests of a handful of companies.
A new network has little chance of getting off the ground without agreements from Comcast and AOL Time Warner to carry it. The two companies serve about half of all cable households.
The advocates argue that there is little incentive for the cable giants to make room for networks that do not have the backing of another major media company, like Walt Disney, which can use its popular ESPN or the ABC broadcast network as a wedge to force pickup of newer channels. Independent networks tend to have a shot at being on television only if they can attract investment from the cable companies.
This dynamic has helped lead to a dearth of major networks addressing minorities or people interested in high culture or civic affairs, areas that do not promise the ratings and profit bonanzas that major media companies are seeking, said Gene Kimmelman, senior director of the Consumers Union.
"With a handful of companies deciding what makes it in programming," said Mr. Kimmelman, "many points of view, many tastes are underrepresented in the marketplace."
He said ownership limits should, if anything, be increased so that no company has that much power over what programming people can see.
Underscoring their point, advocates say that while the number of national television channels has increased greatly, ownership of those outlets has not. 
For instance, in North Jersey, nearly 70 percent of the 75 basic service channels on Comcast are at least partly held by seven companies: Comcast, Viacom, AOL Time Warner, Disney, General Electric, the News Corporation and Liberty Media. According to an F.C.C. study, a significant number of the nearly 300 national television programming networks are owned by just 14 companies.
"This is a very narrow definition of diversity," said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a group that supports greater media regulation. "Just because there are five home shopping networks, four fix-em-up channels and five talking head news channels doesn't mean there's real diversity or competition."
He and other advocates said that a further easing of ownership rules could lead to a greater homogenization of television and radio. Worse, they said, it could give media companies too much political control in their given markets.
Proponents of media deregulation say this sort of analysis ignores economics. Good media executives, they say, know that people will pay well over $50 per month for 200 channels only if they are offered a compelling array of choices.
"Common ownership can lead to more diversity," Mr. Powell said. "What does the owner get for having duplicative products? I don't know why you'd want to have two newspapers that say the same thing. I would say, 'Let's make one Democratic, let's make one Republican."'
And, he said, large corporations are often better positioned to start and sustain various media outlets than are smaller companies.
For instance, regulators allowed the News Corporation, headed by Rupert Murdoch, to buy The New York Post in 1993, despite its ownership of New York's Channel 5, because the newspaper, owned by the developer Peter Kalikow, was only a breath away from death. That saved a local voice in New York that would have been lost.
And consumer demand has, in fact, pushed cable companies to start their own local news and public affairs channels, adding to diversity. For instance, it was Time Warner that gave New York City something the city lacked -- a 24-hour local news station, New York 1, that does not adhere slavishly to the if-it-bleeds-it-leads format of local news. New York 1 has reporters covering each of the five boroughs, and areas like transportation and schools. In the Philadelphia area, Comcast has CN8, which covers high school sports as well as local news issues.
Each company started these networks in part to gain an edge on rapidly growing satellite television systems, which struggled just to get capacity to carry existing, local channels in all of their markets.
EchoStar, meanwhile, has found that there is money in offering immigrant communities programming from their home countries with Russian-, Arab-, Chinese-, South Asian- and Greek-language packages.
Public interest advocates said all this misses the most important points. They question how many people really use the Internet as a major news source.
According to an F.C.C.-commissioned study, the average television viewer watches more than 2.5 hours of news a week. Mark Cooper, director of research for the Consumer Federation of America, says studies show that people use the Internet for news about one-fifth as much. Advocates acknowledged that Internet use will surely rise. They said their real fear was that the major cable companies, if left to their own devices, would use their broadband Internet services to limit choice and guide users to Web sites in which they have interests.
And, they said, while those large media conglomerates' new local news outlets may be good for day-to-day coverage, they may prove less useful in investigating any nefarious behavior by their parent companies and their political patrons.
"The issue," said Mr. Kimmelman of the Consumers Union, "is whether at any critical time when it's important to get updated news -- local or national -- is there an ability to distort or present one point of view more prominently than another?"
Still, Mr. Kimmelman said, "This is not to say something horrible happens day in and day out. If it even happens once it wasn't worth the risk of distorting democracy by letting somebody own too much of the media."
Mr. Powell said he is fully cognizant of these fears, and that he is not completely "cold to them."
But, he said, "I don't know that if because you can articulate the anxiety it is a compelling case for having massive structural regulation of the industry."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day last Monday showing an increase in the number of media choices in small and midsize markets referred incorrectly to the situation of Altoona, Pa. It indeed has a daily newspaper, The Altoona Mirror.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More News Options"The growth of the Internet has sharply increased the number of options for news and entertainment. But that has not been the only significant change over the years. The number of media outlets has also grown as, for example, in the metropolitan New York region. 2000RADIO STATIONS: 148TV STATIONS: 24DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 9AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: 42 1980RADIO STATIONS: 128TV STATIONS: 17DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 8AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: 3 1960RADIO STATIONS: 74TV STATIONS: 7DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 8AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: -- (Source: Federal Communications Commission)(pg. C1) Chart: "More Options in Smaller Markets, Too"Big media markets have seen a sharp increase in the number of media outlets in recent years. But there has also been significant growth in medium-size and small markets. Birmingham, Ala. 2000RADIO STATIONS: 45TV STATIONS: 9DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 2AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: 21 1980RADIO STATIONS: 35TV STATIONS: 7DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 1AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: 2 1960RADIO STATIONS: 22TV STATIONS: 4DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 2AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: -- Altoona, Pa. 2000RADIO STATIONS: 14TV STATIONS: 6DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 21There is no longer a local daily newspaper 1980RADIO STATIONS: 12TV STATIONS: 5DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 1AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: 1 1960RADIO STATIONS: 6TV STATIONS: 3DAILY NEWSPAPERS: 1AVG. NO. OF CABLE CHANNELS: -- (Source: Federal Communications Commission)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (73%); SATELLITE RADIO (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); TRENDS (64%) TELEVISION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RADIO; NEWSPAPERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MEDIA; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING 

COMPANY: AOL INC (65%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (63%)

PERSON: RUTENBERG, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (76%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (66%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); QATAR (79%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



63 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Bali's Broken Economy: As Fragile as an Eggshell 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: DENPASAR, Indonesia 

 BODY:
His fingers clasp a long brush and with the finest of strokes, Nyoman Kantor paints the figures of a Balinese myth onto eggshell. Luscious reds, greens and yellows sparkle on the egg, a memento popular with tourists who come to Mr. Kantor's outdoor studio and salesroom. Roughly speaking, these $10 eggs are Bali's answer to Faberge's jeweled versions of a century ago.
 But these days, business is about as slow as it has ever been. Bali's tourism collapsed after the terrorist attack on a disco in October, and the return of the foreign visitors is only slowly starting again. 
 In the weeks after the attack, Mr. Kantor, 48, said he did not sell any of his goose eggs. They take two days to paint, and he makes about a $5 profit on each one. "I haven't been to the hotels to sell because there are so few customers," he said. 
About half of Bali's economy is based on tourism, according to the World Bank, a heavy reliance for a society accustomed to some of the highest standards of living in Indonesia. In the last decade, rice fields have been eaten up by hotel developments in the southern half of the island, and increasing numbers of Balinese have moved from agricultural livelihoods to work in tourism. 
Hoteliers say each room generates 25 jobs: receptionists, cooks, gardeners, money-changers, guides, dancers for nighttime entertainment, even lifeguards for protection at the beach. 
Indications of an early recovery are not encouraging, economists say. 
Many upmarket hotels are reporting occupancy rates of less than 20 percent. Some low-rent hotels have closed temporarily. Taxi drivers complain they have few passengers. Some stores are offering sizable discounts for their carved wood furniture and trendy clothes.
The World Bank says about 1.7 million people work in Bali, and according to the direst estimates, as many as half could become unemployed if the tourism continues to slump. 
But the worst may not happen.
Much depends on how fast the investigation into the terrorist attack proceeds, economists say. If the inquiry proceeds quickly and suspects continue to be arrested, foreign governments will consider removing the travel warnings that are discouraging tourists, Western officials predict. 
Japan, Singapore and other Asian countries do not have travel warnings on Indonesia, and their citizens are traveling again to Bali. The United States, Australia and Britain have not significantly modified the travel warnings they issued after the terrorist attack. Security has been visibly improved at the airport at Denpasar and the major hotels now have policemen patrolling their grounds. 
While Bali waits for the foreigners to return, the Bali Tourism Board has begun a campaign to stimulate the domestic market. The idea was to fill vacant hotel rooms with Indonesians, who often take time off after Ramadan. The response has been good, said the minister of trade, Rini Mariani Soewandi.
"We have to get Garuda to restore the flights they have cut," she said, referring to the national airline. 
One of the biggest problems facing the Balinese is how to maintain their standard of living. 
"All the social indicators in Bali are above average," said K. Sarwar Lateef, the senior adviser to the World Bank in Indonesia. "There are strong traditions of schooling." The World Bank is working on a plan to ensure that parents who become unemployed can still pay their children's school fees, he said.
Another challenge is how to help the Balinese who have loans to pay back. 
Mr. Kantor's 23-year-old son, I Made Muliana, who is also an egg painter, recently bought a motorbike. "The bike is good for going to the hotels to sell," said Mr. Muliana. He owes the bank $30 a month for the next three years, he said. How was he going to pay the installments? Mr. Muliana shrugged.
At the Oberoi Hotel, a five-star resort on the ocean, many employees have taken loans, said the general manager, Kamal K. Kaul. About 75 percent of staff salaries came from service charges placed on customers' bills, he said. 
"For two decades staff incomes have been going up," Mr. Kaul said. "This attack is something they never dreamed would happen. These realities of modern life the Balinese will have to learn to cope with."
Like most people involved with Bali, Mr. Kaul was relatively upbeat. On the commercial side, Christmas bookings were holding, he said.
The Hindu religious leaders have appealed to the Balinese to stay calm. "For the Balinese, life is all about seeking balance," Mr. Kaul said. "Many are reverting to prayer." 
In a signal of long-term confidence, Starbucks still plans to open in Bali, said Anthony Cottan, the country general manager. 
A Starbucks store was planned not far from the Sari Club, the target of the attack that killed more than 180 people, Mr. Cottan said. "Our plan was to open in the first quarter next year. We feel that there might be only a six-month delay," he said. "We're still very enthusiastic." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elaborately painted eggs were popular with tourists in Bali, but sales have slumped with tourism itself. Nyoman Kantor, 48, and his son, I Made Muliana, 23, eggshell painters, show their wares in front of the family temple at their home. (Muktita Suhartono for The New York Times); (Jane Perlez/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TOURISM (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CLOSINGS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); DANCERS (64%); ARRESTS (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (96%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) BALI (INDONESIA); INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



64 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Anger Greets Plan to Raise Long-Steady Toll 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: ST. IGNACE, Mich., Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Around here they call it Mighty Mac, the towering, five-mile-long Mackinac Bridge, which links residents of the Upper Peninsula to the rest of the state, not to mention shopping, hospitals and many of their jobs.
 But a proposal to raise car tolls on the suspension bridge by a dollar each way has stirred anger among local residents. 
 The increase would be the first on the bridge in more than 40 years. And managers of the bridge point out that at $2.50 it would still be far cheaper per mile than the Golden Gate Bridge and the many spans in New York City. 
But some residents, like Mayor Bruce Dodson of St. Ignace, who is also a funeral director who crosses the bridge 800 to 1,000 times a year, say it is too much.
"It's a big hit all at once," Mr. Dodson said. "I have a problem with that: a 66 percent increase."
The St. Ignace City Council unanimously passed a resolution last week opposing the rate increase. At least one other city in the Upper Peninsula, Sault Ste. Marie, is considering a similar move. Three public hearings are set for next week, and the directors of the Mackinac Bridge Authority expect to decide this year.
On the map, the bridge looks like a slender ribbon connecting the mitten-shaped Lower Peninsula to the eastern tip of what is known here as "the U.P." When it was built in 1957, the Mackinac Bridge was the longest suspension bridge in the world. It is still among the longest, with its center span stretching 3,800 feet and its roadway, from shore to shore, running almost five miles. It spans the windy Straits of Mackinac, which connect Lake Michigan to the west with Lake Huron to the east. The bridge is part of Interstate 75, which runs from Sault Ste. Marie, 50 miles north, to just outside Miami.
The last time tolls for cars on the bridge were changed was 1969, and the tolls were lowered. Bob Sweeney, executive secretary of the bridge authority, said the last time tolls were raised was 1961.
"If we had adjusted for inflation since then the rate would be $7.50 by now," he said.
Mr. Sweeney said the increase was needed to bolster the authority's cash reserves to prepare for major structural work. Paint on the bridge will be stripped over the next 10 years, and the entire bridge will be repainted at a cost of more than $70 million. A redecking project, expected to cost almost $200 million, is planned for 2017.
Michigan has no toll roads and has toll bridges only at border crossings, except for the Mackinac Bridge. Some argue that the state and federal government should pick up the cost of maintaining the bridge, just as they maintain the rest of the highway system.
"It should be a free bridge," said Larry Rubin, 89, a St. Ignace resident who knows as much about the Mackinac Bridge as just about anyone. Mr. Rubin was executive secretary of the bridge authority from its inception in 1950 -- before construction of the bridge had started -- until he retired in 1983.
Mr. Rubin said he knows that the bridge needs money to be maintained. He also said he knows that his vision of a free bridge is probably unrealistic.
"It's not a statement of economic reality," he said. "It's more a philosophic statement. Michigan does not have toll roads. It does not have toll bridges."
Gary Heckman, the St. Ignace city manager, said residents here are worried about tourism, on which the town relies almost completely for sustenance. It has a year-round population of 2,700, swelling to more than 10,000 in the summer. It also is home to one of several ferries that take vacationers to the popular Mackinac Island, just to the east.
"We're very worried about how it would affect our town economy," Mr. Heckman said.
Mr. Sweeney said bridge officials have studied potential use of the bridge and do not expect any decrease in ridership. Most visitors to the Upper Peninsula drive from the southern part of the state, a trip of about 200 miles. Mr. Sweeney said use of the bridge has not dropped when gasoline prices spiked, and those increases have amounted to much more than the toll increase.
Mr. Dodson, though, said day-trippers from Mackinaw City and other nearby towns across the straits might be dissuaded.
The bridge handles about 4.5 million crossings each year, Mr. Sweeney said. About 6.5 percent of those are by people who buy commuter tokens at a discount, a discount that would be slightly increased under the proposed toll structure. Another 6.5 percent of those crossings are commercial vehicles. Trucks pay a higher rate, which is based on size, and those tolls would also increase.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mackinac Bridge links the Upper Peninsula with the rest of Michigan. The toll for cars, $1.50, has not increased since 1961. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RUNNING (68%); LAKES (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%) BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TOLLS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MACKINAC BRIDGE (MICHIGAN); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (92%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LAKE HURON (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%) MICHIGAN

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



65 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary 

BYLINE:  By Joe Rogers

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
On Halloween afternoon, I sat across the aisle of a subway car from a young mother and her son, who looked about 4. The boy finished a lime lollipop and looked around the car where there were several other children in Halloween costumes. Ready to cry, he said to his mother, "I don't have a costume!"
 "Yes you do," she said. 
 "Noooo, I don't," was the almost tearful reply. 
At this the mother pulled her compact out of her purse and held the mirror in front of her son, saying, "Yes you do. You have a green tongue!" 
The boy stuck out his tongue and looked in the mirror, delightedly murmuring, "A green tongue."
"And that makes you an imp, an imp of mischief," the mother went on. The imp continued to look in the mirror, enchanted.
Everyone around them smiled. They seemed to feel, as I did, that there's nothing quite like a savvy mom at the top of her game.
 Gene C. Gill

Dear Diary:
My wife and I, native New Yorkers, moved to St. Louis a few years ago. Shortly after our arrival, we went to a local restaurant. After we gave our orders, the waiter said to us, "You're from New York, aren't you?"
In my best and most exaggerated Noo Yawk accent, I answered: "Yeah. Howdja know?"
"No problem," he replied. "I lived in L.A. for eight years." Murray H. Warschauer
Overheard by Jane Seskin on the West Side:
A woman leaving a veterinarian's office asked her limping dog, "Want to try and walk for a while?"
A friend holding the door pleaded: "Have a heart. Let him take a taxi."
Sandi Schiffman was walking on the Avenue of the Americas in Greenwich Village when she saw a woman walking her dachshund puppy. A man passing by stopped and said to the woman, "You have one handsome son." 
"Thanks," the woman replied, "but she's my daughter."

Dear Diary:
We are usually able to park our car in front of our apartment building because of our handicapped parking permit, but when we arrived home late one Sunday night, no spaces were available.
I had to park several blocks away on First Avenue and did not notice the tiny sign advising me not to park because of road work. Overnight, our car was relocated.
Where was our car relocated to? We found it parked Monday morning right in front of our apartment building. Ann Newman

Dear Diary:
Back in the 70's when I lived in the West Village, the usual summer Sunday treat was to hang out at the pier at the end of Jane Street. On one particular Sunday a group of five of us, all strangers, were chatting casually and sharing some cranberry juice one fellow had brought.
A small fishing boat piloted by a father and his son came very close to the end of the pier. Just as a lark, the five of us put out our thumbs to "hitch" a ride on the boat.
Surprisingly, the father pulled his boat to the pier and motioned for us to get on. We all clambered on board and were treated to a short but delightful tour of the lower Hudson River.
After being returned to the pier, we were so thrilled to have shared such an unusual experience, we all went for pizza at La Marionetta on Greenwich Avenue.
After the meal we left the restaurant, said goodbye and never saw one another again. Judy Noble Speregen

Dear Diary:
During a recent spate of unemployment, I became a regular at the cafe near my apartment in Brooklyn.
One morning, after I ordered my usual coffee, I noticed a small brown roach skittering its way across the counter.
When she returned with my coffee, the barista looked at the roach, looked at the coffee and then looked up at me.
"It'll be 50 cents extra if you want the roach in it," she said calmly. Hugh Ryan

Dear Diary:
I had just settled into a booth at a pizzeria with my wife and a friend when a young man approached us and asked if we had just taken his taxi.
While startled, I did recall his bright red turban, and said that we had. 
"Are you sure?" he asked. I was quite certain. 
"You gave me a lot of money," he said. With that, he handed over a wad of bills totaling nearly $100 and left. 
It hit me: I had had two handfuls of money as we pulled up to the pizzeria, one with $6 for the fare and the rest intended for dinner and a movie.
It was obvious that in the rush to get out of the taxi, and in the darkness of the back seat, I'd handed him the wrong wad.
How fortunate that this young man so honestly recognized my mistake, drove back to the restaurant, parked and walked in, finding us among the crowd. 
Recovering from the surprise, I followed him outside and gave him $30 for his good deed. While grateful, the taxi driver gave me a brief lecture on taking better care of my money.
When I went back inside the restaurant, embarrassed over the whole incident, my wife and friend proceeded to do the same.
It reminded me that while New York is a wonderful place, and New Yorkers are wonderful people, this city doesn't suffer fools.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Phil Marden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (71%); DOGS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); VETERINARY SERVICES (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



66 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Reconsidering Other Verdicts In Jogger Case 

BYLINE:  By KEVIN FLYNN and JIM DWYER 

 BODY:
Prosecutors reconsidering whether Harlem teenagers beat and raped a jogger during a Central Park rampage 13 years ago are also debating whether the teenagers' convictions for other crimes committed that night should be thrown out, according to law enforcement officials.
 The jogger was the most seriously injured of the people assaulted on the night of April 19, 1989. But eight other people were either accosted or beaten by a pack that roamed the park for an hour, jumping from the shadows to confront runners and bicyclists. 
 Investigators said it now might be legally unfeasible to let the convictions for the other crimes stand, in light of new evidence that suggests the five teenagers may not have been culpable in the attack on the jogger.
But though investigators no longer can be sure whether the youths raped the jogger, few of those reviewing the case question whether the teenagers were involved in the other crimes. 
For one thing, many of the police and prosecutors reinvestigating the crimes say, the teenagers were undoubtedly part of the pack of about 35 youths who rampaged through the park that night. Four of them made videotaped statements in 1989, some with their parents present, in which they implicated one another in the assaults. The teenagers later insisted that those statements were coerced, but each has acknowledged witnessing at least one assault. Indeed, one teenager, Raymond Santana, confirmed his role in one of the beatings during his parole hearing in 1994.
The videotaped statements were the primary evidence against the teenagers in 1990, when they were tried in connection with the rape and the other assaults. But new evidence, specifically DNA specimens and statements from a convicted murderer who says he alone raped the woman, has put the confessions in question.
If prosecutors decide the confessions were inaccurate about the rape, as some prosecutors now believe, legal experts said the statements would no longer be suitable evidence for the other crimes -- even if investigators remain convinced that those portions were factual.
"The question is whether, if that new evidence had been known to the jury, would there probably have been a more favorable outcome on the other charges," a law enforcement official said.
The five convicted, Kevin Richardson, Antron McCray, Yusef Salaam, Raymond Santana and Kharey Wise, have asked in court papers to be exonerated for all the crimes for which they were sent to prison, which ranged in severity from riot to rape. All have completed their prison sentences for these offenses. The Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, is scheduled to respond to the exoneration motion on Thursday.
"Our clients are innocent," said Michael W. Warren, a lawyer for Mr. Richardson, Mr. McCray and Mr. Santana. "There has not been anything demonstrated to the contrary."
But one of the men who was set upon by teenagers that night says he does not think the slate should simply be wiped clean. David Good, an engineer who works in Midtown, said he was jogging around the north end of the park's Reservoir when teenagers throwing sticks and stones chased him. "You better run faster," he later testified they told him.
"I wouldn't see why it should be overturned," he said. "If they did that, and they were clearly in a riotous mood that night, people should have to pay for their mistakes."
Since Matias Reyes, a convicted murderer, came forward several months ago to state that he alone had raped the jogger, a variety of theories have surfaced about how that crime was actually committed. By a lone predator, as Mr. Reyes has said? By the teenagers first, and then Mr. Reyes in a secondary attack? By a group that included Mr. Reyes?
Little debate has focused on what occurred elsewhere in the park that night.
Between roughly 9 p.m. and 9:45, four people were assaulted and four others accosted by a pack of youths in the northeast corner of the park. Michael Vigna testified at trial in 1990 that someone took a swing at him, just missing his head, as he rode his bicycle past a group of teenagers walking south on East Drive, near East 105th Street. A few blocks south, Antonio Diaz, an unemployed man, was beaten unconscious, according to prosecutors. 
Farther south, Gerald Malone and his fiancee, Patricia Dean, were riding a tandem bike when they encountered a gantlet of youths who spread across the road and grabbed for Ms. Dean, who was riding on the back seat. The couple nearly fell but managed to escape and pedaled away at top speed from several youths who chased after them.
"I was terrified," Ms. Dean testified. "They were grabbing at my legs and pushing at my shoulder."
David Lewis, a banker, was surprised by teenagers as he ran around the reservoir jogging track, he testified. He asked them if they wanted to race. " 'We'll race all right,' " came the answer, he said, as several teenagers moved onto the path in front of him. He escaped but was hit, hard, on his arm as he ran by, he said.
Another jogger, Robert Garner, was punched in the face and torso. A third, John Loughlin, a schoolteacher and former marine, was beaten unconscious when he stopped to help someone else being assaulted.
" 'What are you, some kind of vigilante?' " Mr. Loughlin said a youth asked him. He was hospitalized for two days. Eighteen months later, he said, his skull still hurt. 
Mr. Loughlin was able to identify one teenager, but he was not one of the youths charged with attacking the female jogger. In fact, none of the five teenagers charged in that assault were ever identified by the other victims. (Mr. Malone testified that Mr. Richardson's jacket, which had a white logo, was similar to one he had seen on an attacker. But he said he could not identify him by face.)
Several suspects, however, implicated themselves and one another in videotaped statements. There was a certain consistency to the statements when it came to the assaults. Three of the youths recalled the encounter with the tandem bikers. Four recounted an attack on a jogger who had been hit with a pipe, a weapon that resembled Mr. Loughlin's description of the hard, smooth instrument he had been struck with.
Steven Lopez, a youth who pleaded guilty to taking the radio headset that Mr. Loughlin had worn that night, told the police in 1989 that Mr. Richardson, Mr. Santana and Mr. Salaam had assaulted Mr. Loughlin. Mr. Salaam, he said, had hit the man with a pipe wrapped in black tape. "He was going to work," he said. "He was like, bow, bow, bow." 
During a parole hearing two years later, Mr. Lopez reiterated that he believed the pipe used to beat Mr. Loughlin had belonged to Mr. Salaam.
But Mr. Loughlin could not identify Mr. Salaam in a lineup. And when Mr. Salaam testified in his own defense in 1990, he said that, while he had been carrying a pipe that night, he was only holding it for a friend. He saw one man being beaten and another who seemed to have been hurt, he said, but he had not hit anyone. He characterized police testimony about a stationhouse confession he had made as a fabrication.
The other four teenagers later said their videotaped statements had been coerced by detectives. "I never seen none of this stuff I was saying," Mr. Wise testified, referring to his statement.
Prosecutors countered that, soon after their arrest, the teenagers had accurately described details of assaults that had yet to be reported. Linda Fairstein, the chief of the district attorney's Sex Crimes Unit, testified that she had overheard them talking in a holding cell about a jogger who had challenged them to a race. The jogger who issued that challenge, Mr. Lewis, had not given that detail to the police yet, the prosecution contended, so the information could not have been planted by detectives.
The teenagers' statements were not without apparent errors, however. Several said they had poured beer over Mr. Diaz's head and dragged him, unconscious, into the bushes; all details that Mr. Diaz contradicted on the stand. Similarly, Mr. Richardson's videotaped statement inaccurately described the jogger who had been hit with a pipe as wearing biking pants and shorts. Several other teenagers correctly said he had been wearing Army fatigues. At the conclusion of their trials, each defendant was convicted of at least one charge related to the rampage through the park in addition to the attack on the female jogger, although several of the convictions were later dismissed because of the defendants' age. Mr. Wise was acquitted of charges that he had assaulted Mr. Lewis and Mr. Loughlin, but he was convicted of riot. Jurors said they were persuaded by an alibi witness who said she had seen Mr. Wise outside his apartment building that night at a time when some of the assaults were taking place.
Four years after his trial, Mr. Santana acknowledged being involved in one of the assaults when he appeared before the parole board. "I took part in with the beating of that man," he said. Mr. Wise made vague apologies during a similar session of the board for "acting like a bunch of idiots." But both men continued to deny any role in the sexual assault. Several months ago, ABC News reported that Mr. Wise had said in an interview that he had witnessed some of the assaults, a position at odds with his trial testimony, in which he said he had not seen anyone assaulted in the park.
Mr. Wise's lawyer, Eric Seiff, said that the ABC report was not consistent with his understanding of Mr. Wise's position. 
The defense lawyers said there was no evidence to suggest that the five had committed any crimes. Simply being in a park at night, when rowdiness erupts, is not evidence of any crime, they said. 
Any convictions that arose from a trial in which the teenagers were unfairly portrayed as the predators in a vicious sexual assault cannot stand anyway, said Myron Beldock, a lawyer for Mr. Salaam. "Jurors would have been overwhelmed," he said. "It would have tainted their perceptions for the rest of the case."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New evidence in the Central Park jogger case brought calls from some, like a group at City Hall in October, to exonerate the convicted youths. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JURY TRIALS (79%); SENTENCING (79%); JAIL SENTENCING (79%); PAROLE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MURDER (74%) SEX CRIMES 

PERSON: FLYNN, KEVIN; DWYER, JIM; RICHARDSON, KEVIN; MCCRAY, ANTRON; SALAAM, YUSEF; SANTANA, RAYMOND; WISE, KHAREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; CENTRAL PARK (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



67 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: For Struggling States, All Solutions Point to Washington 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The headlines offer a glimpse of the fiscal grief that is coming:
 "Credit Rating Is on the Line, City Is Warned." 
 "States Are Facing Big Fiscal Crises, Governors Report."
"Down and Out, Golden Gate Is Planning to Pass the Hat."
For those who haven't noticed, there is an enormous fiscal crisis developing in this country. The National Governors Association, in a report issued three days before Thanksgiving, said states from coast to coast are facing "the most dire fiscal situation since World War II." 
"Nearly every state is in fiscal crisis," the governors said in a report done jointly with the National Association of State Budget Officers. The crisis at the state level is being played out against the backdrop of a national economy that continues to struggle.
"As states fight to balance their budgets, the solutions available to them are increasingly dire," the report said, "and some of the most difficult fiscal decisions have yet to be made."
In California, a paralyzing $21 billion budget gap is now expected to get even worse. In New York, the state is facing a deficit in the range of $10 billion at the same time that New York City is looking to the state for help in closing a municipal gap of more than $6 billion.
As the states flail about for ways to somehow balance their budgets, you can expect less and less state support for municipalities, which are locked in their own increasingly desperate struggles with the fiscal bogeyman.
"Amid the current economic downturn, the fall of the stock market, and federal and state budget crises, fiscal conditions in America's cities are also declining," according to the latest research report from the National League of Cities.
Politicians have been reluctant to speak candidly about these problems, probably because they have so little to offer in the way of solutions. Now, with budgets being held together with little more than safety pins and wishful thinking, the only options being presented to startled citizens are substantially higher taxes or draconian cuts in services, or both.
That may not be enough.
Last week I interviewed Felix Rohatyn, the financier who helped guide New York City through the nightmarish fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's. Local governments, said Mr. Rohatyn, do not have the resources to overcome the extraordinary fiscal pressures they are currently facing.
He said, "I've thought for a long time that since what's happening is happening all over the country, and a lot of it is recession-driven and stock market-driven (the loss of capital gains taxes), that there ought to be a national program to deal with it, essentially a revenue-sharing program."
While it might seem unlikely that the Bush administration would be interested in a large-scale program of assistance, Mr. Rohatyn believes that a concerted bipartisan effort by states and municipalities to spotlight the severity of the problems and the need for broader-based solutions might be persuasive.
He said: "There ought to be some kind of coalition of mayors and governors to petition the Congress as well as the administration for, say, a three-year program of special assistance to state and local governments financed by federal borrowing, since the federal government can do things we can't, namely run a deficit.
"And if there were ever a time to run a deficit, it would be to deal with this particular issue, because if the states are left to their own devices to close their gaps by cuts and by taxes, it's going to be very deflationary and recessionary."
Mr. Rohatyn said he also believes there is "an urgent need for significantly greater infrastructure investment all over the country." Some of that investment, which would be a source of job creation, would logically be linked to the homeland security issue.
"Everybody will tell you that this can't happen," said Mr. Rohatyn. "But I think the power of a real alliance of governors and mayors nationally, a bipartisan alliance, together with business and labor support, which I think you could get for this kind of program, especially if there was a fair amount of infrastructure investment tied to it, I think that's a program that could get a lot of public support."
Imagine, he said, if such a coalition were formed and a couple of senators, a Republican and a Democrat, were willing to take up its cause in Congress. "I think you could get some real steam behind this." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (66%); THANKSGIVING (56%); WORLD WAR II (55%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; URBAN AREAS 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; ROHATYN, FELIX G 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



68 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Poor Rural Schools Must Strive to Meet New Federal Rules 

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: DEMOPOLIS, Ala. 

 BODY:
The truck full of stones showed up at John Essex School without explanation, as if some unnamed saint had heard Loretta McCoy's despair. As principal of this school in Alabama's rural Black Belt, Ms. McCoy struggles to find money for essentials: library books, musical instruments, supplies and teachers. So when the stones appeared, Ms. McCoy knew it might be the closest John Essex would get to landscaping and got pushing.
 A pile went by the back door, filling a huge pothole the children waded through when it rained. Another truckload filled a sinkhole by the Dumpsters, where garbage trucks got stuck in mud, and a third went to craters where the children took recess. Her pleading got John Essex five deliveries of rock: not enough to level the school's entrance, but enough to give its principal a small dose of hope. 
 In impoverished rural schools like this, where even finding rock to fill potholes is a challenge, the new federal law known as No Child Left Behind is little more than a distant rumble. 
When the stones arrived, "it made my day," said Ms. McCoy, whose school about 100 miles west of Montgomery, near the Mississippi border, serves 264 students, all poor and black, from kindergarten through 12th grade.
Ms. McCoy has not yet heard from Montgomery about the federal law's dizzying set of new requirements: annual testing of students in reading and math from grades three through eight; transfer options for children in schools that fail for two years running; private tutoring after three years, paid for with federal money earmarked for poor schools.
According to a report the General Accounting Office issued in April, Alabama, along with 34 other states, failed to meet the testing and assessment requirements of the 1994 Comprehensive Education Reform act. The new law has tougher federal oversight.
But as the law takes effect across the country, remote, perpetually beleaguered schools like John Essex will be called upon to try to transform themselves into schools that can deliver consistent progress for every type of student. 
Three years ago, Ms. McCoy worked a miracle of sorts to rescue John Essex from a state takeover because of poor reading scores, through unrelenting study drills, pep rallies, daily vocabulary contests and even dinners for the children at the local Pizza Hut, paid for out of the teachers' pockets. But nobody is sure the school is up to the rigors of No Child Left Behind.
"I adore President Bush," said Martha Smelley, the seventh grade English teacher, who gives up her lunchtime to tutor children in reading. "When he says 'no child left behind,' though, he needs to be in the classroom for a month."
The cornerstone of John Essex bears the name of Gov. George Wallace and is dated 1966 -- three years after Wallace stood at the University of Alabama's door to bar two black students from attending. 
In its building, John Essex reflects its humble origins. Its cinder-block walls are unplastered, and nobody ever bothered with a ceiling to cover its electrical lines.
Its library is a trip back in time, with books that ponder how the Vietnam War will turn out, others that speak of landing on the moon as an ambitious dream, and another that explains disagreements among scientists over how long satellites can stay in orbit. "Some think they will stay in their path only 24 hours," notes the 1961 volume "Exploring by Satellite," by Franklyn M. Branley. "Others think they will remain aloft for 100 days or more."
To earn the equivalent of an academic diploma, which will allow them to attend a university, Alabama's students must master a foreign language. But there is no teacher at John Essex, so high school students tackle Spanish on their own, going through the textbook to learn conjugations and grasp the subjunctive. "I think I'm getting it," said Sherree Collier, a junior aiming for the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa.
There is a single teacher for chemistry, earth science, biology and all the other science classes, so there is little time to set up experiments in the school's laboratory, which stands dusty and silent. Dwindling enrollment has eliminated the home economics teacher, so the sewing machines that children might have been learning to use sit in the teachers' lounge instead.
Far more pressing than No Child Left Behind is the uncertainty emanating from Montgomery. In May, Roy Moore, chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, dismissed a lawsuit on educational equity, and the remedy established and upheld by four earlier courts, that aimed to more evenly distribute resources between black and white schools. Judge Moore most recently drew public attention by defying a federal court order to remove a two-and-a-half-ton monument inscribed with the Ten Commandments from the state courthouse.
Judge Moore threw out the agreement that would have poured resources into schools like John Essex. He contended that the courts had overstepped their bounds and were usurping the role of the legislature. 
In response, advocacy groups, business executives and state education officials have joined in a campaign to persuade the legislature to raise taxes by $1.6 billion for education. Alabama has one of the lowest tax burdens in the nation, and ranks 48th in terms of spending on education. Timber companies that extract lumber here in the Black Belt pay $1.42 per acre in property taxes, compared with $3.60 an acre in Mississippi. 
Kimble Forrister, state coordinator of Alabama Arise, a civic group, said Alabama's "tradition" was "not to do anything unless the courts make us." He added: "This court decided not to make us do the right thing. The State Department of Education and the Board of Education are trying to buck that history."
But the plan the department, board and business and civic groups are pitching maps out efficiencies achieved, in part, by shutting down schools with fewer than 269 students and consolidating them with larger schools nearby. Rather than helping John Essex, the plan's success could mean the school's end. John Essex is desperate to attract more students, and will give second chances to those expelled from other local schools, aggravating a discipline problem.
"If you have nothing extracurricular, how are you going to get more students?" asked Janet Daniels, an alumna whose five children now attend John Essex, and who runs a grocery store across the street.
Some are hoping that No Child Left Behind will channel more attention to rural schools. In much of the South, the law, which calls for breaking down student achievement by race and income level, will give taxpayers an X-ray of neglect, said Jim Watts, vice president for state services at the Southern Regional Education Board, an organization that advises 16 states on education policy. But, he said, without enough money, new standards won't mean much.
"Some children need more time, and more time costs more money," Mr. Watts said. "If you're going to extend the school day, school week, school year, or start them earlier in preschool, we're going to need more money to do it."
The law requires that students show annual improvement in standardized tests, which will pose a major challenge here.
Ms. McCoy says she suspects that when she was promoted to principal of John Essex five years ago, it was because she was not certified, and nobody cared enough to find a qualified principal. With enrollment falling after another school opened a few miles away and test scores dropping, John Essex has grown accustomed to rumors that it would be shut down or taken over by the state, and the principal and teachers feel themselves in an unrelenting race to prove the school worthy.
But Ms. McCoy, who dropped out of high school after becoming pregnant, rose to the challenge, much as she had after having four children. She had turned her life around by taking up studying again to earn her G.E.D., or general educational development, certificate and her teaching diploma. 
After becoming principal, she studied at night to earn a master's degree and gain her certification. All the while, she exhorted, cajoled, demanded and bribed John Essex's students into raising their standing in reading.
She was appointed after the local superintendent dropped in and discovered teachers watching soap operas in the library, which had been shut to students. The sense that the school was run like a big family was the biggest impediment to creating an environment of serious learning, Ms. McCoy said. Despite incremental boosts in test scores, she is still not certain she has succeeded.
Unable to attract a qualified music teacher or pay for instruments, the school lacks a band or music instruction. Aside from a piano, the only musical instruments in the school are wrist bells. With no money for an art teacher, Ms. McCoy urges teachers to weave art projects into their daily lessons. 
She also managed to get the school a part-time librarian and some new reading primers.
In the classrooms, the students who sit in the front appear to be there for the learning, while those in the back pass notes and crack jokes. Ephraim Mullins, who came out of retirement to teach English here, said good, motivated children can learn here, as they can anywhere else. His wife's great-grandfather, John Essex, had donated the land for the original school that stood here, financed by Julius Rosenwald, a scion of Sears, Roebuck & Company, in the 1920's. Now, Mr. Mullins said, he feels a real stake in the children's education.
"They really aren't getting anything to prepare them for the future," he said. 
Mr. Mullins suggested that if there were some extracurricular activities aside from football, basketball and cheerleading -- say, a school newspaper or a debating society -- students would treat the school, their teachers and themselves with more respect. 
Ms. Daniels, the alumna and parent, agrees. "Why can't they work it out," she asked, "to where each child in the system has an equal opportunity for education to each other child in the system?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cinder-block walls at John Essex School in Alabama are unplastered, and there is no ceiling to cover its electrical lines and duct work.; Loretta McCoy is principal at John Essex School in Demopolis, Ala. Her 264 students are all poor and black. (Photographs by Jamie Martin for The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RURAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); LIBRARIANS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BIOCHEMISTRY (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); MUSIC (57%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (57%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RURAL AREAS; BLACKS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; STATES (US); PRINCIPALS (SCHOOL); LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CHEMISTRY; EARTH SCIENCE; BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; MCCOY, LORETTA; MOORE, ROY S (CHIEF JUSTICE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES; DEMOPOLIS (ALA); ALABAMA

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



69 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2850 words

HEADLINE: With No Answers on Risks, Steroid Users Still Say 'Yes' 

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Gina Kolata, Jere Longman, Tim Weiner and Timothy Egan and written by Ms. Kolata. 

 BODY:
Patrick Keogan wanted to be big, like the men with the ripped muscles he saw at the gym. "I was training like an animal," he said, working out seven days a week. But he seemed to have reached his biological limit: 5 feet 8 inches tall, 150 pounds.
 "Finally, it dawned on me," he said. Those huge men at his gym who insisted they were simply lifting weights were dissembling. "There was something they were not telling me," Mr. Keogan said. Thus Mr. Keogan, a 30-year-old salesman who lives near Boston, entered the world of anabolic steroids -- testosterone and other drugs that act like it, which can build muscle, fast. 
 He soon was taking 4,000 milligrams of testosterone a week, which he bought from dealers at his gym. (A man his age normally produces about 35 milligrams a week.) Within 20 weeks, he weighed 200 pounds. "People would look at me," he said, and ask, "What did you do?" 
Now, as more and more men, and some women, are seeking large, chiseled bodies, more are learning the bitter secret of that look: It almost always takes some chemical assistance, from drugs that are often are illegal but are readily available.
Use of steroid drugs has spread over the years from weight lifters to bodybuilders to elite athletes to high school and college athletes and to groups, like gay men and gym aficionados, who simply want to improve their appearance.
Recently, three high school boys in a prosperous community in Utah were charged with smuggling the drugs from Mexico, planning to sell them to classmates.
Steroid use is hard to quantify -- federal surveys of adults' drug use do not ask about it. There is a huge underground market for anabolic steroids, including ones approved only for horses, and steady traffic by Americans to Mexico, where, as in many other countries, they are sold over the counter. Some people get prescriptions from doctors who overlook the fact that the only legal use of testosterone in the United States is to treat a real medical deficiency. Added to that is an enormous market in nutritional supplements, which are very loosely regulated and whose makers say they have the same effects as testosterone.
Prescriptions for anabolic steroids have soared in recent years, to 1.5 million in 2001 from 806,000 in 1997, according to IMS Health, a company that monitors drug sales. But it is impossible to know how much is being taken for legitimate medical needs. 
By all accounts, a small minority of Americans use the drugs, but medical experts are concerned. Their concern is over their own ignorance: who uses the drugs, why, for how long, and what are the medical consequences? Is it acceptable or recklessly dangerous to use them to alter the body? There have been no rigorous medical studies to provide answers to fundamental questions about long-term safety.
"There are concerns that on the one hand there may be something good here, but on the other hand there may be a public health problem brewing," said Dr. Marc Blackman, the clinical director and chief of the laboratory of clinical investigation at the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine at the National Institutes of Health. "The problem is substantial, and the chasm of ignorance is huge."
All along, there have been suspicions -- but very little solid evidence -- that anabolic steroids and drugs that act like them can lead to serious long-term effects, including heart attacks, strokes and cancer. There are stories that the drugs can sometimes turn placid people violent. There are concerns that in some sports, those who want to compete have little choice but to take them. 
"The average guy will tell you that he hasn't had any problems and doesn't know anyone who does," said Dr. Harrison G. Pope Jr., a Harvard Medical School psychiatrist who studies bodybuilding culture. Yet, he said, there are rare individuals who "have almost a Jekyll and Hyde personality change," becoming aggressive and violent.
That was what worried Mr. Keogan -- he quit after jumping out of his car to argue with another driver in a fit of rage, leaving his car to drift away. Now his body has shrunk to its former size, and he struggles to lift weights that were once a warm-up to his real lifting. 
Dr. Shalender Bhasin, an endocrinologist at Charles R. Drew University in Los Angeles, says it should not be surprising that people keep taking the drugs. They do build muscle, decrease fat and improve athletic performance. In the meantime, society is sending mixed messages: no one should take steroids, but athletes should be winners and everyone should strive to be muscular.
"There is some degree of denial and hypocrisy with the use of these compounds," Dr. Bhasin said. "We discourage it by punishing a few people now and then to show our displeasure, but we tolerate their use. We haven't taken a stand as a society, and the widespread use of these agents is reflective of our ambivalence."

A Trend Is Born
Muscles Get Bigger, And So Do Steroids
John D. Fair, a competitive weight lifter and historian of weight lifting at Georgia College and State University in Milledgeville, remembers his first foray into the world of pumping iron. He was a senior in high school, 5 feet 11 inches tall and just 129 pounds. He wore layers of shirts to make himself look bulkier. "The Charles Atlas 97-pound weakling thing is for real. I've been there," he said.
But that was 1961, a time when most men were uninterested in growing big muscles. "I was almost embarrassed to be lifting weights," Mr. Fair said. Coaches told athletes that if they lifted, they would become slow and musclebound, or develop hernias and knee injuries. But no one, except a few elite weight lifters, had even thought of using steroids, and those who did were doing it surreptitiously.
Anabolic steroids came to weight lifting in the 1950's, when Russians began taking testosterone and winning championships, Mr. Fair said. By 1960, a few American weight lifters had begun secretly taking them too. Within a few years, most elite weight lifters were using the drugs, said Terry Todd, a former champion weight lifter who is now a historian of weight lifting at the University of Texas at Austin.
By the end of the decade, other elite athletes had discovered the drugs. In 1969, the marathon champion Frank Shorter says, he watched a French hammer thrower, George Frenn, who died at an early age, inject a steroid into his leg.
Mr. Shorter, who is now chairman of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which performs drug tests for Olympic-related sports, said that before the 1972 Olympics, he attended an Olympic team meeting where American athletes were cautioned not to take steroids because they did not work. "I was sitting in the back of the room with the weight guys, and they were laughing," he said. "They literally had 'before' and 'after' pictures with them."
Drugs came later to women's sports. In East Germany and other Eastern bloc countries, female swimmers and other athletes were secretly taking steroids in the 1960's, but almost no female athletes elsewhere were using them. 
Jan Todd of the University of Texas at Austin became a competitive lifter in the 1970's when she married Terry Todd and began tagging along when he went to gyms. "I got caught up in this quest for strength," she said. Soon she was smashing world records. By the 1980's, however, many female weight lifters had begun taking steroids. Ms. Todd, who refused, saw her lifting career come to an end.
"She trained harder than anyone I've ever seen," Terry Todd said. But he added: "No matter how hard she trained, it was a foregone conclusion that these other women were going to catch her, and they did. It's frustrating. It takes the fun out of the sport."
One female power lifter, Tam Thompson, told Mr. Todd, in an interview he recorded on April 15, 1986, that she had begun taking drugs because she thought other women were taking them.
Eventually, Ms. Thompson said, her voice deepened "and I noticed these strange hairs showing up. I thought, 'Well, that's no big deal. A hair here, a hair there. Big deal. I can live with it.' The next cycle it got worse. But by then, I figured the damage had already been done, and I went ahead with the full cycle of steroids because I had a meet coming up." She added, "I've been off the drugs almost two years now, but I still have to shave every day."
As steroid use seeped into sports and bodybuilding, historians say, muscles became more desirable for ordinary men and women. Steroids were classified a controlled substance by Congress in 1990, but cultural change made them seem more appealing.
Men, Mr. Fair said, became entranced with Arnold Schwarzenegger and began craving big, hard bodies. Women, who had been barred from weight-lifting rooms, found that the doors had opened with the passage of Title IX, the 1973 law that required universities receiving federal funds to provide women with equal access to athletic facilities.
Now, Dr. Pope of Harvard said, the transformation is everywhere. Women in the centerfolds of men's magazines are increasingly muscular. Male models in advertisements and on magazine covers increasingly appear shirtless, muscles bulging.
Even G.I. Joe was affected. "G.I. Joe in the 1960's used to be perfectly ordinary looking," Dr. Pope said. But over the years, he added, the action figure pumped up.

The Black Market
Illegal to Sell, But Easy to Find
Cy Willson wanted testosterone, and he wanted his health insurer to pay for it -- the pure drug, produced for human and not veterinary use, could cost $20 a month for the dose he wanted. So he needed a prescription. But the only approved use is for people with demonstrated testosterone deficiencies.
So Mr. Willson, a 21-year-old student at a large Midwestern university, set out to give himself a deficiency. In the April 2001 issue of Testosterone magazine, in an article titled "Your Doctor, Your Dealer," he explained how he did it -- what symptoms to feign, what to eat (very little, and no carbohydrates or fat), what to drink (beer) and whether to exercise (yes, twice a day). A little sleep deprivation also helps, he wrote.
Mr. Willson says his testosterone levels plummeted and he got his prescription. He says he is taking testosterone "for aesthetic purposes," explaining that he gained 20 pounds of muscle.
How good is his scheme? "It is unproven, " said Dr. Blackman of the National Institutes of Health. But, he added, "each of those manipulations -- excesses of diet, exercise and alcohol, as well as sleep deprivation -- can lower testosterone levels."
For those who do not want to use such tactics, illicit sources of the drugs are easy to find. "It is sold by dealers, it is sold in gyms, it is sold over the Internet," said Dr. Charles E. Yesalis, a professor of health and human development at Pennsylvania State University and the author of the book "Anabolic Steroids in Sports and Exercise."
Some visit pharmacies. An American man in his 30's was recently spotted at a pharmacy in Tijuana, paying $258 for two small packets of Sostenon, an anabolic steroid. Others go to veterinary supply stores for drugs made for horses (their effects on humans have not been studied). At Viva Tijuana, a shopping center a two-minute walk from the border that has 40 pharmacies, PharmVet appears to be a pet-supply store. But a closer look reveals rows of anabolic steroids, made in Australia and Mexico. 
Other people buy supplements that purport to have the same effects as steroids. Whether this is true is not known, said Dr. Paul Coates, director of the Office of Dietary Supplements at the National Institutes of Health. "There are a lot of anecdotes that support both benefits and harms," Dr. Coates said. "Is that evidence? That's what we're dealing with."
The result has been subcultures of American society where, with a wink and a nod, men, and some women, routinely take the drugs. Some, Dr. Pope said, are models in fitness magazines or trainers in gyms, who insist that they got their bodies just by hard work. Some are gay men who may have started taking anabolic steroids to combat the muscle wasting and low energy that can result from an H.I.V. infection or antiviral drugs. With steroids, many hope to hide signs of the disease with muscles that suggest they are bursting with health.
In the mid-1980's, they began showing up at gyms with heavily gay clienteles: men with gaunt cheeks and sunken eyes, but large pectoral muscles and a network of bulging veins.
"I'm a poz hunk," Steve Bolerjack wrote in Poz, a magazine for people who are H.I.V. positive, describing his regimen of weight lifting and steroids to counter the skeletal look that can come from H.I.V. He said he initially obtained a prescription for steroids because he was concerned about his low energy, but found that the steroids gave him a look that drew a lot of compliments.
But the look -- a sculptured body, zero fat, shaved chest -- has also drawn some derision. People with a body that looks chemically enhanced are often disparagingly called Chelsea Boys, a reference to the Manhattan neighborhood with a large gay population.
"We struggle with it all the time," said Dr. Steve Becker, a San Francisco doctor who primarily treats H.I.V.-positive patients. "It's common to prescribe steroids as a way to counteract wasting. But I draw the line at giving them for purely cosmetic reasons."
Rumors of steroid use persist in all sports. Major League baseball will begin testing for it next year.
For athletes, the mixed messages are all too clear. Sports fans do not want to see smaller, slower linemen and backs in football or snooze through the 150th-fastest running of the 100 meters at the next Olympics, Dr. Yesalis said. "They don't give a damn. They just want to be entertained."

In Search of the Truth
The Street Word And the Textbooks
Shalender Bhasin, the endocrinologist, used to think he knew all about anabolic steroids. He knew what was in the textbooks and the medical journals, which was very different from the word on the street.
He knew that the folklore said the drugs increased muscle mass. "The scientific opinion was that that was hogwash," Dr. Bhasin said. The folklore said higher doses produced greater effects. He did not believe it. The textbooks told him there was no evidence for that notion. 
Then he did some research and found out that the scientists were wrong on all counts. The more he studied the drugs, the more he found himself confirming the street wisdom and not the medical textbooks.
"I must say I am humbled," Dr. Bhasin said. Now, he said, he has learned not just that testosterone works, but how. It appears to act on immature cells that could develop into either fat cells or muscle cells. Under the influence of testosterone, they choose the path leading to muscle. 
Testosterone also produces characteristic body changes, Dr. Pope said, with the most marked muscle growth in the upper body and the biceps. Dr. Pope has published photographs of men who did not use anabolic steroids and grew as big as possible without them, and of men who used them. His goal, he says, is to show what a steroid-enhanced body looks like as a way to discourage use of the drug. 
"It's the lying that really gets to me," Dr. Pope said. "I'll give a lecture and show a photograph of some huge bodybuilder and someone will say, 'Do you think he took steroids?' I'll say, 'Do you think World War II really happened?' "
But scientists say their ignorance about the array of anabolic drugs and their effects remains huge. Some of the drugs can lower levels of HDL cholesterol, the type that normally protects against heart disease. A lower HDL level may lead to an increased risk of heart attack and stroke. They may fuel the growth of some cancers, particularly those of the prostate. They suppress the body's own sex hormone production, which can cause infertility in people who are taking the drugs. But no one has done a long-term study of people who took huge doses of anabolic drugs, and for the most part, no one knows what medical problems the drugs may cause or how likely they are.
Even less is known about the nutritional supplements that are advertised as mimicking the effects of drugs like testosterone. In fact, only now is a study being conducted to see if any of these supplements increase muscle size. It is a study of guinea pigs.
Dr. Steven B. Heymsfield of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York, who is conducting the study, explained that male guinea pigs have a huge jaw muscle, but that the muscle shrinks if they are castrated. If the castrated animals are given testosterone, their jaw muscle grows back. Dr. Heymsfield's experiment is to give castrated male guinea pigs various supplements that are said to be as powerful as testosterone and see what happens to the jaw muscle. He will be testing a tiny fraction of the supplements on the market.
"There are thousands of them," Dr. Heymsfield said. "They make these extraordinary claims, and they probably are right. But the actual scientific literature is extraordinarily thin. You find, like, five papers, and they are not well done."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday described the use of steroids by men and women seeking larger, more chiseled bodies. The article traced the spread of the drugs from the world of weight lifting and bodybuilding to the general society. 
In discussing the history of steroid use in athletic competition, the article cited a comment by Frank Shorter, a former Olympic marathon champion, who said that before a meet in France in 1969 he saw the hammer thrower George Frenn inject a steroid into his leg. Mr. Shorter is now chairman of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which performs drug tests for Olympic-related sports. The article said Mr. Frenn was a Frenchman, and Mr. Shorter said he died at an early age.
On Monday, a freelance track journalist alerted The Times that Mr. Frenn was alive and was a native of the United States. Telephoned at home in Sacramento, Mr. Frenn said, "Frank Shorter never ever saw me inject myself." He declined to answer further questions. In an interview later that day, he added, "How dare Frank Shorter say something like that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Harrison G. Pope Jr. said the man on the right took large doses of steroids for many years, while the other man built his muscles solely by lifting weights. (Courtesy of Harrison G. Pope Jr.); Patrick Keogan, above, says he bulked up by taking 4,000 milligrams of testosterone a week. A comparison of G.I. Joe figures from 1982, 1992 and the mid-1990's suggests how widespread the desire for muscular bodies has become. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times); (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEROIDS (92%); WEIGHTLIFTING (92%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (65%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (61%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; STEROIDS; BLACK MARKETS; HOMOSEXUALITY; BODY BUILDING; WEIGHT LIFTING; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%) MEXICO; 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



70 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: The Pros and Cons Of Car Cellphones Are Called Equal 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Researchers say increased cellphone use has led to more crashes caused by drivers on the phone. But the value people place on being able to call from the road, they say, roughly equals the accidents' costs. 
 Opponents of banning cellphone use by drivers have cited studies suggesting that the benefits of being able to call from a car outweigh the toll from accidents. 
 Harvard researchers, drawing on previous studies of cellphones and government figures for car accidents, report in a new study that there is a growing risk from reliance on cellphones in cars.
Data on the number of crashes caused by cellphones is incomplete, said the study, which was to be released on Monday by the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis. But the study suggested that drivers on the phone were responsible for about 6 percent of accidents in the United States each year, killing an estimated 2,600 people and injuring 330,000.
The figures were reached by updating a 1997 study to reflect current cellphone use estimates. 
The cellphone industry found fault with the Harvard projections.
"It's sort of assumptions built on assumptions," said Kimberly Kuo, a spokeswoman for the Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association. "There are not a lot of substantial findings that allow us to make policy conclusions."
The researchers also updated previous studies of the economic costs of accidents caused by cellphones. Those costs added to $43 billion, about the same as the figure the researchers arrived at for the value that drivers put on their cellphones.
New York State banned cellphone use by drivers in June 2001. Six other states have some regulations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (95%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; RESEARCH; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



71 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: A Murderous Trend Defied 

 BODY:
New York City is continuing to buck a new big-city trend -- rising murder rates. Police say there were 503 murders as of mid-November, a 12 percent decline compared with a year earlier and about 70 percent below the figure nine years ago. The city's challenge, in the face of inevitable budget cuts, is to maintain its enviable distinction. 
 The picture is much bleaker elsewhere in the country. Los Angeles is experiencing a surge in homicides with 594 as of Nov. 20, compared with 587 for all of last year. Washington, D.C., has had more than 240 murders, a double-digit increase. An upturn nationally in murders, after a decade of overall decline, began to emerge last year. According to Federal Bureau of Investigation statistics for 2001, which were released recently, there was a 2.5 percent rise in murders nationwide. 
 Criminologists aren't able to identify with precision the causes for the national increase. But among the possibilities cited are a faltering economy, an increase in the more crime-prone teenage population, wars between competing drug gangs, an increase in inmates released from prisons where they were warehoused rather than rehabilitated and the diversion of police resources to antiterrorism activities. The problem is that all of these factors exist in New York as well.
There are many forces, such as changing demographics, over which no city, including New York, has much control. The expansion of the police force when Rudolph Giuliani was mayor must have helped push the city's crime rate down. Compstat, the crime mapping system used to increase management accountability that has been copied by many other cities, also may deserve some credit. Now that the Police Department is facing inevitable budget cuts, Commissioner Raymond Kelly will have to be twice as canny as the smart people who preceded him in order to keep the number of murders in New York from ballooning again. No one wants to see a return to anything approaching the record levels of previous years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); CRIME RATES (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



72 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
An Uneven Road to Respectab ility For The San Francisco Chronicle

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In the social ecosystem of the Bay Area, The San Francisco Chronicle has never been an alpha male. 
 Despite a talented staff and a region brimming with seamy dealings to be investigated, The Chronicle has struggled journalistically while its persistent thirst for respect remains unslaked. 
 When the Hearst corporation took over The Chronicle for $660 million two years ago, merging its staff with that of former arch-rival The San Francisco Examiner, all of that was supposed to change. But since the arrival of the top Examiner editor Phil Bronstein, internal feuding and corporate reversals have delayed the debut of the "world-class newspaper" that Hearst executives had promised.
Now, The Chronicle's editors and publisher are once again declaring that the newspaper is on its way to excellence. 
As evidence of progress, they point to a series of California journalism awards for in-depth investigations, like its series on the San Francisco police department's failure to catch criminals and the FBI's spying at the University of California at Berkeley. 
The paper's executives are also proud of recent additions to the paper, including a new weekly wine section and a regular feature, "Chronicle Watch," which takes on local irritants like dirty swimming pools and broken sidewalks. 
And perhaps most important, there is the newest arrival in the top editing ranks. Robert J. Rosenthal, the former executive editor at The Philadelphia Inquirer who is highly regarded by peers and former employees, became the new managing editor, reporting to Mr. Bronstein, about a month ago. 
But for all the awards and plans, The Chronicle's progress has been uneven at best. The newspaper has stumbled through several initiatives that were either abandoned or scaled back. Today there is less to read compared with two years ago. And Chronicle executives have told staff members that the newspaper's financial losses have been in the double-digit millions in the last two years, though the hemorrhage has begun to abate.
Still, as Orville Schell, the dean of the graduate school of journalism at Berkeley said, "The pieces are assembling for The Chronicle to still make a dash for greatness." 
The timing, though, is not ideal, he said. "Probably the most convenient moment is when a paper is sold and a new regime comes on. But in this circumstance, it was quite complicated." 
Hearst's takeover of The Chronicle coincided with the free fall of the Bay Area's economy, from which the region still has not recovered. The Chronicle does not release its advertising revenue, but help-wanted classified revenues -- an important indicator of a newspaper's financial vitality -- fell about $60 million, or 75 percent, from 2000 to 2002, Chronicle executives confirmed. 
Plans to improve the paper collided with the need to save money. Regionally zoned editions, with special local content, were scrapped after the merger as ill-conceived and labor intensive. Now a new zoned edition is planned for East Bay communities like Oakland and Berkeley. 
An afternoon edition, inaugurated not long after the merger, folded on Sept. 27. Despite that edition's demise, the publisher, John Oppedahl, argues that it was "a big success," discouraging the arrival of competitors like the free tabloid, Metro, which is distributed in mass-transit systems in Philadelphia and Toronto.
The dysfunctions in newsroom relationships were perhaps the hardest problem to solve, according to several present and former Chronicle journalists. For months, The Chronicle's two top editors -- Mr. Bronstein and the managing editor, Gerald Roberts -- prickled at each other as their partisans feuded around them. 
"When you grafted one paper on the other, all the things that could go wrong did," said Wendy Miller, the assistant managing editor for metropolitan news, who arrived from The Los Angeles Times shortly before the merger. She added, "Everyone had a 'them' " -- a group of hostile former competitors bent on subversion. "So the normal, somewhat adversarial relationship between two reporters and an editor, or a reporter and a reporter, would be compounded by a sense that someone was doing something to somebody."
Mr. Bronstein, who had been editor of the underdog Examiner and had called his city-centric, splashy publication "the un-Chronicle," forced out Mr. Roberts early this year. Neither man would discuss the circumstances of Mr. Roberts's departure.
After Mr. Roberts left, two deputy managing editors also departed abruptly. Narda Zacchino, the assistant executive editor, said that the friction "has diminished tremendously" the last few months. And as George Irish, the president of Hearst Newspapers, said in an interview, "Phil has shown leadership strengths and, frankly, where necessary has made the hard decisions and moved forward."
In part, the new optimism is born of a new organizational reality. Of the top four newsroom executives, all but Mr. Bronstein are outsiders who have arrived since the merger.
When he took on his post two years ago, Mr. Bronstein was no stranger to the area. A staple of the gossip columns since his 1998 marriage to the actress Sharon Stone, he has, in the past, offered to hunt stray alligators plaguing the city. More recently, he has discarded his cowboy boots and gone barefoot into the cage of a Komodo dragon, which promptly attacked his big toe.
This keen competitor has been cast as a conciliator. It was not a natural fit, though he made it a point to create teams that blended former Chronicle and Examiner journalists.
As John Curly, a newly appointed deputy managing editor, said recently: "Before, he had The Chronicle as the Great Satan to rally his troops. Now the enemy is us. That's a harder trick to pull off."
Asked what basic guidance he gives his staff, Mr. Bronstein offers don't's, not do's. Among his beliefs: That there should be "no received culture." That "good enough isn't." That "a failure to accurately reflect the Bay Area in a cultural way is a profound failure." And that "we are not the paper of record."
The only other San Francisco daily is The Examiner, which has been overhauled as a tabloid. Under new owners, its influence has dwindled. Asked who his competitors were now, Mr. Bronstein said, "The biggest competition is our own reputation." 
Reputation can lag reality in the newspaper business. James Risser, the former head of Stanford University's Knight Fellows program, has declared in The Columbia Journalism Review that The Chronicle is a significantly improved newspaper since the merger. But Larry Bensky, a talk show host for the Berkeley public radio station KPFA, said that the post-merger Chronicle "has gone kind of sideways and remains mediocre."
The space for news and commentary has been cut by 6.1 percent in daily papers and 12.8 percent in Sunday editions since 2000. This cuts the cost of newsprint, the second-biggest expense. Labor costs, the biggest expense, are more intractable. After promising no merger-related layoffs, Hearst executives have found other ways -- primarily through buyouts -- to cut newsroom staff to 485, from about 520.
While the ability to cut staff is constricted, the need to sell more papers, particularly on advertising-rich Sundays, is acute. The Chronicle's performance is improving on Sunday but sagging on weekdays. Weekday circulation, which jumped by about 60,000 copies after the merger, has flattened at about 512,000. Sunday circulation is beginning to regain lost ground, up 16,000 in the past year to about 540,000.
Readers will come, Mr. Bronstein believes, if the newspaper makes them feel part of a region that is sophisticated and special. He has a growing corps of part-time foreign correspondents. And he pressed hard for "Chronicle Watch" even when subordinates were skeptical.
Such features, Mr. Schell says, are all very well, but not crucial. "What I think we need is something really significant to be done at the center, not at the peripheries," he said.
But what is the newspaper's core? Local news? Mr. Bronstein likes it, but Ms. Zacchino's front-page choices often stress broad-based health articles or foreign and national news. Maybe business coverage, which critics say is much improved?
Mr. Bronstein wants all these things, but for him any question about the newspaper's core is as much about spirit as about specifics. What he wants, he says, is to "get some passion" in the operation.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the performance of The San Francisco Chronicle in the two years since its purchase by the Hearst Corporation misspelled the surname of a deputy managing editor. He is John Curley, not Curly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Narda Zacchino, assistant executive editor; Phil Bronstein, executive editor; and Robert J. Rosenthal, managing editor, discuss an issue of The San Francisco Chronicle, which is owned by Hearst. (Thor Swift for The New York Times) Chart: "Little Lift"After Hearst took over The San Francisco Chronicle in November 2000, the circulation got a quick lift from readers of its former paper, The Examiner. But The Chronicle has not been able to build on that base. Graph tracks the Chronicle's average circulation (Sunday and weekday), for six months ended September each year since 1994. (Sources: Audit Bureau of Circulations; The San Francisco Chronicle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); PUBLISHING (75%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (74%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); POLICE FORCES (53%) NEWSPAPERS 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (85%); SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE; SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER; HEARST CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; BRONSTEIN, PHIL; ROSENTHAL, ROBERT J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



73 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Black Market For SoftwareIs Sidestepping Export Controls

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Digital piracy, often thought of as the illicit trade in music, office software and games, has moved into more dangerous territory.
 A black market has emerged for scientific and engineering software powerful enough to fall under United States export restrictions. Such software can be used in a wide range of tasks like designing rockets or nuclear reactors or predicting the path of a cloud of anthrax spores. 
 Intellectual property "isn't just Napster," and it "isn't just copying Madonna's songs," one Justice Department official said, adding, "It's the software that allows you to model the fuel flow in a fighter jet."
Much of the specialized software cannot be exported legally to "pariah" nations like Libya, North Korea or Iraq. Yet Steve M. Legensky, the founder and general manager of Intelligent Light, an engineering software company in Lyndhurst, N.J., has found bootleg copies of his company's software, which is bound by the export controls, being offered on the Internet alongside sophisticated engineering wares from 120 other companies. Many of those companies are also subject to more stringent rules against exporting their technology to a broader list of countries deemed a military risk by the United States government. 
The illicit copies of the software from Intelligent Light, which in licensed versions typically sells for $12,000, was being sold by Chinese entrepreneurs for $200. The posted advertisement for the wares promised that a "step-by-step install guide and crack file make it easy to install and use!" Which means that anyone with a modem and a little cash can evade the export control rules, even those that apply to prohibited countries.
"All they need to do is get a wire transfer, and they can get the software over the Internet," Mr. Legensky said.
Jeanne L. Mara, the company's president and chief executive, said, "It stinks that people can get it for nothing -- but it absolutely stinks that these guys can get it for nothing."
But when companies want to take action against a breach of the export controls, they often find themselves frustrated -- whether because the United States government is reluctant to crack down on emerging trade allies like China or because software piracy over the Internet is almost impossible to stop, even when there are attempts to do so.
Ms. Mara said that she had made the rounds in the Commerce, Justice, State Departments and the Small Business Administration. For her troubles, she said, she got many sighs and apologies from officials who seemed averse to addressing the delicate politics and economics of United States-China relations. 
Black-market sales and violations of copyright are not new, and China has long been notoriously lax in its protection of international copyright. The Business Software Alliance, an industry lobbying group with a vigorous anti-piracy program, estimates that 92 percent of the business software used in China is pirated.
Robert M. Kruger, the group's vice president for enforcement, said that despite small declines in the rate of piracy, the dollar amount was growing as the nation developed. "The bottom line is, we have still a tremendous amount of work to do to make China a safer place for intellectual property, and software in particular," he said.
Though the case against piracy is passionately argued by paid advocates for the music and film industries and Silicon Valley, the Business Software Alliance's own surveys show that most consumers find it hard to summon outrage. They see the fight as a way to ensure that Bill Gates and Britney Spears get every penny coming to them.
Not all concerns about software piracy, however, are about ensuring that the rich become richer. When software like Visual Light shows up on the wrong desktop, issues of national security come into play, said Tom Kurke, the vice president for business development and global alliances for Bentley Systems, which helps companies collaborate on and manage projects in architecture, engineering and construction. "Piracy is bad enough, but piracy in these blacklisted countries is three times worse," he said.
His company, which is a member of the Business Software Alliance, has also found black market sites that sell its product, which can be exported only under restrictions like those that govern Intelligent Light. "We're absolutely concerned from the revenue side of the pirating of our intellectual property -- the stealing of software," he said. "But there is a legitimate concern for these technologies being used in countries where you wouldn't want these used."
William A. Reinsch, president of the National Foreign Trade Council in Washington, said, "If you're talking about bad guys -- and Iraq is a classic example -- you don't want to give them the ability to get out of the stone age if you can avoid it."
In Ms. Mara's case, "as soon as the word 'Chinese' came up, everybody ran in the other direction," she said. At least at the Justice Department, she said, the officials and agents recognized the threat her software posed if it reached the wrong people.
Scott S. Christie, an assistant United States attorney in Newark, said that Ms. Mara was presenting a bedeviling problem: trying to enforce United States copyright and export rules in other countries. "We scratched our heads and gave a lot of thought as to exactly what we could do, given the realities," he said.
And that's where it stands, he said. "We're still trying to resolve in our minds what the best approach is going to be," he added. "Unfortunately, it's an issue of sovereignty and diplomacy, which is sort of outside of my realm and what I do."
It is a common refrain. At the Defense Department, a spokeswoman said that the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which monitors weapons sales and exports, did not watch individual software packages closely. "The software that we're interested in," she said, "is either embedded code or firmware" -- that is, the software that is built into chips -- as part of a completed weapon system.
The United States has made progress in recent years in setting up agreements with China to address law enforcement issues, Justice Department officials said. "The Department of Justice will review any matter, and consider taking appropriate prosecutorial measures" to combat software piracy, said John G. Malcolm, deputy assistant attorney general in the criminal division.
But in practice, mounting an international investigation is daunting, and reserved for such prominent cases as the inquiry into accusations of of illegal fund-raising by Democrats by Chinese donors during the 1996 presidential campaign.
The biggest problem with policing software exports, current and past officials say, is the ephemeral nature of the wares: with the Internet, software can slip past national barriers with the simple click of a mouse. When experts like Mr. Reinsch talk of trying to restrict the movement of software, they tend toward metaphors of genies and bottles, bubbles under wallpaper and putting toothpaste back in tubes. "This drove me crazy as an export official," said Mr. Reinsch, who led the Bureau of Export Administration in the Clinton administration. "How do you enforce this?"
Mr. Reinsch and the federal government learned the hard way in the 1990's, when the Clinton administration tried to limit the export of strong encryption software. The nation's high-technology industries argued that the policy only hurt American businesses and honest buyers because the technology could be developed anywhere and could be distributed illicitly via modem. Ultimately, the White House relented and softened export restrictions.
The idea of restraining other software is similarly quixotic, said Stewart A. Baker, a former general counsel of the National Security Agency and a prominent Clinton administration voice opposing the spread of strong encryption technology internationally. "In the crypto area, you had no real support from industry, and they were delighted to see it escape" to other countries, he said. "But here with the best will in the world, you see it's escaped."
To his mind, Mr. Baker said, Intelligent Light's problems are part of a broader trend of mistakenly looking at national security issues as problems for law enforcement. "O.K., you can't prosecute 'em," he said. "Well, duh." Instead, he said half-jokingly, the government could be exploring alternatives. "Surely, this is the case where you ought to call a government-funded hacker and say, 'Screw it up!' " and make it more difficult for the black-market entrepreneurs to conduct their business.
Another expert in technology and the difficulties of export, however, said he was not worried about the wanderings of high-end engineering software. "If I had my druthers, it would not go to Iraq," said James A. Lewis, a senior fellow and director of the technology program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
But software alone is not enough to do great harm, he said, adding that with programs like those used to create nuclear weapons, it is also crucial to have the data generated by past bomb tests. "It's the data sets, at the end of the day, that make a difference," Mr. Lewis said.
He joked that the software companies could do better to enlist some real muscle. "Maybe they can get the M.P.A.A. to chase after these guys," he said, referring to the Motion Picture Association of America.
Ms. Mara and Mr. Legensky are not laughing, however. They say they used to receive the occasional handwritten letter with postmarks and stamps from Iraq bearing Saddam Hussein's picture. "We have heard of your beautiful software," the letters would typically say. "We would like to buy it."
Since the software became part of the illicit Internet bazaar, Ms. Mara said, the stream of exotic postmarks has tapered off.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 12, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Dec. 2 about online black market sales of scientific and engineering software subject to export controls misstated the name of a product made by Intelligent Light that has been sold illicitly. It is Fieldview, not Visual Light.
An article in Business Day on Dec. 2 about online black market sales of scientific and engineering software subject to export controls misstated the name of a product made by Intelligent Light that has been sold illicitly. It is Fieldview, not Visual Light.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve M. Legensky is founder and general manager of Intelligent Light, an engineering software concern in Lyndhurst, N.J. Bootleg copies of his software have been sold in China for a fraction of the official cost. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE (91%); EXPORT CONTROLS (91%); ANTHRAX (90%); ENGINEERING SOFTWARE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WIRE TRANSFERS (63%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COPYRIGHTS; ATOMIC ENERGY; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ANTHRAX; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: ENGINEERING SOFTWARE CO (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%)

PERSON: MADONNA (78%) SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) CHINA; LIBYA; NORTH KOREA; IRAQ; ; 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



74 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
IRAQ'S NEIGHBORS SEEM TO BE READY TO SUPPORT A WAR

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON with NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Most of Iraq's neighbors seem prepared to support an American military campaign to remove Saddam Hussein from power. But their backing is not assured and rests on several political and military factors. 
 To avoid an angry reaction from their publics, Arab leaders are putting conditions on the nature of any military action. They say it must be perceived as a means to enforce the United Nations demands that Iraq disarm, not as a unilateral American attempt to redraw the geopolitical map in the Middle East. 
 Iraq's neighbors are also looking for reassurance that Washington is prepared to make an economic and military commitment to prevent the nation from breaking apart along ethnic lines and plunging into civil war if President Hussein is ousted. 
They also want to be confident that an American military campaign will be short and carried out with the fewest civilian casualties. The nightmare scenario for many Middle East countries is a drawn-out war in which a defiant Mr. Hussein resists the American onslaught from a bastion in Baghdad as Al Jazeera broadcasts reports about a hungry and frightened population.
In short, Washington has made considerable headway in the diplomacy of lining up support for a potential military campaign to dethrone Mr. Hussein. That headway was already evident in the unanimous Security Council resolution of Nov. 8, demanding that Iraq submit a full account of its weapons of mass destruction and cooperate with United Nations weapons inspectors. 
Still, there are likely to be gradations of political and military support, as governments calculate how closely they want to align themselves with Washington. There are likely to be different types of rewards from the Americans including, in some cases, financial assistance.
The next few weeks are crucial for the Bush administration as it tries to put the diplomatic building blocks in place for a potential invasion.
Washington recognizes as much. Today, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D. Wolfowitz leaves for Brussels, London and Turkey to promote a tough policy against Iraq. 
He is just the first of an array of senior American officials who will be traveling around the world to make the Bush administration's case. The others include Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage and Stephen J. Hadley, the deputy national security adviser. 
A milestone will come on Dec. 8, the deadline for Iraq to present a report to the Security Council on its programs to develop weapons of mass destruction. American and British intelligence agencies have charged that Iraq still husbands biological and chemical arms and has continued efforts to develop nuclear arms and prohibited medium-range missiles. 
If Iraq's report stops short of acknowledging clandestine efforts to make prohibited weapons, the Bush administration is certain to seize on that as an illustration of bad faith. 
But it may be hard for Washington to persuade Iraq's neighbors that such a finding is a sufficient reason to go to war, especially if Baghdad does not interfere with the work of the weapon inspectors and if the monitors do not uncover any hard evidence of an Iraqi violation.
At the same time, the Bush administration is trying to assure nervous allies that a conflict will not be prolonged and that the United States will have the staying power to help rebuild Iraq. Iraq has already tried to counter those assurances by conjuring up the specter of bloody street fighting in Baghdad.

Smaller Gulf States
Kuwait may be the staunchest United States ally in the Persian Gulf. Kuwaiti officials are bitter about Iraq's 1990 invasion of their country and see the Hussein government as a potential menace. 
Since American-led forces evicted Iraqi forces from Kuwait in 1991, that nation has cooperated closely with the American military. It has allowed United States Army and Marine training on its territory. A new American base is being constructed south of Kuwait City. American and British warplanes patrol Iraq's skies from air bases in Kuwait and, if allied planes are fired on, they carry out bombing missions. The United States flies its Predator drone from an air base in Kuwait. 
Like his counterparts, Kuwait's minister of state for foreign affairs, Dr. Muhammad al-Sabah, couched his nation's support as a matter of enforcing the will of the United Nations. But he is an unabashed supporter of a change in the Iraqi government. 
Critics complain that ousting Mr. Hussein might plunge the region into chaos, but the Kuwaiti minister argues that Iraq is already divided, between an autonomous Kurdish enclave in the north, a rebellious Shiite population in the south and central region where the Iraqi government works its will. 
"We have a dysfunctional country, a fractured country and we have an unstable political system," he said. "There is no chance that the country can be reunited under the current system and the current regime. The Kurds have made it very clear that the only way they come back as part a united Iraq is in a new government that respects human rights. There needs to be regime change to pull the country back together."
While Kuwait potentially has much to gain by a change of leadership in its northern neighbor, the support of other gulf states is more modulated. 
Officials in Bahrain would be happy if a way was found to avoid a war, which could scare away potential investors and harm its budding tourist industry. But the headquarters for the United States Fifth Fleet is in Bahrain, and the state has a history of cooperating closely with the American military. 
Last spring, thousands of demonstrators marched in Bahrain to protest the Israeli military move back into the occupied West Bank in force, and one man was shot dead outside the American Embassy.
Protests over Iraq might not prove as virulent. The strongest opposition to the Sunni Muslim Khalifa family that rules Bahrain comes from the tiny island's Shiite Muslim majority, which might support moves to free their fellow Shiites in Iraq from the widespread oppression they have experienced under Mr. Hussein.
Qatar, to the south, has also sought to maintain close ties with Washington. It is allowing the United States Central Command to set up a command center at As Sayliyah that the American military plans to use to run a war against Iraq. It also spent more than $1 billion building Al Udeid Air Base to encourage the United States to station its planes there. Washington has not yet asked Qatar if it could use the installations to attack Iraq. 
Like Oman and the United Arab Emirates, Qatar will find it easier to go along if there seems to be a broad coalition, though this would not necessarily need to take the form of a second Security Council resolution, said Patrick N. Theros, a former American ambassador to Qatar. 
Mr. Theros said that most gulf states "want to be able to justify to their own population and the rest of the world that there is an international coalition that binds them."
"They want to have some degree of confidence that the end game is not going to be a breakdown and dismemberment of Iraq," he continued. "And they want to be confident that the war will be over real quick. There would be problems sustaining their support if this were to drag on for three or six months."

Saudi Arabia
One of the most crucial cases is Saudi Arabia. Saudi cooperation would be very important politically for the signal it could send to other states in the region. It would also be very important militarily. 
The deployment of American ground forces could be much easier if they were able to disembark at ports in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province and drive north to assembly areas in Kuwait. The United States has an air command center at Prince Sultan Air Base outside Riyadh, which it would like to use to run an air war over Iraq. 
Currently, the United States is not allowed to use Saudi air bases to carry out bombing strikes in Iraq in retaliation for Iraqi attacks on American and British planes that patrol southern and northern Iraq. It would easier to conduct an campaign against Iraq if that limitation was rescinded. 
Many people inside and outside Saudi Arabia believe that the country will ultimately cooperate with the United States if there is a war. To refuse such cooperation would result in a serious deterioration of the Saudi-American relationship that has provided the kingdom both protection and prestige in the Arab world for 60 years. 
The government and the religious establishment are already facing a growing Islamic movement that questions their legitimacy because they have allowed a non-Muslim military force into the Arabian Peninsula. 
With Arab anti-American sentiment on the rise, Saudis say the United States must show that it has exhausted all other options and that it has a clear legal sanction by the United Nations before undertaking any military action. Otherwise, a war could destabilize the region and "turbo-charge the recruitment process for anti-American terrorism," as one Saudi official put it privately.
The Saudis might try to keep much of the cooperation out of public view. That would reduce their political problems, but make the cooperation less useful to Washington, politically and militarily.

Turkey
The United States needs the cooperation of Persian Gulf states to mount an attack from the south, and it needs Turkey's support to open up a northern front. That front would vastly increase the pressure on the overstretched Iraqi military. 
The Pentagon wants to be able to fly airstrikes from bases in Turkey, like Incirlik Air Base, as it did during the Persian Gulf war. Administration officials imply that they also see a role for the Turkish Army. 
Turkey's new government led by an Islamic-based party has suggested that it would support an American attack on Iraq, and it will be asked for specifics on Tuesday when Mr. Wolfowitz visits Ankara.
Upon taking office last month, Prime Minister Abdullah Gul suggested that his government and Turkey's formidable army might go along with an American attack.
"As far as Iraq is concerned, of course the first thing is to avoid war," Mr. Gul said in an interview. "But at the same time we don't want to see weapons of mass destruction in a neighboring country."
The Bush administration is trying to win Turkey's support by backing the country's application to join the European Union, offering financial aid and giving an assurance that Washington will not support the establishment of independent Kurdish state in northern Iraq. The United States also want NATO to reaffirm that it would come to Turkey's aid in the event of an Iraqi counterattack.

Iran
Having fought off an invasion by Mr. Hussein for most of the 1980's at the cost of a million dead and wounded, Iran would be pleased to see him fall. But it does not relish the idea that longstanding nemesis, even if they rarely call it the Great Satan anymore, would be the one to do it.
The fact that President Bush labeled Iran a member of the "axis of evil," along with Iraq and North Korea, only added to their concern that once American troops reach Baghdad, they just might just intervene in Tehran.
To date, all official public statements have been staunchly opposed to the war. Both the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and President Mohammad Khatami have said any war would only bring instability to the region.
Still, Iran pretty much stayed out of the last gulf war. It allowed much of Iraq's Air Force to take shelter in Iran in tandem with the first allied attacks, then kept them as war reparations. 
There are signs that Iran may stay on the sidelines this time or even offer limited cooperation. The Iranian Navy has closed its waterways to vessels trying to smuggle oil and other products from Iraq. This has helped the United States tighten its embargo on Iraqi trade that is not specifically authorized.
Iran has also allowed Ayatollah Muhammad Bakir al-Hakim, an Iraqi Shiite cleric who has lived in exile in Tehran, to work with the American-sponsored efforts to organize the Iraqi resistance. Iran is dominated by Shiite Muslims, always eager to find ways to support other Shiites living in the sea of Arab Sunni Muslims. Many of Iran's leading clerics studied in Iraq at the seminaries in Najaf and Karbala, where senior religious leaders were assassinated, exiled or otherwise heavily repressed by the Hussein government. 
The Iranian military also has something to gain from the ouster of Mr. Hussein. The collapse of his government would rob the main opposition group, the Mujahedeen al Khalq, of the Iraqi bases they use to attack Iran.

Other Middle East Nations
During more than 20 years in office, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt has been a zealous proponent of stability. He has avoided any policy that might risk getting Egyptians out on the streets or inflaming the zealous Muslim opposition that his government put down violently a decade ago. 
Egypt's position toward any war against Iraq mirrors that of the Arab world officially. It supports the weapons inspections and has encouraged Iraq to abet the process, and it does not want Washington to use inspections as a pretext for war. 
There has been no great rapport between Iraq and Egypt since the first gulf war, when Egyptian troops joined the coalition forces. This time around, Egypt has made it clear that it will not send troops. But given the roughly $2 billion in American aid that helps keep the government afloat and Washington's efforts to forge an international coalition, Egypt is likely to allow the United States to use its air bases for refueling and supplying troops. Suez Canal traffic would probably not be interrupted as Egypt pretty much treats it as an international waterway. 
In Jordan, King Hussein damaged his country's relations with the United States a decade ago by refusing to join the allied coalition in the gulf war, although he did condemn the invasion of Kuwait. His actions were popular among Jordanians. 
The new king, his son Abdullah II, wants to avoid possible problems with local supporters of Mr. Hussein. Hence he is pushing the idea that Jordan will try to remain on the sidelines, vehemently denying reports that the ruling Hashemite family, which used to reign in Iraq too, has an interest in returning to the throne there. 
He has also said American forces will not use Jordan as a launching pad, characterizing recent maneuvers there as a routine, annual event.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists at the pool in one of the many hotels in Manama, Bahrain. Bahrainis worry about the effect on tourism of a war against Iraq. (Getty Images); At the Kuwait stock exchange, traders must weigh the consequences of a war against Iraq. Kuwait could have much to gain from an Iraqi leadership change. In the 1990-91 gulf crisis, Iraq halted Kuwait's oil production. (Getty Images); Thousands of Turkish antiwar demonstrators gathered in a large square in Istanbul yesterday. The banner above read "No War in Iraq." (Associated Press)(pg. A10) Map of the Middle East highlighting military Bases: Bases that may or may not be used if the United States attacks Iraq. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) UNITED NATIONS; AL JAZEERA (TELEVISION NETWORK) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); TURKEY (93%); BAHRAIN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); QATAR (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) IRAQ; TURKEY; SYRIA; JORDAN; SAUDI ARABIA; KUWAIT; IRAN; QATAR

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



75 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Iraq's Neighbors Put Conditions on U.S. War
Most of Iraq's neighbors seem prepared to support an American military campaign to remove Saddam Hussein from power. However, their backing is not assured and rests on several political and military factors. A1

High Intrigue for Inspectors
With only a handful of 1,000 suspected weapons sites in Iraq checked, the inspections have already set a pattern of tension and intrigue. Everyone involved entered the process knowing that war would be likely if the inspections fail. A1

War Support From Australia
The Australian government would like to see the U.N. charter updated to reflect the threat from terrorists. Statements by Prime Minister John Howard have signaled that the country is prepared to give military support to an offensive in Iraq, alarming Australia's neighbors. A11

Disputed Attack in Iraq
Western warplanes bombed southern Iraq in an attack that Iraqi officials said killed four people and wounded 27 at oil company offices. The United States military said the strike was aimed at Iraqi air defenses. A10

U.S. Airstrike in Afghanistan
American B-52 bombers hit positions held by two factions that have been fighting each other in western Afghanistan, a United States Army spokesman said. Special Forces were patrolling in Afghanistan when they came under fire, and the troops called for air support. A10

Tense Investigation in Kenya
Kenyans stepped forward with detailed accounts of three men fleeing Mombasa's airport shortly after two surface-to-air missiles narrowly missed an Israeli airliner. The accounts came amid signs of increasing tension between Kenyan and Israeli investigators over the case. A9

Funeral for Israeli Victims
A funeral for two young boys killed in the attacks in Kenya swelled to several hundred mourners and a parade of dignitaries led by Foreign Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. A9

Palestinians Killed in Gaza
Two Palestinians were killed in the Gaza Strip in an Israeli military operation, including a 70-year-old man who was crushed when Israeli soldiers destroyed his house. Two men, apparently Palestinians, bailed out of their car seconds before an Israeli helicopter gunship destroyed it. A9

Surpluses While India Starves
India's government is sitting on millions of tons of grain surpluses while children and adults wilt away from hunger-related causes. Persistent scarcity surrounded by such bounty has become a source of shame for a nation that has taken pride in its agricultural turnaround. A3

Discouraging Forecast for Bali
Bali's tourism collapsed after the terrorist attacks there, and the return of the foreign visitors is only slowly starting again. Indications of an early recovery are not encouraging, economists say. A8

NATIONAL A13-19

Leadership Serves Notice On House Spending
The House leadership has pulled in the reins on the 13 Republican members who control most discretionary federal spending. Subcommittee chairmen will now be selected by the House speaker, the majority leader and their close circle. The message was unmistakable: Congressional appropriators will have to follow their leadership's wishes. A1

Pressure Building at F.B.I.
Just two weeks after imploring his agents to make counterterrorism their top priority, F.B.I. Director Robert S. Mueller 3d has warned them in even stronger terms that he will not tolerate "bureaucratic intransigence." A1

Assurances From Kissinger
Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, appointed last week to lead an investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks, said he would sever ties with any of his clients if they presented conflicts of interest. A12

New Senate Intelligence Head
Pat Roberts, a Republican from Kansas who has been highly critical of the Congressional inquiry into the Sept. 11 attacks, is in line to lead the Senate Intelligence Committee. A12

Criticism From Ex-Bush Aide
A former member of the Bush administration says in a magazine interview that the White House values politics over domestic policy, lacking both policy experts and an apparatus to support them, and has failed to achieve a "compassionate conservative" agenda. A16

Questions on Insurance Deal
A deal between Texas state officials and Farmers Insurance Group gave a reprieve for 700,000 home insurance customers who faced cancellation of their policies if Farmers carried through its threat to abandon the state. But critics said the deal favored Farmers and did not address root problems. A18

Pornography in the Library
Some people using computers at public libraries are clicking away at sexually explicit material, creating a thorny issue for libraries nationwide: how to balance community standards against the First Amendment rights of patrons. A13

EDUCATION

New Challenge for Poor Schools
As the law known as No Child Left Behind takes effect across the country, remote, impoverished schools will be called upon to transform themselves into schools that can deliver consistent progress for every type of student. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Seeking Muscles, Using Drugs
People seeking large, chiseled bodies in the gym are learning the bitter secret of that look: it almost always takes drugs that are often illegal but readily available. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Other Convictions Eyed In Park Jogger Case
Prosecutors reconsidering whether Harlem teenagers beat and raped a female jogger during a Central Park rampage 13 years ago are also debating whether the teenagers' convictions for other crimes committed that night should be thrown out. B1

Six Weekend Killings in City
A young man was shot and killed in the Bronx after refusing to surrender his expensive leather jacket, the police said. It was one of six slayings in New York City over an unusually violent weekend. B3

Two Store Clerks Slain
Two clerks at a video-game store in a strip mall in Roxbury Township, N.J., were shot to death shortly after they unlocked the store's front door. The store appeared orderly, and it was unclear whether robbery was a motive in the killings. B5

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-12

Titans Beat the Giants
Tennessee beat New York, 32-29, in overtime, all but crushing the Giants' playoff hopes. D1

ARTS E1-8

Honored for Achievement
May O'Donnell, 96, left, a 1920's dancer and later a quietly iconoclastic choreographer, is to share the 2002 Martha Hill Prize for lifetime achievement today with Doris Hering, 82, left, who began writing about dance in the mid 1940's. The award is named after an influential educator and promoter of modern dance who died in 1995. E3

OBITUARIES B8

Capt. Edward L. Beach
The skipper of the nuclear-powered submarine Triton when it made history's first round-the-world undersea voyage in 1960, he was 84. B8

Charles Dupuis
A pioneering Belgian publisher best known in the United States for introducing the blue-hued animated characters called Smurfs, he was 84. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

UAL Talks With Holdout Union
United Airlines executives met with leaders of the machinists union, seeking ways to persuade mechanics to reverse their rejection of $700 million in concessions. The airline is trying to bolster its case for federal loan guarantees and avoid filing for bankruptcy protection. A14

Media Ownership Is Evaluated
The impact of the Internet and the expansion of cable and satellite Television will be discussed next month, as the Federal Communications Commission considers loosening ownership restrictions in what could be the largest overhaul of media regulations in a generation. C1

Inaccurate Stock Quotes
A handful of hugely inaccurate stock quotes appeared on the Web sites of a small number of news and financial services companies on Friday evening, an error an official at the New York Stock Exchange said was the fault of a company that redistributes its data, which had accidentally sent out test numbers. C2

Deal for Vitamin Shoppe
Vitamin Shoppe Industries, the vitamin and supplements retailer, has been sold to the private equity group at Bear, Stearns & Company for about $310 million, according to executives close to the deal. C2

Black Market for Software
A black market has emerged for scientific and engineering software that can be used in a wide range of tasks like designing rockets or nuclear reactors or predicting the path of a cloud of anthrax spores. C1

Lizzie Appeals to 'Tweens'
The "Lizzie McQuire" series, introduced in January 2001, has generated one of the biggest new Walt Disney Company brands in years -- one that has spawned successful lines of Lizzie clothing and merchandise. C1

Russian Energy Projects
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia will seek to advance energy projects during a visit to China this week, officials in Moscow said. C7

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Bambi's mother in the cross hairs; nuclear duplicity from Pakistan; building a better Buildings Department; a murderous trend defied.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E4
Weather B7
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); STARVATION (68%); HELICOPTERS (64%); AIRLINES (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); JOHN HOWARD (54%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



76 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Texas Pact With Insurer Falls Short, Advocacy Group Says 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
The announcement this weekend that state officials had struck a deal with Farmers Insurance Group came as a holiday reprieve for the company's 700,000 home insurance customers in Texas, who faced cancellation of their policies if Farmers had carried through on its threat to abandon the state.
 But even as state officials welcomed the $100 million settlement, it appeared to offer only marginal relief from the skyrocketing rates that have left Texans paying the highest home insurance premiums in the nation. Consumer advocates said the deal, announced in Austin on Saturday, favored Farmers and did little to address the problems at the root of the state's home insurance crisis. 
 "The governor and the insurance commissioner have attacked this all wrong," said D. J. Powers, president of the Center for Economic Justice, a consumer advocacy group in Austin. "Going after one company was a political game. What they should have done was look at the whole picture and the entire industry." 
Home insurance was a central issue in the recent governor's race. In the campaign, Gov. Rick Perry, Attorney General John Cornyn and insurance regulators initiated action against Farmers, contending that it gouged customers. The state sought $150 million for consumers and threatened to assess billions of dollars in fines. In response, Farmers, the second-largest provider of home insurance in Texas, threatened to stop renewing policies this month. 
Under Saturday's agreement, Farmers customers will get $65 million in refunds, though consumer advocates said those credits against monthly bills would not come until well into next year. The company also agreed to a 6.8 percent rate reduction valued at $35 million, bringing the settlement to $100 million. Farmers will pay no fines and will not admit to any wrongdoing.
In the campaign, Mr. Perry, a Republican, was accused by Farmers and other critics of singling out the company to deflect attention from the estimated $1 million in contributions he had accepted from the insurance industry. Mr. Perry was re-elected in a landslide. This weekend, Mr. Perry said he was pleased with the settlement.
"My goal has always been to find a resolution that not only protects Texas consumers, but also allows Farmers to continue doing business in this state," Mr. Perry said.
Pointing to the session of the legislature that begins in January, Mr. Perry said, "With this behind us, state leaders can now focus on our next step, which is to pass substantive homeowners insurance reform that will lower rates for all Texans."
The home insurance issue is expected to be an early test for the state's Republican leadership, which after November's elections has control of the State House, the State Senate and the governor's office. Insurance analysts say the Texas home insurance market is one of the most dysfunctional in the nation, with a regulatory structure that has left consumers paying the highest rates and left insurers complaining of billions of dollars in losses. 
Insurers complain, for example, that Texas regulations have required them to cover billions of dollars in claims for mold damage, a situation they say has been exploited by trial lawyers and insurance adjusters. Consumer advocates say insurers have exploited a loophole in the regulatory structure that has allowed them to avoid any oversight in setting home insurance premiums.
In November, two Republican legislators unveiled an insurance overhaul package designed to address many of these concerns. At the same time, insurance companies formed Texas Coalition for Affordable Insurance Solutions to push their agenda. Mr. Perry has promised to designate home insurance as an "emergency" issue, meaning it can be put on a fast track for action.
Mr. Powers, the consumer advocate, is skeptical that change will emerge from the forthcoming session, noting that insurance companies are big heavy contributors to many Republican lawmakers. Nor, he said, was the Farmers deal, with its promise of a 6.8 percent rate reduction, a real victory. He said state insurance documents suggested that Farmers had raised premiums by as much as 190 percent since 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LEGISLATION (69%) INSURANCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: FARMERS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FARMERS INSURANCE GROUP 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); JOHN CORNYN (57%) YARDLEY, JIM; PERRY, RICK (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002 



77 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: A CONVERSATION WITH/David Ropeik; 
The Fear Factor Meets Its Match

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA DREIFUS 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
In this world of new occupations, David Ropeik, a former television reporter, is the director of risk communication at the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis. As a professional "risk communicator" for a research group, Mr. Ropeik writes essays, books and opinion articles about reasons for people's fears, using the tools of statistics, psychology and evolutionary biology.
 With terrorist alerts, threats of war with Iraq and outbreaks of West Nile fever, Americans seem eager to hear someone who can explain why they are afraid and, perhaps more important, whether their fears have reasonable grounds. 
 Mr. Ropeik (pronounced roh-PEEK) writes essays on risk and reads them on "Morning Edition," on National Public Radio. A book by Mr. Ropeik and George Gray, "Risk: A Practical Guide for Deciding What's Really Safe and What's Really Dangerous in the World Around You," was recently published. 
Mr. Ropeik, 51, and his organization are also drawing attention because of their critics, who contend that the center, which is mostly financed by industry, is too closely tied to its sponsors, issuing studies about the products they make.
The criticism even emerged during a Congressional hearing over the confirmation of Dr. John D. Graham, the center's founder, who won approval to head a regulatory department in the White House Office of Management and Budget.
David Ropeik spoke about his roles and the controversies in interviews here and later by telephone.

Q. Let's begin with basics. Define risk analysis.

A. We want to know how big or small a risk is, how expensive various solutions will be, to know if we do something about this risk in this way, what will that do to other risks? Will it make them go up or down?
Risk analysis is meant is to be thoughtful, rational, informed about complicated, often emotional issues, so that decisions we make are good, smart and informed.
I think there are many examples of where people are more or less fearful than the facts suggest they ought to be. When people are over- or under-afraid, based on what the statistics suggest they ought to be of any given risk, they make bad choices.

Q. Give us some examples of what you consider bad choices.

A. Let's talk specifically about terrorism. When people are afraid of flying, they drive. I know of the mother of a United Airlines flight attendant who, in the wake of 9/11, was afraid of flying. So a few weeks after 9/11, she drove to a family function several states away. She was killed in a car crash. She was too afraid of a low risk -- flying -- and her risk perception led her to a choice that was dangerous.
Another example? People, when they read about high-risk situations, sometimes want to protect themselves by buying guns. I don't say that's good or bad; that's their choice. But it's been demonstrated that more guns bought for self-defense will go off in a crime, suicide or accident than for self-defense.

Q. Don't people sometimes have very good reasons for making risky choices?

A. It's entirely rational for us to want to protect ourselves and to try to survive. If you are walking through the woods and you see something on the ground, something that could be either a snake or a stick, you're not going to do a risk analysis of what is there. You're going to jump out of the way.
We're biologically programmed to do this, to protect ourselves. And when you don't have all the facts you will over- or underreact to a risk, based on your instincts.
At the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, we analyze how big or small a risk might be, how one risk compares to another, and the effectiveness and costs of various risk management strategies, to identify how to maximize risk reduction with the most efficient use of limited resources.

Q. Do you think that one of the legacies of 9/11 is that we've become an overly fearful society?

A. All the scientific literature about risk says that we humans react to a new risk with more fear than after we've lived with it for a while. This was new. There are, however, many things the government could be doing better.
To stem emotional reactions, it's important that the government be open and communicating with the public. During holidays lately, we get all these condition orange, condition yellow alerts. What do they mean? They should tell us what we should be doing in response. Should we be looking for packages on the street? Should we be on alert for people scaling fences at reservoirs or chemical plants?

Q. American airports are now centers of elaborate security rituals. Do you think the aviation industry is trying to reshape our perception of flying risks, or are we really safer?

A. I would say both. You could say all the visible security is an overreaction because it's a lot of money being poured into what many people seem to think is some risk reduction, but probably is minimal.
As The Economist recently put it, it's a bunch of guys in uniforms looking butch, pretending to scare terrorists. It seems that the flaws are still there and if somebody really wanted to sneak through, he could, like Richard Reid with his bomb-laden sneakers.
But then, if you are afraid of flying, you'll drive, and driving is by far, statistically, a much greater risk -- 41,000 Americans will be killed in motor vehicle crashes in the calendar year coming up, roughly.
If we're less afraid of flying because of the show of confidence that those butch guys in uniforms at the airports are offering, we can make more informed, reasonable decisions that ultimately may reduce our physical risk.

Q. What is your take on how the government has communicated the potential risks of radioactive "dirty bombs"?

A. I think the government fanned our fears with how it described the risk of dirty bombs, rather than helping put the risk in perspective.
The truth is, if a dirty bomb does go off at some point, the terror will be higher than the actual physical damage, and the government should put that into perspective. There is, after all, a real physical danger from the terror, as well as from the device itself.
Government officials called it a "weapon of mass destruction," which according to all the scientists quoted at the time, it is not. It is very bad for the neighborhood where it goes off, which is where most of the radiation stays. It carries little greater physical risks than any conventional explosive.

Q. On the biological front, we have the West Nile virus. With birds dropping from the trees and people dying, should we worry?

A. The spread of West Nile virus perfectly illustrates how risk perception can lead to more fear than the actual risk seems to warrant. Compare the fear in areas where the virus is just showing up -- pretty high -- with fear of the same virus where it has existed for a few years. The risk of getting it is the same everywhere, but it's more frightening to people for whom it's new.

Q. The founder of your center, Dr. Graham, is now the administrator of the O.M.B.'s Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. During his confirmation hearings, Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, said he was unfit for the job because of "his history of conducting research that places anti-regulatory policy objectives before academic accuracy and integrity." How do your respond to this and other similar accusations?

A. It was very painful for the faculty at the center, and I speak now on their behalf, to go through this because it questions the credibility of the entire center's science.

Q. She wasn't the only one to level that sort of accusation. Robert Kuttner, in The American Prospect, a liberal publication, wrote that Dr. Graham "has taken loads of self-serving industry money to underwrite his Harvard Center." He suggests that the issues the center takes on are very much determined by your financial backers. How did you react to his critique?

A. I felt that this fellow had a view on things that came through. He's a columnist. He's an analyst. However, I think the point he raises is right on. Is that kind of rational cost-benefit thinking going to attract Greenpeace, or the Sierra Club, or National Audubon, or whatever? Less likely than it's going to attract corporations who find comfort in that careful, non-emotional, non-value-based, but "just the facts, please," sort of approach.

Q. What do you personally fear?

A. I'm afraid of being an overweight 51-year-old white guy and not eating well and not getting enough exercise. I'm afraid of not making the right lifestyle choices. But, you know, ice cream still tastes good.
I'm afraid of my 17-year-old son starting to drive. He's in a pretty high-risk group there. And he's my son.
Most of us are much more afraid of risks to our children than we are to ourselves. That's why asbestos at our kid's school is much more frightening than it is at the workplace.

Q One senses that you live by the F.D.R. adage "We having nothing to fear but fear itself."

A. Yes. We have to recognize that there are very real risks out there, but one of them is fear.

GRAPHIC: Photo: How safe are you from terrorists, natural disasters and auto crashes? David Ropeik is the designated answer man. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); BIOLOGY (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); WEST NILE VIRUS (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (69%); APPROVALS (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (57%); AIRLINES (50%) FEAR; DISASTERS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (56%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: ROPEIK, DAVID; DREIFUS, CLAUDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



78 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Lifts Its Freeze on Most BankAccounts 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Argentina took a long-sought step back toward financial normalcy today as the government lifted a much-reviled freeze on most bank accounts. Depositors got unrestricted access to their savings and checking accounts for the first time in a year.
 The freeze was originally imposed to halt a huge drain on the country's bank and currency reserves, and was described at the time as a temporary measure. But within three weeks, street demonstrations and food riots had driven Fernando de la Rua out of the presidency and ushered in a period of political chaos and economic collapse. The country is still trying to recover. 
 Today's decision unlocks about 21 billion pesos in deposits. That sum was worth $21 billion when the freeze went into effect, and the peso was pegged at one American dollar. But since the peg was abandoned early this year and the peso was allowed to float, it has lost more than 70 percent of its value against the dollar. So the unlocked deposits are now worth less than $6 billion.
Long lines formed outside many banks as depositors rushed to make withdrawals. "It's about time we finally got our money back," said Matilde Rocca Pereyra, a retiree, as she waited outside a downtown bank this morning to empty her accounts. "I fear our government and the banks still have dirty tricks up their sleeves, so I'm not going to leave my money in their hands."
With Christmas coming, President Eduardo Duhalde and his economic advisers hope that unlocking the bank deposits will lead to a burst of spending that will enliven the Argentine economy, second largest in South America after Brazil. The economy is mired in the worst slump in the country's history, contracting by 11 percent this year, though some signs of recovery have been visible in recent weeks.
But analysts worry that people will spend their unlocked money not on goods or services but to buy dollars, seen here as the only stable haven in the economy. That could further erode the value of the peso, spur inflation and deplete the country's foreign currency reserves, which have fallen to $10 billion from more than $13 billion in January.
The government has been trying to calm such fears. "There has been a lot of pointless agitation, and that has generated anxiety and hysterical attitudes," the economy minister, Roberto Lavagna, complained on Sunday. "I don't see the risk."
Also stirring concern is widespread speculation that the Supreme Court will rule this month that a government decree that forcibly converted bank term deposits from dollars to pesos is unconstitutional. Term accounts were not unlocked today; they hold some $9 billion in additional savings at the old exchange rate.
The peso had been holding steady against the dollar since midyear at about 27.8 cents, or about 3.6 to the dollar. After rising a bit in early November, the peso slipped last week on nervousness about the pending court ruling and new pressures on the exchange rate. It recovered some of the lost ground today to close at 3.57 to the dollar.
"We have many tools to control the exchange rate, and the possibilities of fighting the central bank are virtually nil," the president of the bank, Aldo Pignatelli, said in an interview published Sunday in the daily Clarin. "We have been building up our reserves over the past few months to be able to face up to just this kind of situation."
The unfreezing of bank accounts is the latest in a series of steps the Argentine government has taken in hopes of obtaining new loans from the International Monetary Fund. Negotiations began shortly after Mr. Duhalde took office in January, but they have stalled repeatedly over issues ranging from bankruptcy laws to utility rates, which were frozen in January in hopes of containing inflation and avoiding more street disturbances. 
On Saturday, Mr. Duhalde said that electric and natural gas utilities would be allowed to raise their rates by up to 10 percent beginning today. "We haven't ordered a big hike," he said during his weekly radio appearance, "just the amount indispensable to guarantee the maintenance of service." 
The freeze on utility rates has been a sore point with the monetary fund and has been bitterly criticized by the utilities, who say they need increases of as much as 30 percent to keep up with costs. With summer approaching in the Southern Hemisphere, there are growing worries that the straits of the utilities and their lack of new investment will lead to power blackouts.
In another step to appease critics, Congress approved a bill late last week that fixes the date of a presidential election in late April 2003, with a runoff in mid-May if it is needed. Mr. Duhalde's term was to run through most of 2003, but he decided to leave office six months early, a move that has weakened his authority, provoked infighting within the ruling Peronist party and led to complaints from the monetary fund about a lack of political stability here.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A long line of people waited outside the Banco Ciudad in Buenos Aires yesterday to withdraw their money. (Associated Press) Graph: "Far From Parity"Since the Argentine peso began trading freely. It has lost most of its value. Graph tracks the value of the peso since December 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (76%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); RIOTS (71%); TRENDS (70%); CHRISTMAS (64%); HISTORY (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ASSETS, FROZEN; CURRENCY; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



79 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Mexican TV Producer Is Set To Sign Up New York Affiliate 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
In an effort to expand its reach in the highly coveted Hispanic consumer market in the United States, TV Azteca, a Mexican production company and broadcaster, is expected to announce formally on Tuesday the addition of a New York affiliate for its Azteca America network.
 Joined with 17 other stations across the country, the new affiliate, WXNY (Channel 39), will expand Azteca America's reach to some 53 percent of Latino households in the United States, the company said -- enough to attract lucrative national advertising accounts as well as local and specialty advertisers. 
 TV Azteca is the world's second-largest producer of Spanish-language television programming. It is far outranked in size and profits by Televisa, the powerhouse of Spanish-language broadcasting, and its American network ranks third in the United States behind Univision and Telemundo. 
In recent months, analysts' forecasts about TV Azteca published by major investment houses have been clouded by uncertainties over a $150 million debt by the broadcaster's holding company that is due in July. And some analysts predicted that it would be hard for Azteca to get much traction in the American market in the shadow of Univision.
"This will have a snowball effect," said Matthew Coppet, the Latin American media analyst for UBS Warburg. "A lot of stations have been watching Azteca to see whether they would be able to break into large markets. This will help them attract more stations."
Luis J. Echarte, chief executive of Azteca America, pointed out that the network has expanded its reach from Los Angeles to Austin, Palm Springs and Miami through affiliation agreements that involve no capital investment by it. The network shares advertising time or revenue with affiliates who show its news broadcasts, soap operas, Mexican soccer matches and other programming.
Mr. Echarte said that his company saw tremendous potential in figures showing that the Hispanic segment is the fastest-growing part of the United States population. While Hispanics account for nearly 8 percent of all consumer spending in the United States, he said, less than 3 percent of TV advertising spending is now aimed at Hispanic viewers, a figure he says is sure to grow to match the audience's spending power.
Azteca's chairman, Ricardo Salinas Pliego, tried to buy Telemundo in 1997 but was outbid by Sony Entertainment. The company started Azteca America in 2000 as a partnership with Pappas Telecasting, but the partnership has been roiled for months by legal disputes over whether Pappas has fulfilled its capital commitments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); RANKINGS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (62%); SOCCER (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEVISION; SPANISH LANGUAGE; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: TV AZTECA SA DE CV (92%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: TV AZTECA SA DE CV; WXNY (NYC) 

TICKER: AZTECA (BMV) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) MEXICO; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



80 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: South Korea's Bane, in One Word: Plastic 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Traffic crawling down expressways, shoppers thronging glittery new malls, and apartment prices taking the elevator are all signs that South Korea's economy is expanding this year at 6 percent, a growth rate second only to China among Asia's biggest economies.
 Breaking with the Japanese model of sacrificing consumers on the altar of trade surpluses, South Korea has made consumer spending a major engine for economic growth. 
 But now some economists wish that Koreans would stop saying "charge it" quite so often.
In the five years since the 1997 corporate debt crisis, household debt in South Korea has nearly doubled, hitting $326 billion this year. That figure is equivalent to 73 percent of gross domestic product -- up from about 50 percent three years ago and nearing the 79 percent level seen in credit-saturated America. 
In this nation of new borrowers, about one worker in 10 is now behind on credit card payments.
"It is true the household loans have jump-started the economy," said Jeon Yun Churl, South Korea's finance minister, in an interview in Seoul. "But the government is coming up with various measure to reduce loans to households."
Without raising interest rates, South Korean officials hope gradually to let the air out of what many analysts say is a bubble built on consumer borrowing and spending. Planners want to avoid a hard landing that could destabilize the economy, Asia's third largest, with its increasingly middle-class population of 47 million. 
In a series of steps announced in November, banks and credit companies have been instructed to set aside more reserves against the risk that customers will not pay and to cut back on the amount of cash they will advance to cardholders. The Financial Supervisory Service, the government's banking watchdog, said that all consumer lenders will be inspected and those that lend recklessly will be shut down.
Already the credit-tightening measures have started to cool the overheated housing market in greater Seoul, home to almost half of the nation's population.
But in a country imbued with Confucian notions of saving and frugality, the credit card binge has been revolutionary. The national savings rate has dwindled to 27.5 percent this year, from 33.4 percent in 1997, and the average adult South Korean now carries three credit cards.
The mania has even trickled across the demilitarized zone into North Korea, where the authorities announced in November plans to start a service offering credit cards.
The government decided in the 1990's to actively encourage credit card use and make it nearly universal here, as a way of increasing demand in the economy and as a weapon against tax evasion. 
Card issuers were so eager to sign up new customers that they set up folding tables at busy intersections, handing out cards to passers-by who gave nothing more than a home address -- no one asked nosy questions about assets or income.
Today, credit card horror stories are staples of office water cooler gossip.
"The average bank worker has 10 to 15 cards," said Song Seung Ha, a 24-year-old bank employee. After getting over her head in credit card debt, she said she started cutting in half each new card that arrived in the mail.
At a magazine, Kim Woo Shik, a 28-year-old reporter, recalled a co-worker who maintained a high-spending, heavy-drinking life for more than a year by "bicycling" his cards -- using cash advances from one to pay off another. Each new card that arrived went into a special desk drawer.
"Whenever he had a financial problem, he would search through his drawer to find a new card for a new cash service," Mr. Kim recalled. "I remember him many times saying in the office, 'Wow! I found one more!' "
With 2.5 million South Koreans now in arrears on their credit card bills, credit card companies joined together last month to set up a call-in center with credit counselors, called the Personal Debt Recovery Service.
Investors appear to have already concluded that the bloom is off the credit card rose here. Shares in LG Card, the country's largest issuer, have fallen by about one-third since June. 
Some economists wonder whether South Korean consumers' mass crash course in plastic could shake the banking system here the way an earlier class of unwise binge borrowers, the nation's big corporate groups, did five years ago, touching off a financial crisis.
"It is amazing that Korea's commercial banks are still merrily doling out loans without worrying about their payback schedule," Andy Xie, Asia economist for Morgan Stanley, wrote in October. "Korea's successes in financial-sector reforms could be destroyed by what is happening now."
As a star pupil of the International Monetary Fund, South Korea has reduced the proportion of nonperforming bank loans to 2.4 percent today from 13 percent in 1998. 
Now, in a rarity for Asia, households in South Korea account for 40 percent of bank lending, and the sector is important to bank profits. Kookmin Bank, the nation's biggest lender, recorded a sharp fall in profit in the third quarter because of rising consumer defaults. Korea Exchange Bank Credit Service, the nation's No. 3 credit card issuer, originally expected to record $205 million in profits this year, but loan losses have pushed it into the red.
But, while credit card delinquencies have grown rapidly, optimists say that their overall volume does not seem threatening.
At the end of September, unpaid credit card loans totaled $194 million, according to the Financial Supervisory Service. That is a small fraction of the $6 billion in profits the banking industry is expected to report this year. 
"While the pace of household credit growth has been high, this should be viewed as an adjustment triggered by deregulation that cleared the way for increased lending to a traditionally under-leveraged sector," J. P. Morgan Chase said in a report released in late November. "Fundamentally, the private sector's net wealth, combined with steadily rising incomes, supports the current degree of household leverage."
With South Korea's economy expected to expand by another 6 percent in the coming year, many analysts say that the country can easily withstand its credit card growing pains. 
"The dramatic gains in credit card use and the marketing exuberance of banks are bound to cause the same problems that are commonplace in any society," David Roddy, an economist who edits the Korean Stock Market Newsletter, wrote recently. "But the Korean government has already taken the appropriate steps to make sure that the personal bankruptcy laws do not allow extravagant and irrational use of credit cards."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Household debt in South Korea is equivalent to 73 percent of gross domestic product; for Americans, the figure is around 79 percent. (Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); TAX FRAUD (67%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (56%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



81 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
Airport Problems Seem to Be on the Wane
The so-called airport hassle factor, which airlines claim significantly cut into their revenues this year as some business travelers took fewer flights to avoid it, appears to be waning.
 The latest indication of the improving experience comes from Airport Interviewing and Research, a company that does passenger polls and focus group interviews for airports. In face-to-face interviews with 3,500 travelers in mid-November, the company says it found significant improvements in satisfaction scores for check-in time, courtesy and professionalism at security checkpoints, which are all now staffed by federal employees. 

Different Views Of Green in Europe
Which way does air travel in Europe go? The airline industry there is being careful to factor environmental concerns into policy positions. Last week, for example, the International Air Transport Association said it backed building new runways at Heathrow, Stansted and Gatwick airports in London because "provision of adequate air space and airport capacity is a prerequisite for achieving significant reductions in congestion, delays and greenhouse gas emissions."
That's not the way the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution sees things. In a report (available at www.rcep.org.uk/avreport.html) last week, the British board called for "significant constraints on the growth of air traffic" throughout Britain and the European Union as a way to counter aircraft emissions as a factor in global warming.
The board said it would recommend a "climate protection" surcharge of $54.50 on all airline tickets. Meanwhile, as fractional-ownership jet companies work to expand their business in Europe, the board also denounced the "development and promotion of business jets" as "grossly irresponsible."

Travel Specials Coming This Spring
Starting April 1, Northwest Airlines WorldPerks members will be able to redeem miles to fly domestically to nearly any destination within Japan on Japan Airlines. It will take 15,000 miles for a round-class economy ticket. 
A swanky Le Meridien hotel opens in March in Minneapolis with a six-month introductory rate of $209 for rooms, with amenities that include 42-inch plasma TV screens and entertainment systems with thousands of on-demand video and music selections. After the six-month shakedown cruise, the standard room rate goes to $349. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CIVIL AVIATION (79%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (79%); TRAVEL TICKETS (79%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (79%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (79%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (74%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (60%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (53%); MERIDIEN HOTEL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MINNESOTA, USA (71%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



82 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Travel Agencies WooSmall-Business Clients

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Ally Haynes, who manages travel for a New York company called Entertainment Events, recently cut her spending more than 20 percent by a simple means: switching travel agencies.
 Entertainment Events, which books national tours of shows like "Late Nite Catechism," became a customer of Expedia's new corporate travel program in August , and now saves anywhere from $1,000 to $2,000 a month on a budget that averages less than $5,000 a month, Miss Haynes says. She says Expedia's transaction fees are cheaper and its fares are lower than she used to pay. 
 "Every penny counts," she said. "In a year we could save $24,000, which could translate into a part-time employee." 
If the online travel agencies Expedia and Orbitz, and traditional offline mega-agencies like American Express, Navigant International and Rosenbluth International have their way, the Ally Hayneses of corporate America will soon start flocking their way. In recent months, all of these companies have created managed-travel programs tailored to small and medium-size businesses with travel budgets that generally do not exceed several million dollars annually.
This is virgin territory for many travel agencies, online or off. In the past, small businesses usually booked travel through a local or regional agency or on their own, or else they joined programs created in the late 1990's by major airlines that provided flight upgrades, airport lounge passes, free tickets and the like in exchange for a guaranteed amount of annual bookings.
With business travel down since early 2001 and the economy continuing to wobble, however, the big players have been looking for untapped markets, and they say they believe they have found one in small businesses.
Though individually small companies might not count for much, collectively they are huge. Thom Nulty, president of Navigant, estimates that they account for 25 percent of spending on business travel in the United States. That would amount to somewhere in the neighborhood of $45 billion, based on the National Business Travel Association's calculation that total corporate spending approached $185 billion in 2000.
And increasingly, bookings are being made on the Internet. PhoCusWright, a consulting company in Sherman, Conn., says that businesses of all sizes using online agencies like Orbitz or airline Web sites will book $7.1 billion of travel this year; it projects that such bookings will almost triple, to $18.9 billion, in 2005. 
"I think this is a great opportunity for all players," said Bill Niejadlik, an executive with WorldTravel BTI, a big agency with its own small-business program, TravelAgent .com. "This is the last, truly unserved market for travel in the United States."
Another important factor in the emergence of these new travel management programs has been the introduction of corporate travel programs by Expedia and Orbitz; both of them previously focused on the leisure travel market. By developing their own small-business initiatives, the big agencies "are trying to retain smaller clients they might lose to the competition," said Susan Steinbrink, a travel technology consultant in Ambler, Pa.
After a test that began in the summer, Expedia started a corporate travel program in November with discounted air fares and hotel rates, travel management reports and transaction fees ranging from $5 to $25. As of Jan. 1, it will also charge a $149 initiation fee.
Orbitz's program, introduced in September, includes its extensive fare listings, which feature airlines' discounted Web fares, plus travel management services and its customer service program; its transaction fees range from $5 to $20. Both agencies provide online and offline customer service, with higher charges for the latter.
Most of the big agencies -- including American Express, Rosenbluth, WorldTravel BTI and Carlson Wagonlit Travel -- have introduced their own small-business programs since the first of the year; Navigant started its program two years ago and American Express had other, earlier programs.
These initiatives include online and offline booking options; special discounts on airline, hotel and car rental rates, which are important to small businesses that cannot negotiate such discounts on their own because their volume is not great enough; and additional travel management and advisory services. Transaction fees generally range from $10 to $40. American Express's online RezPort program charges each company a flat fee of $100 annually but no transaction fees, while Carlson Wagonlit, which offers its program in conjunction with IBM Leveraged Procurement Services, imposes a one-time fee ranging from $500 to $1,000 on companies that want travel management reports.
Industry experts say small businesses trying to determine which plan to sign up for should examine their air travel patterns. If they are based in a city that serves as a hub for a major airline, like Houston for Continental, for example, an airline-specific small-business program might be a good option.
If flying low-fare carriers like Southwest or JetBlue is important, it might be smart to stick to offline agencies or deal directly with the airline. Expedia does not work with JetBlue; it does not display Southwest's fares online but sells its tickets offline. Orbitz does not work with Southwest at all; it displays JetBlue's fares but does not sell its tickets.
It is not as though traditional agencies have become obsolete, of course. Bob Lichtman, a corporate travel consultant in Menlo Park, Calif., recommends that businesses with employees who have large, complicated itineraries use these agencies, rather than Expedia or Orbitz (though Expedia and Orbitz say their offline customer service departments can handle complicated itineraries). 
Henry H. Harteveldt, senior analyst at Forrester Research, said traditional agencies offered the advantage of the "tools they've developed for larger companies, for reports, technology, negotiated rates," adding: "They tend to have lots of call centers. There's very little they can't do."
Each option has its fans. Mike Berent, chief operating officer of Centerprise Advisors Inc., a financial services company in Chicago that spends around $2 million a year on travel, is a fan of online agencies. He made the switch from a big agency to Orbitz a year ago after Centerprise employees found rates on the Web that, 9 times out of 10, were better than those quoted by the big agency.
"I haven't seen how a traditional agency can figure out how to manage a travel budget, be on top of things and get the lowest price at the last possible minute," he said, adding that by using Orbitz, Centerprise has cut its travel budget by 20 percent to 40 percent.
Despite such conversions, Mr. Lichtman say traditional agencies will do better than Orbitz and Expedia because "as long as travelers are confused by an overwhelming number of choices, they will require customer support."
Karen Nedd, executive administrative assistant of Sea Star Line, an ocean freight shipping company in Jacksonville, Fla., is more of a traditionalist. She uses American Express's RezPort Web site to book travel, and says it has helped her company trim its annual travel budget of $375,000 by $11,000.
"If I think their fares come in really high, I check with other sites, but generally they're competitive," Ms. Nedd said. "And the layout of the Web site is very user-friendly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ally Haynes cut Entertainment Events' travel spending more than 20 percent by switching agencies. "Every penny counts," she said. "In a year we could save $24,000, which could translate into a part-time employee." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (95%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); AIRPORTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (76%); BCD TRAVEL (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (76%); OWW (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (76%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (76%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



83 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Premium Pricing? For What?

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
FORGET the opposition. What I want to know, and all Mets fans should really care to know, is which level plan the team is projecting itself in for 2003.
 Will the Mets be gold, silver, bronze or value? Based on the hype and the horror that was their 2002 season, may I suggest another tier, fool's gold, or that disreputable category for a team deserving no medals for trying and whose values failed to meet acceptable standards for the family oriented. 
 This last-place team with a lousy attitude, a mediocre pitching staff and a rather massive problem at first base proudly announced last week that it was fixing prices for 27 games in 2003 and granting fans the privilege of paying less for 16, as a means of offsetting price hikes for the remainder of the so-called premium games that would increase the average ticket by 4 percent. 
Where are Bud Selig, Bob Costas and the rest of the baseball purists when you need them? Variable pricing is one thing and not necessarily a bad thing. When the Cubs lower prices for games played in frigid Chicago spring weather and raise them for Wrigley summer splendor, there is nothing wrong with that. When the Braves designate weekend games during the summer months as their premium dates, that is no radical policy.
Doing it the Mets' way, pinning painful price hikes on the projected quality of their opponents and spinning it as a demonstration of their holiday spirit strikes me as duplicitous, and antithetical to core baseball principles, the soap opera obsession with the home team that sustains fan interest over a six-month, game-a-day season in the first place.
In other words, as long as the Mets are golden (in first place), silver (a few games back) or even bronze (hanging on to a wild-card dream), the true value of their ticket is related more to the relevance of the game and their standing than the arbitrary marquee appeal of the opponent.
What, for example, makes for a more premium and memorable event: the Yankees blowing out the Red Sox, or David Cone throwing a perfect game against the Montreal Expos? Even in this era of extreme payroll imbalance, the beauty of baseball is its day-to-day unpredictability, directly related to the ability of the starting pitcher. To project dollar value variability on certain games, season to season, strikes me as a cynical exercise in guesswork and an obvious incentive for gouging, management assuming the role of the scalper.
"We are all looking for ways to increase revenues in this economy," Stan Kasten, the Braves' president, said yesterday. "But down here, we'll tend to draw more for a weekend series against the Pirates than we will for a weekday series against the Mets. So our variable pricing has nothing to do with the opponent."
Too bad, I thought, contemplating the scoop of the Mets landing in the Braves' value plan. In Atlanta, Kasten explained, fans may purchase one ticket at selected prices and receive another free for all Tuesday and Wednesday games. There are a variety of family packages and outfield seats purchased in a full-season package that cost about half of what they do for a single game. 
Conversely, the Braves have designated all Friday and Saturday games from May through August as premium dates and raised most seats by $3 for an overall price hike of 2.5 percent, not factoring in all discounts that could, Kasten added, lower the cost of the average ticket while increasing revenues.
Isn't that a novel idea? Naturally, the argument can be made that Atlanta has never been a great sports city, and Braves playoff games have often failed to sell out. But at least the Braves' spin comes with the likelihood -- if not the guarantee -- that their games will be meaningful past the Fourth of July.
Instead of owning up to 2002, here are the Mets acting like George Steinbrenner, marking up average prices at a bruising time for working families, and posing as philanthropists for discounting 16 games.
"I'll be watching to see how the Mets' plan works," Kasten said.
Another season or two like 2002 and the Mets will be watching Kasten's team, too, only it won't be the Braves. Also the president of the N.B.A. Hawks, Kasten finds himself in the position of having to refund 4,000 season-ticket holders $125 each, or $500,000, if the team does not make the playoffs this season.
"Not a big number, but a big statement," he said of the playoff guarantee, the sign of the times when the hometown fans designate their downtrodden team as value, or nothing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Premium games will cost Mets fans more. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (55%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (55%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



84 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Staying Warm and Fuzzy During Uncertain Times 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

 BODY:
Last Friday afternoon, the day ritualized consumerism is traditionally at its most frenetic, Alexx Balcuns twirled in front of a full-length mirror at the Ritz Thrift Shop on West 57th Street as if inhabited by the soul of Eva Gabor in "Green Acres." Ms. Balcuns was languishing in a $795 dyed-mink parka her grandmother had just bought her, a garment that became part of a collection that included a full-length purple shearling and a white mink car coat she received three years ago. Ms. Balcuns is 6.
 Clearly, kindergarten coat racks are not lined with sable, but Ms. Balcun's winter wardrobe indicates the extent to which fur has broadened its reach and become accessible to a wider cross section of Americans. 
 After the dark years of the early 1990's, fur sales started edging upward in the middle of the decade, thanks to design innovations that helped separate fur from the habits and proclivities of those populating Danielle Steele novels. Sheared, made lighter weight or cut and trimmed to resemble corduroy, fur regained its position as an object of fascination among the young, fashionable and tastefully manicured. The year 2000 was the fur industry's best ever, with sales of $1.69 billion. Though sales slipped last year to $1.53 billion, they exceeded what at the time were unprecedented figures in 1998 and 1999, said Keith Kaplan, executive director of the Fur Information Council. 
Few could have predicted such an outcome given the events of Sept. 11, coupled with the economic slump and warm winter. "Fur has broadened its distribution base," Mr. Kaplan said. "We saw a big increase in the areas of men's wear and urban wear."
There is evidence to suggest that this year will be another robust one for the fur industry, regardless of what common sense would have us imagine. Sherry Cassin, a Manhattan furrier, for example, said her business had improved in 2001 from 2000 and that this year her sales are already up 30 percent over last year. Ms. Cassin does a brisk business in $995 ponchos made of rabbit and $1,000 mink-trimmed denim jackets. (The bulk of her sales come from coats in the $2,500 to $5,000 range.) Ms. Cassin's six highest grossing trunk shows ever occurred this year. One took place at a boutique called Barbara Jean in Little Rock, Ark., in August, where she sold more than 20 pieces in two days.
At Neiman Marcus, fur sales are experiencing a double-digit increase this year over last, said the store's fashion director, Joan Kaner. In Dallas, Stanley Korshak, the rarefied boutique, has already sold one of its most expensive coats, a $32,000 vanilla broadtail. Against all conventional wisdom, 2001 ranked as the best year for fur sales in the store's history, Jim Farr, a vice president, said. This year, he added, fur sales are inching up even higher.
"I think there are a number of factors at work here, not the least of which is luck," Mr. Farr said. "But I also think that after the events of last year people have really wanted to do something for themselves."
An afternoon at the Ritz Thrift Shop, the purveyor of new and secondhand furs where Ms. Balcuns was doing her shopping, indicates that fur is considered not just a showy sign of arrival, but in some way perhaps a signifier of survival. On Friday, a middle-aged woman who did not wish to be named bought a used calf-length, sheared-mink Valentino coat partly as a badge of honor. After a year of unemployment, she had just found a high-level job at an advertising agency, which she considered a triumph given her age and current circumstances. "I was going to buy a camel's-hair coat and then I thought to myself, 'Well, this is close to camel hair,' " she said. 
A few feet away stood Kim Herman, a graphic designer, married and in her 30's, who was wearing thigh-high leather boots she got on Eighth Street and who was about to buy a used full-length white mink for $1,500. She bought her first fur, a ranch mink with fox trim, last winter. "There was just such an undercurrent of unhappiness," Ms. Herman explained, "and it just made me happy to go out and buy the coat."
Also shopping at the Ritz were several young single women for whom fur represented a kind of emotional compensation. Aiysha Stokes, 25, from Jamaica, Queens, was picking up from storage a stone martin coat that she bought two years ago. "For a young woman my age to be working and going to school, I thought I deserved a present," said Ms. Stokes, who likes to wear her coat to church functions. "I encourage young girls, if you're working, go out, treat yourself, buy a fur coat."
It is this kind of consumer psychology that the animal-rights movement has yet to do battle with, though fur protests continue. Last month, members of the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals demonstrated during a fashion show alongside Gisele Bundchen, who models for Blackgama furs. On Friday, the Fund for Animals, a Washington group, staged 22 silent demonstrations outside branches of Neiman Marcus nationwide. Michael Markarian, the fund's president, said that the group has been trying to get the retailer to stop selling fur.
"The fur industry has mounted such a successful campaign to bring fur back," he said. "They try to mask it, and dye it orange or blue so that it doesn't look like a dead animal. 
But as James Twitchell, the author of "Living It Up: Our Love Affair With Luxury," pointed out, the forcefulness of the antifur movement in recent years has had the effect of emboldening some men and women to buy fur when perhaps they otherwise might not have. "Now buying fur is an act of self-affirmation," he said. "You're saying, 'I'm not afraid of that.' "
And if you are among the very well-to-do, buying fur is an act of self-affirmation even broader and more powerful in scope. "There are lots of things people are doing in the very upper end of the luxury market to express their success," said Marshal Cohen, co-president of NPD Fashionworld in Port Washington, N.Y., which analyzes retail trends. "There's a small percentage of the luxury market that wants to show the world that the difficult times haven't affected them," he said. "With fur you're saying, 'Everyone else is suffering but I'm not.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gisele Bundchen, a model for Blackglama mink, faces PETA protesters at a Victoria's Secret show. Fur for men: a wrap from the Sean John 2001 winter collection. The painter Ahn Duong in a fur jacket. (Matthew Peyton/Getty Images); (Reuters); (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times); (Corina Lecca for The New York Times); Gwyneth Paltrow wore fur in last year's film "The Royal Tenenbaums." A shopper, Katy Keane, tries on a Tanuki fur, which is a variety of raccoon, at the Ritz Thrift Shop. Young Alexx Balcuns, who already had two fur coats, now has a third: a mink parka bought by her grandmother. A model in an oversize fur wrap in the Fendi 2002 winter collection. (James Hamilton/Touchstone Pictures); (Above and below, Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (78%); FUR APPAREL STORES (77%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%) FUR 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (59%) RITZ THRIFT SHOP (NYC) 

PERSON: GWYNETH PALTROW (59%); GISELE BUNDCHEN (50%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



85 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Trade Center Designs Will Be Shown Dec. 18 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Seven potential new designs for the World Trade Center site will be unveiled in a ceremony on Dec. 18 at the Winter Garden in the World Financial Center, a top rebuilding executive said yesterday, with a final development plan for the site to be selected by the end of February.
 The executive, Louis R. Tomson, president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said the agency would gather public comments on the seven designs to help it choose which features would become part of the final master plan for the site. Comments will be gathered through response cards at the Winter Garden exhibit, at a public meeting and through the development corporation's Web site, where the plans will also be displayed. 
 The February target date is at least a month earlier than the date upon which officials previously said they would settle on a final proposal. But in recent months, city, state and federal officials have focused on the need to start building new transportation terminals in Lower Manhattan, in part to help stimulate the recovery of the financial district. 
"Once those plans are released, we must move forward with the same sense of urgency," Mr. Tomson said. "Until an agreed-upon land use plan is in place," he added, much of the site-related transportation work "cannot proceed in earnest."
Besides public comments, the evaluation of the plans will be based on quantitative factors like cost, potential financing, traffic impact, engineering considerations and the staging of the development, Mr. Tomson said. Also to be considered are qualitative elements like their treatment of the skyline, the setting and approach to a memorial, the public spaces, cultural facilities and the street grid. 
Michael A. Petralia, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site, said the agency agreed with the need "to accelerate our schedule and scope of work" to settle on a final land-use plan. While the Port Authority and the development corporation have feuded over responsibilities and priorities of rebuilding, Mr. Petralia said, "it is time to move forward together on the renaissance of Lower Manhattan."
Mr. Tomson also acknowledged the previous disagreements between the two agencies. "There have been many spirited debates within our staff and board and with the Port Authority on how to achieve the level of excellence we all hope for in recovering from the devastation and charting a new course for downtown," Mr. Tomson said, adding that he believed the results had been helped by the debates. To reach a final result, he said, "the city, the Port Authority and the L.M.D.C. have to all be in agreement."
On Dec. 12, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is scheduled to present his own ideas for the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan beyond the World Trade Center site. "I will be talking about a more broad vision for all of Lower Manhattan and what I see the potentials are down the road," Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference yesterday. 
The plan will also encompass "other parts of Manhattan and the five boroughs and what we really need for economic development and housing going forward," he said.
The development corporation also plans to release a study of transportation projects in January, laying out which of several projects previously discussed by planners will be the first to be built with $4.55 billion of federal financing that was secured earlier this year. 
Those projects include the possible burying of part of West Street, building a grand arrival terminal for the subway and commuter rail lines at the trade center site, reconstruction of the South Ferry subway terminal and the revamping of the Nassau-Broadway subway station. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); RELOCATIONS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); WEB SITES (73%); TERRORISM (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



86 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Uses Budget Ax, Laying Off 3,000 Workers 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Layoff notices have started going out to 3,000 Connecticut state employees as Gov. John G. Rowland makes good on a threat to bring his budget ax down on government workers whose unions have refused to make concessions that he says are needed to balance the state's finances. 
 Mr. Rowland met yesterday in Hartford with top state legislators to discuss Connecticut's widening budget problems, but both administration and legislative officials said that preventing the layoffs was no longer part of the discussion. Union officials said they could only hope that future talks would reverse some of the layoffs, most of which take effect in January. 
 Connecticut, like most states, is struggling in a weak economy, though not nearly as much as New York or New Jersey. Since comfortably winning a third term last month, Mr. Rowland, a Republican, has had to face the prospect of filling a $500 million hole in this fiscal year's $13.2 billion budget as well as preparing to address a projected shortfall of $1.1 billion next year.
That is a fraction of the deficits in neighboring states, but in Connecticut, one of the nation's wealthiest states, talks of cutbacks or of increased taxes are always unsavory. Things quickly turned ugly last month after the state employees' unions angrily rejected an early retirement program that Mr. Rowland proposed as a cost-saving measure. 
The situation is likely to get uglier still: officials say that the layoffs are at most a small portion of the needed cuts and that taxes will certainly have to rise. Mr. Rowland's budget director, Marc S. Ryan, said yesterday that without quick action, Connecticut could run out of cash by late April or early May, forcing emergency borrowing.
Union officials said that Mr. Rowland's early retirement plan was tied to more than $1 billion in added cuts to wages and benefits over the next three years. The day after the unions rejected the plan, Mr. Rowland tersely vowed to lay off 3,000 of the state's 50,000 employees unless the unions agreed to concessions. 
So far, union officials have declined to return to the negotiating table and have suggested that the governor raise taxes on corporations and on the wealthy to generate revenue.
In the meantime, the layoff notices are on the way. The administration has not disclosed which departments will be hardest hit, saying only that the layoffs are "across the board." 
Things also quickly got personal, as James A. Amann, a Democrat who is the majority leader-elect of the Connecticut House, called on Mr. Rowland to set the tone in budget talks by forgoing or postponing a $72,000 raise in the governor's salary set to take effect on Jan. 8. The governor is paid $78,000 a year now. 
Last week, Mr. Rowland announced an additional $68 million in budget cuts that were already approved by the General Assembly or that he had the authority to make on his own. Yesterday he said he would consider consolidating some agencies and even planned to lay off some deputy commissioners, who are his own political appointees. 
None of these proposals come anywhere close to addressing the state's yawning budget gap, setting the stage for a showdown between the Republican administration and the General Assembly, which is controlled by Democrats. 
The next legislative session does not begin until January, but the governor could call a special session before Christmas to force lawmakers to address the budget troubles. 
Mr. Rowland's aides insist that he needs the cooperation of unions and the General Assembly, while critics accuse the governor of avoiding the unpalatable questions of how and when to raise taxes. 
Mr. Rowland's spokesman, Christopher Cooper, said the governor was pleased with yesterday's meeting with legislators. "The governor considers it a very encouraging sign that Democrats and Republicans and administration budget people are all sitting down at the table together." 
But the meeting resulted in no concrete decisions on filling the budget gap, and Mr. Amann renewed his criticism of the administration, calling on Mr. Rowland to present a budget proposal instead of negotiating cuts piecemeal with legislators. 
"This governor should show the fortitude and the guts to be straightforward with the public and say, 'Here's my plan,' " Mr. Amann said.
Dan Livingston, the chief negotiator for a coalition of 31 bargaining units from the various state employees' unions, said Mr. Rowland was asking for long-term concessions without offering a long-term budget plan. "The layoffs are an irresponsible act," he said. "They will not advance a solution one inch. In fact, they will make things worse." 
"We're willing to help with a genuine solution," Mr. Livingston said. "What the governor wants us to be part of is a way to avoid asking the rich and powerful to pay their fair share, and we're not willing to help with that." 
Mr. Ryan, the governor's budget chief, said the unions' refusal to negotiate had forced Mr. Rowland's hand.
There is little solace, he said, in Connecticut's being better off than its neighbors. "It's all relative," Mr. Ryan said. "We have a pretty substantial fiscal crisis that we have to deal with. The only rosy picture is that other states have it worse." He added, "We went from peak to trough so quickly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: To help balance the budget, Gov. John G. Rowland announced layoffs of union members yesterday in Hartford. His right hand is bandaged because he injured his thumb when he fell walking his dog on Thursday. (Associated Press)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



87 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Big Sales Draw Crowds, Not Big Gains for Retailers 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
Message to retailers: Don't break out the Champagne. At least not yet.
 Despite a sharp increase in the number of shoppers crowding chain stores and malls over the weekend, analysts yesterday were repeating their warnings that this may well be a gloomy holiday for many retailers. 
 According to the analysts, big discounts and aggressive pricing by Wal-Mart Stores generated news photos of long lines, empty shelves and euphoric bargain hunters, but may have skewed the retail picture. "If you offer $50 television sets, people will line up," said Richard Jaffe, an analyst with UBS Warburg. "But if you weren't offering $50 television sets, you suffered. If you were a strip center retailer and not a discounter like Best Buy or Wal-Mart, you suffered." 
Michael Niemura, a senior economist for the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, said sales at stores open at least a year -- known as same-store sales -- may be flat or show only a small increase. "Expect very weak numbers for November," he said. The figures will be released on Thursday.
Beyond that, analysts are predicting that some retailers will report combined sales for November and December that are actually below last year's figures for the period, when many shoppers were still shocked from the events of Sept. 11th. 
Retailers were buoyed by estimates of total retail sales for the three-day Thanksgiving weekend issued by ShopperTrak RCT, numbers that beat last year's sales by 12.4 percent. But Barbara Johnson, a managing partner at ShopperTrak, was quick to point out that the gain was probably driven largely by discounters like Wal-Mart, Target and Best Buy. And analysts warned that even Wal-Mart's figures may not be as good as they looked initially.
Wal-Mart, the king of America's discounters, reported a one-day sales record for Friday -- the day known as Black Friday because red ink is supposed to change to black. Wal-Mart reported a gain of almost 14.5 percent over the previous Black Friday, but the company opened 127 stores in the last year, thereby inflating the gain. 
Todd Slater, an analyst for Lazard, said his company was sticking by its negative estimates for Wal-Mart's store-against-store sales. Mr. Slater is predicting that sales at Wal-Mart stores that have been open at least a year will be down 8 percent from last year.
Wal-Mart, one of the big winners last weekend, is so big the company accounts for more than 15 percent of the nation's retail sales. Like many discount stores, Wal-Mart offered early-bird specials and bargains galore, including 27-inch televisions for $148. 
Other stores offered generous early-bird specials. "Filene's was offering $300 gift certificates to the first shoppers beginning at 7 a.m," Mr. Slater said. "Not surprisingly, there was a feeding frenzy."
"Our sense after spending three days in malls is that this was by no means the greatest Thanksgiving ever," he said.
Mr. Slater said the large volume of sales was a result of the bargains -- the so-called doorbusters -- offered by retailers "desperate to salvage the month" and by the cold weather, which impelled people to buy scarves, gloves and sweaters.
Nevertheless, Lazard is predicting that some of the other big names in retail will be negative on Thursday, including Target (Lazard predicts a 7 percent decline in sales for November compared with November last year), Talbots (it predicts a 3 percent loss) and Abercrombie & Fitch (it predicts a fall of 5 percent in November sales).
J. C. Penney, which has said its same-store sales for November will probably be flat, has already announced that its catalog sales for December will be down 20 percent. But the company said its Thanksgiving weekend sales were "significantly higher" than last year -- without releasing figures.
While the discounters did their best to offer megadiscounts last weekend, other stores were less busy. 
At the Ann Taylor store on Madison Avenue near 60th Street on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, business seemed slow on Sunday, despite some deep-discount deals; the store was giving 15 percent off, even for reduced merchandise -- some of that already 50 percent off.
A half-off sale yesterday at Dooney & Burke, in the same neighborhood, drew perhaps four or five customers at one point in the afternoon, most of them women, listlessly glancing at the suede gloves, originally $35, now $17.50. 
While drastic price-cutting was the rule -- the Old Navy in the Providence Place Mall in Providence, R.I., had dozens of signs shouting 'sale' stuck on tables full of picked-over merchandise -- there were a few retailers that did not follow the trend. They were the ones that pronounced themselves pleased at the end of the weekend.
Ron Frasch, the chief executive at Bergdorf Goodman, the upper, upper-end Fifth Avenue department store, said that it had been a busy weekend, full of shoppers who came from outside New York City. (The tourists, he said, are back.) 
And while Mr. Frasch, like other store executives, refused to release sales figures, he said the numbers were good.
Breaking the mold, the Sharper Image was one company that released statistics -- at least percentages. Same-store sales for the post-Thanksgiving three-day weekend rose 27 percent from Thanksgiving weekend of last year and "capped a month of strong sales with minimal promotional pricing," boasted a statement Sharper Image issued yesterday.
The company said its Internet sales were up 81 percent from the previous year, underlining a generally successful Thanksgiving period for retail Web sites.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about retail sales over the Thanksgiving weekend misstated a forecast for Wal-Mart Stores made by Todd Slater, an analyst at Lazard. He predicted that November sales would be up by 3.3 percent over those of November 2001, not down 8 percent. The article also misstated the denomination of gift certificates distributed by Filene's during the weekend to its first customers. They were for $15, not $300 (300 was the number of shoppers who got them).

GRAPHIC: Photo: One shopper at the Children's Place at the Gurnee Mills shopping mall in Illinois looked at toys, electronics and other products on sale. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); THANKSGIVING (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



88 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue-Chip Shares Fall, While Technology Issues Gain

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks sagged yesterday after a report showed that manufacturing shrank for a third consecutive month, but technology shares inched up after Wall Street investment banks made upbeat comments on the chip and wireless industries. 
 Shares shot higher after the opening bell, with the Nasdaq index jumping as much as 2.9 percent on news of strong holiday sales at retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and an investment upgrade on Intel. 
 But the upswing hit a bump when a manufacturing report from the Institute for Supply Management was weaker than economists had forecast and signaled that output was still contracting. 
"A lot of people thought the economy had turned the corner and this brings us back to reality," said John Cassady, senior portfolio manager at Fifth/Third Bank Investment Advisors. "Manufacturing is mired in this no-growth area, and I think that's going to be the case for a while." 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 33.52 points, or 0.4 percent, at 8,862.57. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.78 points, or 0.2 percent, to 934.53. The technology-heavy Nasdaq was up 6 points, or 0.4 percent, at 1,484.78. 
The poor showing for the manufacturing index put a damper on the recent rally for the three major stock gauges, which posted their second consecutive month of gains in November. 
Chip makers rose after Lehman Brothers raised its ratings on Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, citing growing demand for computers that use the two companies' microchips. Intel gained 17 cents, to $21.05; Advanced Micro rose 43 cents, to $8.93. 
"There's some belief in the market that we're slowly wending our way to improved demand," said Marian Kessler, a fund manager for Rutherford Investment Management in Portland, Ore. "Tech is the flavor of the day." 
Wireless stocks also helped the technology sector. AT&T Wireless Services rose 50 cents, to $8.05, after a Morgan Stanley analyst, Luiz Carvalho, said the stock was his top pick. Shares in the Sprint PCS Group increased 43 cents, to $6.19. 
Nextel Partners rose $1.45, to $8.05, after announcing that Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, had increased his stake in the company to more than 5 percent. Shares of Microsoft shares edged up 1 cent, to $57.69. 
Shares in Johnson & Johnson dropped $1.32, to $55.70, because of worries that French regulators may ban the use of the company's anemia drug for people with chronic kidney failure, because of worrisome side effects.
Manufacturing stocks also weighed on the Dow average. Shares in Caterpillar, the heavy-equipment maker, dropped 68 cents, to $49.22, while shares in 3M sagged $1.40 to $128.45. 
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of manufacturing business conditions was at 49.2 in November, below forecasts for 51.3. The 50 mark signals the divide between expansion and contraction. 
Losses in the Dow were kept in check by Wal-Mart, which rose 22 cents, to $54.38, after the company posted record one-day sales for the day after Thanksgiving, and an independent poll by ShopperTrak found sales at all retailers were up more than 12 percent over last year. 
In the bond markets, Treasury prices recouped early losses to stay steady on the day.
The 10-year note fell 2/32, to a price of 98 7/32. The note's yield was unchanged at 4.22 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1/32, to 104 30/32. The yield was unchanged at 5.05 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.69499.348High Rate1.2101.290Investment Rate1.2311.316Low Rate1.18%1.25%Median Rate1.20%1.27%Total applied for$41,234,288$35,114,662Accepted$19,041,968$20,629,748Noncompetitive$1,417,746$1,018,489

Both issues are dated Dec. 05, 2002. The three-month bills mature on March 6, 2003, and the six-month bills mature on June 5, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since August. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (50%); ANEMIA (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (85%); AT&T INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (72%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); SPRINT PCS GROUP (63%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); T (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (72%); JNJ (NYSE) (62%); AMD (NYSE) (54%); AMD (FRA) (54%); MS (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (72%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



89 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Will China Blindside The West? 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: GAOSHAN, China 

 BODY:
This is the story of the Dai family in China's remote Dabie Mountains, and a reminder that we're not doing much to prepare for perhaps the most important long-term trend in the world -- the rise of China.
 The Dais live here in Gaoshan, a hamlet in central China's Hubei Province. I met them in 1990, when their eldest child, an excellent sixth-grade student named Dai Manju, had just dropped out of school because the family could not afford $13 in annual school fees. 
 Gaoshan had no electricity and was a two-hour hike from the nearest dirt road. The Dais shared their mud-brick house with their pig, and they owned nothing: no watch, no bicycle, no change of clothes. 
I wrote about Dai Manju back then, and a reader sent her $100 to help, but Morgan Guaranty Trust Company missed a decimal point and sent $10,000 instead. The villagers were mightily impressed by American generosity -- and carelessness. 
The money went not to the villagers but to the county authorities, who used it to cover school fees for Dai Manju and other pupils and, mostly, to build a desperately needed school in another district. Since then, gaps between rich and poor have worsened in China, and so I decided to seek out the Dai family again. I thought I would find them still living amid desperate poverty and official indifference, allowing me to write a reality-check column about how the Chinese boom has boosted coastal areas but left the vast interior little changed.
But then I came to the end of the old dirt road -- and found that the path had been extended a few years ago so that now it is possible to drive all the way to Gaoshan. Every home in the village now has electricity. Two families even have telephones.
As for the Dais, they are living in a new six-room house, made of concrete. The pig lives outside. The parents proudly showed me their stove, television and electric fan.
Dai Manju turned out to have graduated from high school and then from technical school in accounting, and such lofty academic credentials are no longer uncommon in Gaoshan. She and her two siblings are working in Guangdong Province, all earning $125 a month or more -- what her father earned in a year.
These inland rural areas lag behind the coastal regions, and so the income gaps are growing. But lives are unmistakably getting better almost everywhere. (The only exception I saw was Henan Province, where AIDS is impoverishing villages.) Partly gains come because peasants in villages like Gaoshan go south to work in those sweatshops denounced by American students but treasured by Chinese workers.
The lesson, for me, is that China's transformation is trickling even into the poor interior, dragging all 1.3 billion people into the world economy. When historians look back on our time, I think they'll focus on the resurgence of China after 500 years of weakness -- and the way America was oblivious as this happened.
Plenty can still go wrong in China, from a banking crisis (national banks are insolvent) to labor riots (laid-off workers are grumbling everywhere). The government is often brutal and is catastrophically mismanaging an AIDS crisis. 
But it's possible for China simultaneously to torture people and enrich them. Human and financial capital are growing and being deployed more sensibly, and a ferocious drive and work ethic are galvanizing even remote nooks like Gaoshan. 
For most of human history, China was the world's largest economy and most advanced civilization. Then it stagnated after about 1450, but some estimates are that even as late as 1820 China amounted to 32 percent of the world's G.D.P. -- and then it utterly collapsed.
Now, with the Dais and a billion people like them emerging from subsistence, China is on course eventually to recover its traditional pre-eminence. And just as China at its peak was blindsided by the rise of the West, we're likely to be blindsided by the rise of China.
You want a Thanksgiving example of that drive I mentioned? Some years ago, a friend was among a group of Americans teaching English in Sichuan Province, and when they couldn't locate a turkey for Thanksgiving they asked a government official for help. Eager to please the Americans, he arranged a feast that included, amazingly, two turkeys. 
Later it turned out that he'd confiscated them from the local zoo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HIKING (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); SWEATSHOPS (70%); COUNTIES (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); FARM LABOR (63%); GARMENT WORKERS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RURAL AREAS; TORTURE 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); HENAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) CHINA; GAOSHAN (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



90 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Lucky Duckies! 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Carping critics of the conservative movement have been known to say that its economic program consists of little more than tax cuts, tax cuts and more tax cuts. I may even have said that myself. If so, I apologize. Emboldened by the midterm election, key conservative ideologues have now declared their support for tax increases -- but only for people with low incomes.
 The public debut of this idea came, as such things often do, on the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal. The page's editors, it seems, are upset that some low-income people pay little or nothing in income taxes. Not, mind you, because of the lost revenue, but because these "lucky duckies" -- The Journal's term, not mine -- might not be feeling a proper hatred for the government. 
 The Journal considers a hypothetical ducky who earns only $12,000 a year -- some guys have all the luck! -- and therefore, according to the editorial, "pays a little less than 4% of income in taxes." Not surprisingly, that statement is a deliberate misrepresentation; the calculation refers only to income taxes. If you include payroll and sales taxes, a worker earning $12,000 probably pays well over 20 percent of income in taxes. But who's counting?
 What's interesting, however, is what The Journal finds wrong with this picture: The worker's taxes aren't "enough to get his or her blood boiling with rage."
 In case you're wondering what this is about, it's an internal squabble of the right. The Journal is terrified that future tax cuts might include token concessions to ordinary families; it wants to ensure that everything goes to corporations and the wealthy. But the political theory revealed by the editorial -- policy should be nasty to people with low incomes, lest they have any good feelings about government -- may explain a lot of what has been happening lately.
 For example, House Republicans recently refused to extend unemployment insurance. Their inaction means that later this month more than 800,000 workers will receive Merry Christmas letters from the government, telling them that their benefits have been cut off. This would have been a harsh decision under any circumstances. At a time when the administration says we need further tax cuts to stimulate demand, slashing the incomes of the very households most likely to cut their spending sounds like a lose-lose proposition. But once you realize that pain is good because it makes citizens hate their government, it all makes sense. 
 An even better example is the failure of Congress to provide adequate funds for the State Children's Health Insurance Program. The details of the legislative maneuvering are complex, but what it comes down to is that conservatives showed no interest in maintaining adequate funding for this highly successful program. The sums involved are not large, by Washington standards. But the results will be dramatic: according to Office of Management and Budget estimates, 900,000 children will lose health insurance over the next three years. 
 We are, of course, now living in what George W. Bush has called the "era of personal responsibility": if a child chooses to have parents who can't afford health care, that child will have to accept the consequences. But there may also be political calculation involved. Again, the government mustn't do anything good, because then people might not realize that government is bad. Understand? 
 What do we learn from this catalog of cruelties? We learn that "compassionate conservatism" and "leave no child behind" were empty slogans -- but while this may have come as a surprise to the faith-based John J. DiIulio, some of us thought it was obvious all along. More important, we learn how relentless and extremist today's conservative movement really is. 
 Some people -- moderate Republicans who aren't ready to admit what has happened to their party, and Democrats who think their party can appease the right by making its own promises of smaller government -- still don't get it. They imagine that at some point the right will decide that it has gotten what it wants. 
 But the right's ambitions have no limits, and nothing moderates can offer will appease it. Eventually the public, which actually benefits from most of the programs the right is determined to abolish, will figure that out. But how fast voters figure it out depends a lot on whether moderate politicians clearly articulate the issues, or try to escape detection by sounding like conservatives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); CHRISTMAS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); TAXATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET JOURNAL 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



91 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE ALLIES; 
U.S. Presses Turkey's Case on Europe and Cyprus

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
The United States, in an unusually direct move into the politics of European integration, is campaigning vigorously to advance Turkey's prospects for entering the European Union and is encouraging a settlement of the long-standing Cyprus dispute.
 Bush administration officials say the effort -- which aims to settle the issue before a European summit meeting starting Dec. 12 -- is motivated by longstanding foreign policy considerations. 
 But American officials acknowledge that the diplomacy is also an important element of Washington's effort to secure Turkey's backing for a potential military campaign against Iraq. 
In London today, Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz urged European Union nations to set a date for initiating negotiations on Turkey's eventual membership. His speech, which dwelled heavily on Turkey, came a day before he was scheduled to leave for Ankara to try to discuss planning for a possible military campaign in Iraq. 
"The decision on E.U. members is, of course, Europe's to make," Mr. Wolfowitz said at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. "But history suggests that a European Union that welcomes Turkey will be even stronger, safer and more richly diverse than it is today. The alternative, exclusionary choice is surely unthinkable."
His comments stood in marked contrast to recent remarks by Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president, who is heading an effort to draft a constitution for a newly integrated Europe. Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, reflecting a sentiment not uncommon in Western Europe, told the newspaper Le Monde last month that Turkey was not a European country and that inviting it into the European Union would mean "the end of Europe."
Some American officials said they realized that trying to overcome European resistance to Turkey's integration into Europe in the next 10 days is something of a long shot.
Even so, Mr. Wolfowitz said a move to indicate that Turkey would eventually be welcome in the European Union would encourage continued political and economic change in Turkey. He added that it could also send a signal to Islamic nations that there is not a fundamental clash between the West and nations with a Muslim majority.
"Turkey offers a valuable model for Muslim-majority countries striving to realize the goals of freedom, secularism and democracy," Mr. Wolfowitz said. "Those who would criticize Turkey for its problems confuse what is challenging with what is fundamental. They focus too much on the problems Turkey is struggling today and ignore where it is heading."
Turkey's desire to enter the European Union and hostility between the Turkish and Greek populations on the island of Cyprus have long been seen as second-order foreign policy issues in Washington.
But a number of new factors have combined to push the issues toward the top of the American policy agenda. They include the recent change of government in Turkey and a new plan by the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, to resolve the Cyprus issue, a plan the United States shaped behind the scenes and encouraged the United Nations chief to present. The plan calls for a loose confederation among the Greek and Turkish populations on the divided island and a reduction of the territory under Turkish control.
Another key factor in bringing Turkish issues to the fore in Washington is the Pentagon's desire to solidify relations with Ankara.
Mr. Wolfowitz said today that the goal should be to achieve a breakthrough on Cyprus and fix a date for talks on Turkish membership in the European Union by the time the leaders of the 15 member nations gather in Copenhagen for a summit meeting focused on expanding the union.
The American position is being supported by the British, who are anxious to put together a deal on Cyprus, where they maintain a military presence. The British foreign secretary, Jack Straw, is flying to Turkey on Tuesday to seek Ankara's help in achieving a settlement.
Mr. Wolfowitz is headed to Ankara to consult with the new government that came to power after the Justice and Development Party, a Muslim-based party led by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, won the parliamentary elections last month. But Mr. Wolfowitz has a somewhat different agenda from Mr. Straw's.
In the event of a conflict with Iraq, the Pentagon would like to open a northern front so Iraq's forces would have to deal with multiple attacks.
Bush administration officials say they are aware that the new Turkish government is still settling in. It held its first national security council meeting on Friday.
But the Pentagon needs to complete its military planning so that it will be prepared to act if Iraq is deemed to be failing to cooperate with United Nations demands for a full accounting of its weapons of mass destruction.
An American official said one message that would be delivered in Ankara was "that you need to be realistic about us."
"We are developing military plans that have a certain momentum," the official continued. "It is not possible to keep all of our options open."
If the European Union set a date for talks over Turkey's membership, the negotiations might not begin for a year or so. It could take the better part of a decade before the European Union, which is to expand to include several formerly Communist nations, Malta and possibly Cyprus beginning in 2004, decided that Turkey qualified for membership.
Charles Grant, the director of the Center for European Reform, said Mr. Wolfowitz had presented a number of good arguments on why Turkey should eventually quality to join the European Union. But Mr. Grant also said he doubted that European nations would agree to set a date to start talks with Turkey on membership, as Mr. Wolfowitz suggested. The Europeans, Mr. Grant said, may be willing only to set a date to review Turkey's case.
American officials have highlighted Turkey's progress, including a decision by the new government to lift the state of emergency in two Kurdish provinces. But while American officials say European unease over admitting a large Muslim state is a major obstacle to Turkey's bid to integrate, some Europeans say Washington's desire to enhance its strategic relationship with Ankara has made it too eager to overlook human rights issues and other problems in Turkey.
"Generally when Americans push the E.U. to let in Turkey, Europeans tend to get a bit prickly," Mr. Grant said. "Partly that is because it is our internal business. Wolfowitz was right to make his points, but there is still a lot of work to do in Turkey that he did not dwell on."
Even if European nations fail to set a date for membership talks with Turkey, American officials say they hope Ankara gives them credit for trying to push the issue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul D. Wolfowitz pressed for Turkish integration into Europe at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RELIGION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (52%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (82%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (96%); CYPRUS (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%) EUROPE; TURKEY; CYPRUS; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



92 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Index Is Lower; Construction Spending Rises 

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Manufacturing contracted for a third consecutive month in November, and with businesses still reluctant to invest heavily in an uncertain economy, factory sluggishness is showing little sign of ending soon, a report released yesterday indicated.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its index of manufacturing business conditions was at 49.2 in November, below forecasts of 51.3 and under the 50 level that separates expansion from contraction. 
 Manufacturing makes up about a fifth of the economy, but carries greater importance because so much business investment in heavy-duty capital goods is related to factories. 
Employment in manufacturing continued to decline in November, and that index remained below the 50 level for the 26th consecutive month -- at 43.8, down from 45.0 in October. 
"The manufacturing sector remains stagnant," said Stephen Stanley, senior market economist at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets. "The new-orders decline and employment declines were not a good sign." 
Yesterday's main index reading was above the October level of 48.5, but below the 49.5 of September. 
Norbert J. Ore, who oversees the monthly survey for the institute, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., said, "The trend is well established that the overall economy is holding up, but the manufacturing sector is feeling the brunt of the downturn."
The institute's new-orders index fell in November to 49.9, from 50.9 in October and 50.2 in September. A barometer of future production, the new-orders index is down sharply from a peak of 65.3 in March. 
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said yesterday that spending for new construction rose 0.3 percent in October.
Nonresidential construction rose for the first time since April because of increases in the building of schools and stores, the report said. 
Outlays for all construction spending increased to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of $834.6 billion in October from a downward revised $832.5 billion in September.
At the same time, gains in housing prices slowed over all in the third quarter as the values of some homes, especially in the Midwest, declined from the previous quarter, a government agency said yesterday.
Average home values in the third quarter rose 6.16 percent compared with figures in the period a year earlier, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight said. That was slower than the 7.31 percent rise in the second quarter.
Average nationwide house prices rose 0.84 percent from the second quarter, the agency said in a quarterly report. That was less than the 2.39 percent gain from the first quarter to the second.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending"Total construction spending in billions at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Graph tracks construction spending since May 2001. Monthly ChangeOct.: +0.2%Sept.: +0.3%Aug.: -0.1% (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (87%); HOME PRICES (87%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



93 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: Doing Business by Cellphone Creates NewLiability Issues 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
Mobile phones, two-way pagers and other tools of modern life now mean that business can be conducted just about anywhere at any time. But that technological boon may make companies liable if employees using those gadgets are involved in accidents -- usually car accidents.
 Already, Smith Barney, the investment banking firm, has paid $500,000 to settle a lawsuit brought by the family of a motorcyclist killed in Pennsylvania by one of its brokers who was talking on the phone while driving, according to a lawyer for the victim's family. But in Minnesota, where a psychiatric nurse reached for her cellphone while driving home and rammed another car, the jury concluded that answering the call was not part of her job. 
 The resulting confusion over the law is one reason that employers and their lawyers will be closely observing the outcome of a suit filed in Virginia against a law firm whose associate was driving and, the plaintiffs contend, talking to clients when she killed a teenage girl in the summer of 2000. That trial is scheduled to begin next week. 
These cases and several others like them are plowing new legal ground in determining the ways companies will be responsible for events outside the traditional workplace and outside traditional work hours. They have employers nervously trying to develop policies to prevent or reduce their exposure to such lawsuits, employment lawyers say. But it is not easy because no one is sure what kind of policy will shield companies against liability.
"Employers have been liable for negligence for years, but the application of the negligence doctrine to our technological society is in fact relatively new," said Gerald D. Skoning, a lawyer with Seyfarth Shaw in Chicago. "Prudent employers need to be wary of this new area."
Some companies have instructed employees simply to follow the law; if the law prohibits using a handset while driving, then employees must comply.
But that may not protect them against responsibility for an employee who makes a work-related call anyway while driving. Other companies have gone further, barring employees on the job from using cellphones at all to eliminate potential distractions.
Cellphones are not the only potential risk, lawyers say. All kinds of gadgets that let people work on the road -- beepers, laptops, two-way pagers and the like -- may lead to situations in which an employer could be found "vicariously liable," Mr. Skoning said. For example, an employee crossing the street might be typing so vigorously into a two-way pager that he would never notice an approaching bus. Would that employee be covered by workers' compensation?
Probably, unless a company policy forbade wandering around typing into pagers, said Lawrence Lorber, a partner at Proskauer Rose in Washington. But nothing is certain, he added. "I don't know that a lot of this has been addressed," he said. "It's all new, so you're going to have very few reported cases."
Cellphones create problems for more employers than do older forms of mobile communication, like CB radios. Those radios and tools like them are often used by truck drivers and others whose job it is to be on the road, leaving employers clearly responsible for any accidents caused by their drivers. Mobile phones, because they allow people whose job may be at a desk to work from a car -- even when their job is not to drive -- may make thousands of new companies liable.
The Virginia lawsuit against Cooley Godward, the employer of the lawyer who ran over a 15-year-old girl, could help set a precedent in this fuzzy area. The lawyer, Jane Wagner, pleaded guilty to a felony and has already completed a one-year work-release program, according to her lawyer. Now the civil suit against the law firm is about to begin.
Civil lawsuits against the employers continue independently of any criminal case against the individual employee, lawyers said. For example, the Smith Barney broker served less than a year in a work-release program after pleading guilty to manslaughter, according to his lawyer, John Waldron. Smith Barney settles the civil lawsuit in 1999, according to Edward R. Eidelman, a lawyer for the family of the victim.
But no one is sure what companies must do to avoid or at least limit liability. Companies' lawyers do not want to rely on unpredictable juries and would prefer to know how to give clients reliable protection.
In the Minnesota case, Renee Diane Rivera hit another car as she reached for her cellphone after her daughter paged her. The jury concluded that answering the call was not part of Ms. Rivera's job -- although the pager was provided by her employer -- and so her employer was not liable. Ms. Rivera was not charged with any criminal wrongdoing, according to one of her lawyers, Lawrence M. Rocheford. 
In another case, in Texas, a jury found that only the teenage driver of a van -- which was covered by insurance bought by her parents' company -- was liable for an accident that killed a 3-year-old riding in a Honda Civic and severely injured the other occupants. The teenage driver was trying to answer a cellphone at the time. She was sentenced to 24 months on probation. The Texas plaintiffs had sought to hold the employers liable as well because of the prospect of a much greater monetary gain.
Victims have long had an incentive to go after such "deep pockets," noted Mark McDonald, a partner at Morrison & Foerster in Los Angeles. "It doesn't appear so much to be anything new," he said. "For a long time, we have seen cases where plaintiffs are naming more and more defendants in an attempt to find someone who will pay off."
The risk of big damages may even extend beyond employers. In August, a woman who was nearly killed when her car was hit by a teenager who was driving while listening to the radio and chatting on a cellphone won a $28 million verdict against Chase Manhattan Automotive Finance. Chase had leased the car to the boy's father.
To avoid the risk that a work-related call may be blamed for accidents, more employers have decided to prohibit employees from using cellphones to conduct business while driving, said Peter A. Susser, a partner at Littler Mendelson in Washington.
"We are getting more and more questions about this as technology and the use of it spreads through all kinds of jobs, not just white-collar jobs," he said. It is difficult to determine, though, how many lawsuits have been filed against employers. While there are probably quite a few accidents involving employees, most do not result in a trial in which the outcome can provide guidance to other companies.
"It's going to become even more of an issue as states collect more information" on accidents that involved people on the phone, Mr. Susser said.
A study released yesterday by the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis concluded that a ban on the use of cellphones while driving may cost the economy just as much as the accidents caused by drivers using the phones. Over all, the Harvard study found that drivers on cellphones are involved in roughly one in 20 traffic accidents.
But executives at many companies do not want to pay for the damage their employees cause. Companies and their lawyers are struggling to balance the usefulness of having a cellphone available against concerns about being hit by an expensive jury verdict. Indeed, a too-draconian policy aimed at shielding a company may simply be ignored and create more liability problems, said Tony Lentini, vice president for public and international affairs at the Apache Corporation, an oil and gas company in Houston. It considered an absolute prohibition against using cellphones while driving but rejected it in favor of a recommendation against the practice and a requirement that employees follow local laws.
"What we didn't want to do was put in a policy that would be routinely ignored, because that's bad policy," Mr. Lentini said. "If you create a law that everybody's going to disregard -- Prohibition is a prime example -- then you're going to create disrespect for the law."
By contrast, Bronco Wine, one of California's largest wineries, opted for a tougher rule for basic safety reasons, said Michael J. Franzia, director of human resources at the company. With the help of lawyers at Littler Mendelson, Bronco drafted a policy prohibiting employees from using mobile phones (or even having them switched on) any time they are working.
The concerns had to do with making wine; most of Bronco's employees are not on the road. "Serious mistakes can be made because people are not paying attention to what they're doing," Mr. Franzia said. For example, if an employee responsible for precisely mixing two types of wine together to make a cabernet-merlot blend is distracted, the result could be a big batch of ruined wine, he said. Employees also might mislabel bottles of wine. "You want your employees to be 100 percent dedicated to what they're doing," he said.
More seriously, he said, an employee talking on a phone while on the floor of the company's facility in Sonoma County might not notice contamination -- perhaps even shards of glass -- within an empty bottle. In such a case, it would be very hard to argue that the employer was not liable, lawyers say.
"God forbid that would ever happen," Mr. Franzia said, adding that a mechanical sanitation system would almost certainly detect that problem. "But there are a lot of areas in the winery where people could, because they're distracted, eventually cause a third-party injury."
The greater risk of employer liability for accidents involving employees also means insurance companies may face more claims.
"Insurers are exposed in more circumstances than we have been in the past," said Tim Diveley, a vice president at Chubb & Son, an insurance company "We're now looking at people potentially on the road working or at home working. They're spread out all over the place."
Still, Mr. Diveley said he had not yet seen a significant increase in the number of claims filed by employers who are seeking coverage because of accidents involving employees working at nontraditional times or in nontraditional places.
Without a clear track record, employers remain at risk. Indeed, one company that requires its employees to pull over when taking a cellphone call was recently sued anyway, with the plaintiff complaining that she ran into a car because the employee had not pulled off the road completely to make a call.
Having a policy in place, said Mr. Skoning, the corporate negligence lawyer, "is not a bulletproof shield. But it's a pretty good first step."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); LAWYERS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (74%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); NURSES & NURSING (55%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: SEYFARTH SHAW LLP (91%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITH BARNEY INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%) VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



94 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
BIGEL, JACK

 BODY:
BIGEL-Jack. HIP Health Plans mourns the passing of Jack Bigel. His indelible im pact on New York City affairs, ranging from consulting and advising the city's labor unions to his key role in help ing to resolve the city's financial crisis in the mid 1970's, are exceptional landmarks of an outstanding career and a significant part of his legacy. 
Our condolences are extend ed to his entire family.
 BIGEL-Jack. The United Federation of Teachers mourns the passing of a brilliant, creative labor advisor and negotiator. He played a unique role in the city's mid70's fiscal crisis, working with the union pension funds to rescue the city. We will miss his humor, his history and his perspective. Our sincere condolences to Ruth and the family. Randi Weingarten, President 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%)

PERSON: BIGEL, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



95 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: United Reaches Modified Deal With Union; New Vote Set 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
United Airlines, struggling to stay out of bankruptcy court, reached a tentative agreement with its machinists' union today on a revised package of concessions in place of one that the workers turned down last week.
 The union's membership will vote on the modified terms on Thursday, and United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, said it would take advantage of a grace period that would allow it more time to make a crucial debt payment that had been due today. 
 But a campaign by rival airlines opposed to federal loan guarantees for United continued, with Continental setting forth a gloomy outlook for United's future.
The union that represents the 13,000 United mechanics, the International Association of Machinists, said its members would vote on $700 million in wage and benefit cuts. Though the package has the same economic value as the one that workers rejected last week, the proposal was changed to address concerns about workplace issues and lost vacation time. 
Separately, the airline said it was taking advantage of the grace period on a $375 million loan backed by aircraft. United said it had delayed the payment, which will now be due on Dec. 16, to wait for a response on its application for $1.8 billion in federal loan guarantees, which it is seeking in hopes of avoiding a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing.
Investors reacted positively to the developments, lifting the price of UAL shares by 77 cents, or 30 percent, to $3.28. The stock regained the ground it lost on Friday, when investors sold after the mechanics voted to reject the first set of terms.
But United's competitors, which have opposed the bid for loan guarantees, gave the airline no rest in their campaign to defeat its application. In the latest of a series of documents meant to raise doubts about United's business plan, Continental today released a gloomy outlook for United's financial performance.
The forecast, which Continental said was based on the business plan that United submitted to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, contended that even if United received approval for the loan guarantees, it would run out of cash by the first quarter of 2004 and remain in a negative cash position through the end of 2004.
Continental's document also rebutted United's contention that it would return to an operating profit in 2004 and begin repaying the loans in 2005. According to Continental's calculations, United's operations would be unprofitable in every quarter between now and the end of 2004.
Continental argued that United's smallest quarterly operating loss, even after receiving loan guarantees, would be $231 million in the third quarter of 2004. It predicted that the losses would swell again by the end of 2004, presumably making it impossible to repay the loans. The analysis did not include the effects of a war with Iraq, which some analysts say could be devastating for the airline industry, depending on its length and severity.
Gordon M. Bethune, Continental's chief executive, said in an interview today that the analysis showed that United's restructuring plan was inherently flawed. "The concessions themselves are not enough for United to be a viable company," Mr. Bethune said by telephone from Houston. "The taxpayers are going to lose this money. All of it will be gone. They do not have a plan that will work."
Mr. Bethune, whose airline sought bankruptcy protection in 1983 and 1990 before emerging from Chapter 11 in 1993, said no bank would lend money to United based on the business plan it had presented to the loan board. He was sharply critical of United's management, including its chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, who joined UAL in September after serving as vice chairman of ChevronTexaco. "These guys are in disarray," Mr. Bethune said. "They don't know what they're doing, and you have a C.E.O. who is clueless as to the machinations of the industry."
United's chief financial officer, Frederic F. Brace III, vigorously defended the ability of United's management team and said that Continental's assumptions about its finances were incorrect. Mr. Brace said today that Continental had not taken into account the full effect of concessions that United would receive up front from its employees. He also said Continental was being far too pessimistic in its predictions of the airline's future revenue..
"Any financial person with any degree of competence can make numbers say whatever they want them to say," Mr. Brace said in an interview. "We think their analysis is flawed and would not stand up to scrutiny" by the loan guarantee board.
The board is expected to meet later this week to consider United's application, which was originally filed in June and has since been revised because of a series of questions by the board's three voting members and its staff about the viability of United's business plan. 
United has marshaled a series of influential Washington figures, including the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, a Republican from United's home state, Illinois, to lobby on its behalf. At the same time, Continental, Northwest Airlines and American Airlines have circulated their own documents and arguments against United's proposal.
Today, Tim Doke, vice president for corporate communications at American, said United had offered no proof that the concessions sought from its employees would help United get back on its feet. "The cuts they are looking at from their labor groups really don't solve their long-term problems," Mr. Doke said. "That is an issue the board has to be focused on in doing their analysis" of United's application.
Mr. Brace of United replied: "We have spent a lot of time, and a lot of effort, putting together a business plan. We would prefer that the A.T.S.B. and their experts review our plan" and not take assertions by United competitors as fact.
Union leaders have joined the airline's management in disagreeing strongly with the rival airlines' previous criticism of the wage and benefit cuts, saying that the $5.2 billion in concessions were urgently needed to help United avoid a Chapter 11 filing.
Scotty Ford, president of the machinists' union local that represents United's mechanics, pleaded with members over the weekend to reverse their "no" vote. In announcing the revised package this morning, Mr. Ford told workers in a letter that the package offered "the final opportunity" for United to avert a bankruptcy filing. "On Thursday, you will be voting on more than your contract," he said. "You will be voting on the direction of your company, your job and your future. Weigh all options before you vote, and make an informed, educated decision."
During negotiations with the machinists, which began Sunday and lasted until early today, United insisted that the dollar amount of the new package had to remain the same as the one that was turned down on Thanksgiving Day by a margin of 57 percent to 43 percent. It called for pay and benefit cuts of 6 to 7 percent, depending on job classification, as well as the loss of four paid vacation days a year through 2008.
Union officials said workers had rejected the proposal in part because they were upset that they could not choose which specific days would be forfeited. Workers also thought the proposal should have addressed longstanding disputes over what the union terms "quality of work life" issues -- essentially matters at work sites that involve decisions made jointly by union and management.
Such efforts are supposed to encourage teamwork between the two sides. But mechanics and other union members at the airline have long said they do not have control over their schedules, which they say are dictated by management. And many union members have been displeased at what they consider the slow pace at which their complaints are resolved by supervisors.
Mr. Tilton, in a letter to Mr. Ford, said he would seek a report from the airline's labor relations department on the workplace issues by June 1. Mr. Tilton disclosed that United's concession agreements with each of its unions call for the establishment of committees to review the way each part of the airline is run. 
"Cost savings are necessary if we are to be able to avoid a Chapter 11 filing," he said, "but we must also have management working together with all employees to incorporate employee input."
Under the revised plan reached today, workers will still give up pay for four vacation days a year and will initially be asked to forfeit all of them during early 2003, when the airline "faces dire financial circumstances," said Peter B. Kain, United's vice president for labor relations. Later on, mechanics will be able to choose which of the four vacation days will be unpaid, with at least two falling in the first half of the year unless a union member has decided to take all of the vacation in the second half, Mr. Kain said.
The decision by the union to hold the new vote was followed later in the day by United's announcement on its debt. The company has a grace period of 10 business days to make the $375 million payment on the loans. United has about $1 billion in cash, and it is estimated by analysts to be losing $7 million to $8 million a day on operations. The airline has said it does not want its cash to fall below $700 million to $800 million in case it has to file for Chapter 11 protection.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of a United Airlines maintenance crew working on reassembly of an engine for a Boeing 777 at San Francisco International Airport. The mechanics, the only big union that has not approved concessions, will vote on revised terms later this week. (Peter DaSilva) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (66%); IRAQ WAR (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CREDIT; FINANCES; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); FRINGE BENEFITS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (83%); AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (59%) UNITED AIRLINES; AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD; INTERNATIONAL ASSN OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (86%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (86%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



96 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1957 words

HEADLINE: Can Global Warming Be Studied Too Much? 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
On Tuesday, the Bush administration convenes a three-day meeting here to set its new agenda for research on climate change. But many climate experts who will attend say talking about more research will simply delay decisions that need to be made now to avert serious harm from global warming.
 President Bush has called for a decade of research before anything beyond voluntary measures is used to stem tailpipe and smokestack emissions of heat-trapping gases that scientists say are contributing to global warming. 
 "When you're speeding down the road in your car, if you've got to turn around and go the other direction, the first thing is to slow down, then stop, then turn," said David K. Garman, the assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
But many climate experts say the perennial need for more study can no longer justify further delays in emission cuts. 
"Waiting 10 years to decide is itself a decision which may remove from the table certain options for stabilizing concentrations later," said Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences at Princeton.
For example, under today's rate of emissions growth, he and other experts say that certain losses are already probable, including dwindling of snow-dependent water supplies and global die-offs of vulnerable ecosystems like coral reefs, alpine meadows and certain coastal marshes.
Nevertheless, administration officials say further research is still necessary because scientists cannot say exactly what effects human activity will have on global climate and how dangerous they will be. It is worth taking the time to conduct more analysis at least to clarify the balance of environmental and economic risks, they say.
"Science rarely gives enough information to narrow policy choices to a single option, but it can clear away some of the underbrush," said Dr. John H. Marburger III, assistant to the president for science and technology.
Some energy and climate experts have run new kinds of analyses showing that there is still time to avoid the worst effects of climate change while also limiting economic costs involved with an abrupt shift from fossil fuels, the main source of the warming gases.
The meeting, involving hundreds of experts, will be the biggest public airing of arguments in many years.
Most scientists concur on the basics. Atmospheric levels of the heat-trapping gases, mainly carbon dioxide from burning coal and oil, have increased by more than a third since the start of the Industrial Revolution, and there is wide agreement that they will probably double from preindustrial concentrations by the end of the century, driven by energy demands of developing countries.
International and American panels of experts have concluded that these gases have caused most of the warming trend over the last 50 years. But there is still a wide range of projections indicating how much warmer things may get, how storm and drought patterns may respond and what the effects will be on ecosystems, agriculture and health. These uncertainties are unlikely to be dispelled soon. But many climate experts say that some effects can reasonably be predicted and that prudence calls for more action now.
Dr. Warren M. Washington, a senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, likened the situation to the debate over smoking's link to cancer.
"Even with smoking, it's still basically a statistical thing," said Dr. Washington, who is chairman of the National Science Board, a panel that advises the White House and Congress. "But vested interests do not want to take action based on early indications, and with climate early indications is what we have."
If greenhouse gas concentrations double, climate experts expect substantial disruptions of ecosystems and water supplies, coastal damage as sea levels rise and intensified drought and downpour cycles. Even more calamitous surprises could lie in store, including disruptions in the Atlantic Ocean currents that help warm Europe.
The experts concede that they cannot say exactly what may happen, or when. Also, changes will probably occur slowly -- sea levels rising by millimeters a year, say -- so there will be no one event to prompt people to choose a fuel-saving hybrid car over a gas-guzzling S.U.V.
But the warming will have enormous momentum, they say. Unlike soot or sulfur pollution, which falls out of the atmosphere within days or weeks, molecules of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases can circulate for a century or more. 
As a result, scientists say, allowing things to go on as they are is like making minimum payments on a credit card while still using it: the balance grows and grows.
In the long run, almost all experts agree, stabilizing carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere will be a century-plus process that will necessitate eliminating -- or capturing -- all releases of carbon dioxide from burning coal, oil and other fossil fuels.
That will require a fundamental shift to energy technologies that do not yet exist. But it also requires emission cuts in the next decade or so, even as trends for such emissions are sharply up.
"We will probably need everything in the tool kit to cut emissions enough to stop the worst things from happening," said David D. Doniger, the director of climate policy for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private group. "A long-term technology program is definitely in order, but we also need to be acting now with the technology available now."
But the Bush administration is resisting calls for quick action. Its focus on more research comes straight from the president. In his first speech on climate, in June 2001, Mr. Bush defended the need for more research by saying, "No one can say with any certainty what constitutes a dangerous level of warming, and therefore what level must be avoided."
In February, he reaffirmed the country's commitment to pursue the goal of a climate treaty his father signed in 1992: to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations at a level that will prevent dangerous interference with the climate.
But he has rejected the instrument chosen by almost all other industrialized countries to start on a path toward that goal, the 1997 agreement called the Kyoto Protocol. It requires industrialized countries that submit to its terms to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 2012 to levels below those measured in 1990.
Instead, Mr. Bush calls for voluntary actions.
Ten years from now, if scientists still think climate change is worrisome, other strategies may follow, he said. 
Although many climate experts say delays are risky, others, including Dr. James A. Edmonds of the Energy Department's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, have calculated that Mr. Bush's timetable and prompter actions like the Kyoto treaty do not lead to significantly different outcomes in the long run. The most critical challenge by far, he said, is the sharp decline in emissions in midcentury.
"We are still struggling with the 'what will be' question, especially at regional scales, which makes answering the 'what will be dangerous' question too difficult to handle," said one of these researchers, Dr. John R. Christy, the director of the Earth System Science Center at the University of Alabama in Huntsville.
As a result, he said, any emissions plan should be "economically benign."
The meeting this week is likely to see many clashes between the two camps, with more than 1,000 scientists, industry lobbyists, environmental campaigners and others planning to weigh in.
Sam Thernstrom, a spokesman for the White House Council on Environmental Quality, says the goal is to hear all views before the research plan is finished next spring and a series of two- to five-year projects is begun. 
"Anyone who has quibbled with how this plan is put together," he said, "they and the rest of the world are invited to come on down and make suggestions. All ideas will be considered."
Those eager for more aggressive actions say they doubt the meeting will lead to significant policy shifts, particularly now that relevant Congressional committees are controlled by Republicans pushing for more, not less, exploitation of fossil fuels.
They also say that the administration's 170-page research plan (available on the Web at www.climatescience.gov) includes no commitments that adequate money will flow to support new science.
To build a more convincing case for faster action, a growing group of researchers is trying new ways of conveying the risks of certain emissions paths, including pinpointing when actions have to start to stabilize greenhouse gases at particular levels.
The current concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is 370 parts per million, and the level before industrialization began was about 280 parts per million.
Under what is considered a best-case model, global annual emissions of carbon dioxide will have to start declining by 2020 to stabilize atmospheric carbon dioxide at 450 parts per million. Even at that level, there would probably be substantial losses, Dr. Oppenheimer and others say, including a global die-off of coral reefs. 
Societies have probably already missed that turning point, scientists say, and the longer societies wait to act, the higher the eventual greenhouse plateau and the greater the consequences.
If emissions do not start declining until 2033, carbon dioxide concentrations will plateau at 550 parts per million -- more than double preindustrial concentrations. That level raises the likelihood of more calamitous consequences, including intensified storm and drought cycles, wider extinction of species and perhaps the eventual freeing of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, which could raise sea levels a century or two from now 15 feet or more, inundating coasts where most human settlements are concentrated.
In between these extremes, some climate experts and economists see a path that could avoid the worst environmental and economic risks. The problem is that this would depend on a fairly prompt start on emission reductions and aggressive research on finding new sources of nonpolluting energy. 
There are other reasons for prompt action, experts say. One is that energy providers like power plant owners plan their investments in new equipment a decade or two ahead of time, said Dr. David G. Victor, the director of the energy and sustainable development program at Stanford. 
Another problem with relying on more research, many climate experts say, is the presumption that the extra effort will reveal a "safe" level of greenhouse gases.
Better computer models and observations are likely to refine the menu of impacts, but reducing uncertainty still "doesn't necessarily provide what is needed by decision makers," said Dr. Roger A. Pielke Jr., an expert on environmental risk at the University of Colorado. Society as a whole must answer those questions, he and other scientists say.
"To avoid danger implies a threshold," said Dr. Henry D. Jacoby, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and co-director of its program on the science and policy of global change. "But with climate, I don't believe there is one."
"There are so many different effects, in so many different countries, in so many different sectors, affecting so many different processes, affecting so many different people in so many different situations that there's not going to be a clearly defined break point," Dr. Jacoby said.
Dr. Jacoby likened the situation to a doctor-patient conference, when the patient learns that his high cholesterol puts him at risk for a heart attack.
"Is your next question 'Tell me exactly when my heart attack is coming and how serious it will be?' " Dr. Jacoby said. "No. You want to know what you can do about it now." 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A label and a caption for a satellite image in Science Times on Tuesday with an article about the prospects for government action on climate change referred incorrectly to an area off the Bahamas where coral reefs are threatened by global warming. Most of the area, the Great Bahama Bank, is sand under shallow water. It is not entirely coral reef.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The light blue areas in this satellite image are coral reefs around the Bahama Islands. They are vulnerable to global warming. (NASA via Agence France-Presse); This satellite image shows the Larsen B ice shelf shattering and separating from the main ice sheet on March 21. Much bigger ice breakups are possible. (NASA via Associated Press)(pg. F1); Climate experts say greenhouse gas concentrations may cause coastal damage as sea levels rise. Countries like the Netherlands, above, are particularly vulnerable. (Reuters)(pg. F4) Chart: "Acting Quickly to Avoid Catastrophe"Many scientists believe that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases must start declining within a decade or two to stabilize concentrations in the atmosphere. The more delay, the bigger the potential harms, they say. The paths to two possible outcomes are shown below. RISK: DIE-OFF OF CORAL REEFSThe first victims of warming are likely to be ecosystems, like coral reefs, that are already bumping against their tolerance for heat and climate change. ACTION TO PRESERVE REEFSEmission growth must be curbed, peaking in 2020 and falling afterward. Graph tracks possible emission growth if no measures are taken in billions of tons per year. RESULT -- Concentrations of carbon dioxide would level off at 450 parts per million by 2100. At this level, the reefs would still be threatened. Graph tracks carbon dioxide levels from 2000 through 2300. RISK: WEST ANTARCTIC ICE SHEET DISINTEGRATESPossibly the worst consequence of warming, and least predictable. Its melting could cause sea levels to rise 15 feet or more. ACTION TO PRESERVE ICE SHEETEmission growth must be curbed, peaking in 2033 and falling afterward. Graph tracks possible emission growth if no measures are taken in billions of tons. RESULT -- Concentrations of greenhouse gases would level off at 550 parts per million by 2150. Around this level, the risk of destabilizing the ice sheet rises. Graph tracks greeenhouse gases levels from 2000 through 2300. (Sources: Nature for chart data ; Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, Princeton University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DROUGHT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); COASTAL AREAS (65%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REVKIN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ANTARCTICA (79%); BAHAMAS (78%); NETHERLANDS (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



97 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Brazilian Rallying Neighbors Ahead of Meeting With Bush 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Hoping to strengthen his negotiating position in coming trade talks with the United States, Brazil's president-elect began an unofficial visit to Argentina and Chile here today with an emphatic call for a new regional "strategic relationship" to "allow us to retake control of our own destiny and build our own future."
 President-elect Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is making his first working trip outside Brazil since winning a landslide victory in late October. Mr. da Silva, of the leftist Workers Party, said he also favored the creation of a common regional currency and parliament. 
 "We are seeking true integration, following the example of the European Union," he declared at a joint appearance here with the president of Argentina, Eduardo Duhalde. 
Mr. da Silva, a former factory worker and labor leader who takes office on Jan. 1, is scheduled to meet with President Bush in Washington next week. But by stopping first in Argentina and Chile, where he will meet with President Ricardo Lagos on Tuesday, he is signaling that his government's top priority will be to bolster the troubled regional trade group known as Mercosur.
"Our first visit should be understood as an expression of the will of the future government of Brazil to give a decisive impetus to the reconstruction of Mercosur together with our partners in the region," Mr. da Silva said. He urged other member nations to help him "deepen a common foreign policy," which he said would be "essential for negotiations" with the United States and Europe.
Mercosur, with joint production of over $1 trillion and a combined population of 250 million, is the world's third-largest trade group, but it has been hurt by recent economic crises in the region. Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay founded Mercosur, sometimes called the South American Common Market, in 1991 and are full members, while Bolivia and Chile joined later and are associate members.
During the recent presidential campaign in Brazil, Mr. da Silva repeatedly criticized the American proposal for a Free Trade Area of the Americas, saying it would lead to the "annexation" of Latin America by the United States. Since his victory, he has said Brazil will continue to negotiate with the United States, but has warned that his administration will take a much tougher stance than the current government, which he says is "submissive" to the United States.
Brazil, with the largest economy in Latin America, is scheduled to become co-president of the free trade negotiating commission during the final two years of talks. On his way back from Washington next week, he will also stop in Mexico to meet with President Vicente Fox to discuss ways to "consolidate strategic links," the Mexican Foreign Ministry announced today.
Mr. da Silva's triumph in Brazil, Latin America's largest country, has reinvigorated the left throughout the region, and he clearly has ambitions to become a spokesman for all of Latin America. That was evident in remarks today in which he criticized the so-called Washington consensus in the region during the 1990's, saying it had brought suffering rather than prosperity.
"How many times over the last two decades have we seen our economies run aground?" Mr. da Silva said during his joint appearance with Mr. Duhalde today. "To overcome the crises, we've become dependent on international organizations and put ourselves at the mercy of speculators who many times don't even know where our countries are."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, left, with Argentina's leader, Eduardo Duhalde. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) 

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%) ROHTER, LARRY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DA SILVA, LUIZ INACIO LULA; DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ARGENTINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CHILE (94%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) BRAZIL; ARGENTINA; CHILE

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



98 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Momentum on the Energy Bill 

BYLINE:  By Bob Kerrey; Bob Kerrey, a former United States senator, is president of New School University.

 BODY:
Following nearly a year of heated debate over polar bears, caribou and S.U.V.'s, a divided Congress decided to put its energy bill on hold late last month. It did so even after such politically charged issues as oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and increases in automobile mileage standards were taken off the table. Now that Republicans will control the new Congress, what will they do about energy, and how will the Democrats respond?
 If Senator Pete V. Domenici, the Republican from New Mexico who will take over as Energy Committee chairman, decides to load up a new energy bill with these same contentious issues, the Democrats will resist, as they did this year. But if he has the foresight to reintroduce the compromise bill reached by the last Congress, Democrats should put their objections aside and support it. 
 Why? Because this bill will help the economy and boost solid, environmentally sound energy policies.
The most important issue in America today is jobs, and this bill will help the private sector create lots of them. In fact, it represents one of the best economic stimulus packages the new Congress is likely to pass.
By clarifying arcane rules concerning the electricity industry and repealing outdated Depression-era laws, the bill will encourage more investment in energy. Indeed, our tentative economic recovery depends on secure, sustainable and affordable energy. The bill would advance all those goals.
Second, the bill can bring Americans important benefits in the form of safer, more reliable energy. It would encourage the development of "green" or renewable resources -- wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and small-scale hydroelectric, for example -- which today generate less than 2 percent of our nation's electricity. The other 98 percent comes from traditional sources like fossil fuels, nuclear energy and large-scale hydro projects, which carry far heavier environmental burdens.
We all know that renewable energy resources are mostly pollution-free. But this isn't their only virtue. They are by definition domestically based, and for this reason contribute to our energy security. They provide fuel diversity and price stability. After all, the fuel -- the wind, the sun, heat from the core of the earth -- costs nothing. And they provide jobs. In fact, according to a study released last summer by the California Public Interest Research Group, renewable energy plants create four times the number of jobs -- in construction, operation and maintenance -- as traditional plants.
While renewables have made impressive progress in closing the price gap with fossil fuels, they remain more expensive because they have greater up-front construction costs or are necessarily located in remote areas. The pricing of renewables, however, includes no adjustment for the social benefits of these emissions-free energy sources. 
The energy bill as currently written would change all that. It would also spur investment by providing a production tax credit for renewable electricity sources. It would also direct the federal government, the largest single purchaser of electricity in the world, to buy 10 percent of its power from renewable resources. 
These measures would provide a huge boost for technology development, reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollution and help diversify our energy supply. With the bill, wind energy alone could provide thousands of new jobs by 2020, many of them here in New York State and the Northeast.
A report issued by the government's Energy Information Agency showed that by helping to reduce our growing dependence on natural gas, the bill's provisions would pay for themselves by holding down consumer gas prices. In addition, renewables would reduce our need to import more oil from the Middle East.
Is the bill a perfect piece of legislation? No, but it is the best opportunity we've ever had to jump-start production of renewable energy -- and it's a sound way to help our economy. An energy bill will remain a top priority for the administration and Congress next year. Rather than starting over from square one, Congress should resurrect the good work it's already done. Fights over polar bears, caribou, and the Arctic can all be voted on separately. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); MAMMALS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); BIOMASS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); WIND ENERGY (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (73%) KERREY, BOB; DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); EARTH (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



99 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Schedule for a Downtown Renaissance 

 BODY:
People who have been getting anxious about the slow progress in rebuilding Lower Manhattan should be heartened by new signs of energy. Louis Tomson, president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, laid out an ambitious new schedule yesterday that would push ahead faster with subways and other infrastructure work that is critical for the revival of Manhattan's downtown. 
The emotion-laden process of planning for a memorial at ground zero would be given a far more deliberative timetable.
 The sudden sense of focus and sensible division between the memorial and other more practical issues may indicate that Gov. George Pataki has finally begun to try moving things forward. If so, it's Mayor Michael Bloomberg's turn next. The mayor is said to want to stress housing development in the downtown area. But whatever his views, they should be outlined clearly, and quickly. 
 On Dec. 18 a new round of proposals for rebuilding ground zero will be submitted by some of the world's best architects. These seven new plans should be vastly better than the six that were presented last July, when public opposition saved the city from the ordinary. This time it could be more difficult for New Yorkers to agree, but voices beyond public officials or private developers still need to be heard.
While the public eyes the new plans, the corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey have agreed to evaluate these designs in more mundane ways, assessing costs and impact on local traffic, among other matters. Mr. Tomson says that the authority and the corporation, which have been at odds, will come up with a final land use plan by February. It is not an unrealistic deadline, even for agencies engaged in something Mr. Tomson diplomatically labels "thoughtful debates." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HIJACKING (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); AIRLINES (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; EDITORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (68%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



100 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Strike, Intended to Push Leader, May Continue 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
A general strike that closed factories and shops today in an effort to force President Hugo Chavez's embattled government into calling an early referendum on his rule will be extended through at least Tuesday, organizers said late in the day.
 The development threatened to inflame a tense standoff between Mr. Chavez and an increasingly intractable opposition that includes business leaders, politicians and labor leaders who are determined to force him from office. The extension of a similar general strike in April turned into a week of protests that ended in violence, leading to the temporary removal of Mr. Chavez from power. 
 In announcing that the strike will continue, Carlos Ortega, president of the country's largest labor federation, would not say how long it would last. But others in the Democratic Coordinator, an umbrella organization of anti-Chavez groups, said privately that organizers were considering continuing the strike through Wednesday.
The strike today, though it appeared to have mixed results, also threatened to complicate talks between the sides being mediated by Cesar Gaviria, general secretary of the Organization of American States.
The negotiations have strong support from the United States and the rest of Latin America, where officials worry that the increasing political turbulence here could degenerate into violence. 
For the United States, that could mean a disruption in oil supplies, since Venezuela is one of the world's largest oil exporters. World oil prices rose throughout the day, with United States crude futures in New York up 35 cents, to $27.24 per barrel.
Mr. Chavez's opponents said today's strike -- the fourth by antigovernment groups since last December -- had an 80 percent compliance rate. But a tour of this city of five million showed that while most businesses were closed in affluent neighborhoods, they were mostly open in the poor districts, where Mr. Chavez draws much of his support. 
The stark differences underscored the deep class conflict in this country of 25 million people. The working poor continue to hail their leader for having deposed an old, corrupt order, while increasingly antagonized middle and upper classes see Mr. Chavez as a dangerous demagogue taking their country on a path to ruin.
"The oligarchy never did anything for the people, and so they were thrown out in a popular vote," said Marco Ueda, 49, a sidewalk vendor in the city's poor west end. "The opposition is just hurting the country, continuously, so for me coming here and opening is a rejection of their strike." 
But to Carlos Fernandez, the president of the country's largest business group, the strike was a clear necessity to pressure what he called a stubborn, nondemocratic government into agreeing to a nonbinding referendum on Mr. Chavez's rule. Such a referendum would badly embarrass the government, Mr. Fernandez asserted, forcing Mr. Chavez to resign.
"What is the problem, since the president says the majority supports him?" Mr. Fernandez said in an interview. "The consultative referendum would say it all. He would have to accept it." 
Mr. Chavez has rejected the idea of an early referendum, saying the opposition can wait for a binding one in August, as allowed by the Constitution. The Supreme Court appeared to agree last week, ruling that a decision by the National Electoral Council to hold a referendum on Feb. 2 was unconstitutional.
Mr. Gaviria played down the problems, saying in an interview that both the opposition and the government told him they would resume talks once the general strike ended. 
Mr. Gaviria said both sides were close to resolving important issues like the government's takeover of the Caracas police force and use of troops to maintain order in the city. He said the referendum was the main sticking point that the two sides appeared predisposed to negotiate.
"I would not say the two sides are more radicalized," he said. "There is a strike, but I do not see an increasing gap between the government and the opposition and I do not see, at least immediately, a total confrontation."
Both sides today tried to manage their supporters for maximum benefit. Mr. Chavez's government convened a huge, government-sponsored bazaar in downtown Caracas, drawing tens of thousands of followers, as well as grateful shoppers searching for Christmas bargains.
Some shopkeepers also said they opened because they feared that government supporters would vandalize their shops if they did not, as had happened in the past. 
"Automatically, you open because of fear," said Elias Kevork, 65, who has run a small store for 40 years. "I saw motorcycles with Chavez folks come by, jotting down who was open, who was closed." 
The opposition movement also tried to put a positive spin on the day's events. The news networks, harshly anti-Chavez, presented a parade of anti-Chavez leaders, with little feedback from the government or its supporters.
In and around Altamira, a plaza where government opponents gather daily, anti-Chavez advocates pressed a handful of shopkeepers who opened today to close, said a Western diplomat with offices nearby.
Many merchants refused to allow themselves to be immersed in the roiling political waters, saying they opened today simply because it was the lucrative Christmas season. For them, it was important to make some sales to offset a dismal year, in which the economy has shrunk by 6.4 percent in the first three quarters.
"We waited all year for this month to sell, and unfortunately the strike comes just at this time," said Abdula Chagra, who runs a shoe store in the poor Petare district. "We had to open." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); RIOTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); STRIKES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (70%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); POOR POPULATION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); FUTURES (65%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; STRIKES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFERENDUMS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%) FORERO, JUAN; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



101 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Signs Property Tax Increase Into Law 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed legislation yesterday raising New York City's property tax rates for the first time in more than a decade, during an unusual early-morning bill signing and public hearing at City Hall.
 No one testified for or against the 18.5 percent property tax rate increase -- which is expected to raise an extra $837 million this year for the city -- at the public hearing. Some tax opponents said that nobody testified because the hearing was held so early in the morning: at 7:30 a.m. on the Monday after the Thanksgiving weekend. 
 Aides to Mr. Bloomberg offered two reasons for the early hour. They said that the hearing had to be held early so that the new law could be taken to Albany and registered with the secretary of state as quickly as possible, to allow the city's January tax bills to be sent out. And they said that the mayor had a busy schedule yesterday. 
Mayor Bloomberg said that the absence of people testifying about the bill suggested that most New Yorkers understood that the city needed to take tough steps to close a budget gap that had grown to $1 billion this year and a projected $6.4 billion next year. 
"Well, there was nobody that came this morning and wanted to testify," he said later in the day. "I think that that says that most people understand. The fact of the matter is we have a national recession, we have a law that requires us to balance the budget. The tax revenues weren't there."
The effects of the property tax increase will depend on where people live. People living in an average single-family home will see their tax bills rise to $2,024 from $1,853; people in an average co-op will see their bills go to $2,931 from $2,683; people in condominiums will see an average rise to $4,939 from $4,521. The increases will be larger next year, when they will be in effect for a full fiscal year instead of half a year. 
People only occasionally comment at the public hearings that precede bill signings. But members of several industry and civic groups said that they thought the timing of yesterday's signing discouraged testimony on the tax increase. 
"Wasn't that in part the purpose of having it at 7:30 in the first place, not to have people comment?" asked John Doyle, the vice president for government affairs at the Real Estate Board of New York, a trade organization that fought the increase.
But there were a number of people present to watch the signing of a second bill updating the city's electrical code, although none testified about it.
Mr. Doyle was actually the only person in the city to testify officially against the increase. When the City Council approved the increase on Nov. 25, after giving the public only a few hours' warning of when they planned to do so, its Finance Committee heard testimony from just eight people: Mr. Doyle opposed the increase, while seven advocates for children and other groups whose services were being protected from budget cuts testified in favor of it. The Council approved the increase by a vote of 41 to 6.
Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said that they scheduled the bill signing for 7:30 a.m. yesterday for two reasons. They said that by law, the mayor must wait several days after the Council passes a bill before signing it into law. And they said that while they could have technically held the bill-signing ceremony on Sunday, they thought it would have been even less accessible to the public during the holiday weekend. 
So they held it at 7:30 a.m. because it fit the mayor's schedule and would allow them to get the bill to Albany quickly. The bill, which was sent to Albany in the care of a city official via an Amtrak train that left New York City at nearly noon, was not registered at the secretary of state's office until 2:45 p.m. Aides said that it took the city's Law Department more than two hours to process the bill before its journey to the capital.
By yesterday afternoon the higher tax bills were provided to mortgage servicing companies, which handle the bills for about 450,000 homeowners.
Beginning today, the bills will be mailed to people who pay their property taxes twice a year, whose bills are due Jan. 1, and then to those who pay quarterly, whose bills are due on Jan. 15. The bills will be sent with a note about "an 18.5 percent increase in your taxes effective January 1, 2003, which is needed to help close the city's budget gap." 
It was an unusual bill signing. The mayor and several of his top deputies sipped from coffee cups throughout the ceremony. The councilman who had introduced the bill at the request of the mayor, David I. Weprin, chairman of the Finance Committee, was absent. Speaker Gifford Miller and several other councilmen were present, though.
Mayor Bloomberg described the tax bill last week as "probably the largest property tax increase in the history of the city." After he signed it into law, taking care to use several ballpoint pens, he wondered whether to follow through on the City Hall tradition of passing the pens out to colleagues.
"I'm not sure anybody wants one of these pens," he said, giving them to the council members present. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); THANKSGIVING (55%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



102 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Industry Seeking Rewards From G.O.P.-Led Congress 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, officials of the American Petroleum Institute met in Denver to discuss their chief goal for the new Congress: an energy bill that would open up public lands in the Rocky Mountain West to further oil and gas exploration.
 At that meeting, the oil executives decided among other things to undertake a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign to convince voters in five Western states that new exploration in the Rockies would bolster their local economies while inflicting minimal damage on the environment. The campaign is timed to start early in the new year, just as Congress convenes with Republicans in control of both houses and eager to take up an energy bill. 
 Around the country, businesses and industries that donated millions of dollars to elect Republicans are mapping out strategies to take advantage of the party's sweep in Washington. The White House was already sympathetic to business concerns, but with all of Congress now under Republican control, industry's expectations are higher. 
On Tuesday, for example, several power industry representatives are meeting here under the banner of the Edison Electric Institute, the lobby for electric utilities, to discuss the new lay of the land and what they may be able to achieve.
A checklist of goals for the "extractive" industries -- oil, gas, mining and timber -- begins with a comprehensive energy bill. Provisions pushed by those industries and others would include $34 billion in tax incentives for an array of projects: to promote exploration and expansion, develop new technologies, increase the use of ethanol in gasoline, build a natural-gas pipeline in Alaska and limit the liability of the nuclear power industry in case of catastrophic accidents.
Those industries are also seeking broad regulatory relief. For example, Jack Gerard, president of the National Mining Association, which represents coal and mineral interests, said his group wanted the process of acquiring permits for exploration on public lands to be streamlined. At present, Mr. Gerard said, it can take a company 10 years after finding a mineral to turn the location into an operating mine. That, he said, has forced many mining operations out of the country.
Common to the relief that all industries seek is a loosening of various regulations that they say hinder growth in the name of protecting air, water, endangered species and wetlands. The new Republican control of the two Senate committees that deal with environmental matters -- Environment and Public Works, and Energy and Natural Resources -- is sure to bring a more sympathetic hearing for that quest than it received under the Democrats.
William L. Kovacs, vice president for environment, technology and regulatory affairs at the United States Chamber of Commerce, predicted that the Republican control would mean first the adoption of President Bush's energy policy, including oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
"There's no one who can hold things up," Mr. Kovacs said. "The Democrats have lost their biggest weapons to stop Bush: oversight and subpoena authority." 
Environmentalists are sounding the alarm. "We're really in big trouble," said one, Senator James M. Jeffords. Mr. Jeffords, a Vermont independent, is losing the chairmanship of the Environment and Public Works Committee, and as a result has had to drop subpoenas he was preparing for documents concerning the administration's recent easing of clean-air regulations on aging industrial plants.
Phil Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, said industry was eager to take advantage of this period of Republican control.
"The president raised $140 million in corporate funds," Mr. Clapp said, "and he has a lot of debts to pay to campaign contributors. A lot of those debts will be in the form of weakening environmental regulations."
Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman, discussed the administration's approach in conciliatory terms. "The president believes economic growth and environmental protection can go hand in hand," Mr. McClellan said, "and it doesn't have to be a zero-sum game."
Privately, White House officials say they realize that the newly strengthened Republicans in Congress and their business allies may be inclined to overreach. While the White House shares industry's regulatory philosophy and many of its specific goals, officials there say moves perceived as aggressively anti-environmental might make the president appear to be a captive of business. That could hurt him when he seeks re-election in 2004.
In an effort to skirt confrontation, the administration has often preferred the quieter route of regulatory rather than legislative change.
Already in this lull between the end of the 107th Congress and the beginning of the 108th on Jan. 7, the White House has made two important changes through administrative rule-making, both of which pleased the industries involved. One allows aging coal-fired plants and other factories to modernize without necessarily having to install expensive antipollution devices. The other gives local managers more discretion to approve logging and other commercial activities in the nation's 155 national forests.
The new Republican chairmen overseeing environmental matters in the Senate are vigorous advocates of business interests and are set to reverse the priorities of the current chairmen.
Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, a former real estate developer, will lead Environment and Public Works. Mr. Inhofe, an advocate for oil and gas interests, is skeptical of global warming, is hostile to the Environmental Protection Agency (which he has called a "Gestapo bureaucracy") and once compared Carol M. Browner, who headed the agency under President Bill Clinton, to Tokyo Rose.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Inhofe said he was not giving interviews for now. But in a brief statement issued in response to a reporter's query, the senator wrote that his immediate priority was to improve the nation's infrastructure and that he would try to direct money to highway and water projects.
He also said he wanted to "examine how current environmental laws are enforced and implemented." Such language suggests to environmentalists that Mr. Inhofe will join the administration's efforts to weaken the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, which requires environmental impact statements for many industrial activities and is regarded by business as burdensome.
Mr. Inhofe also said he wanted to "create fiscally responsible policies that are based on sound science and cost-benefit analyses." Environmentalists say this is code for not spending money on environmental projects. Mr. Inhofe was the only senator to vote in 2000 against a $7.8 billion project to restore the Everglades, legislation that he likened to throwing money out the window.
As for the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, one New Mexican, Senator Pete V. Domenici, will assume the leadership from another, Senator Jeff Bingaman. Mr. Domenici is perhaps the Senate's most vigorous proponent of nuclear power and, as a new shepherd for any energy bill, will have priorities that include building support for that industry.
But for all the change the new chairmen represent, it is not clear that industry will accomplish its goals.
Angela Logomasini, director of risk and environmental policy at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which promotes free-market solutions to economic and environmental problems, said that while the change in control signaled "a slight shift to the right," the Republicans still did not have enough votes to push through their agenda on their own.
Other Republicans on Senator Inhofe's committee, including Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, John W. Warner of Virginia and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, often vote with Democrats on environmental matters. In fact, Mr. Chafee so often sides with Democrats on those issues that White House officials worry they could drive him out of the Republican Party if they are not careful.
Senator Inhofe is clearly mindful of Mr. Chafee's standing. In his written statement to a reporter, Mr. Inhofe said one priority was the Chafee Underground Storage Tank Bill, which would provide money to clean up leaks at toxic waste sites.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 3 about efforts by the energy industry to push its priorities through the incoming Congress referred incorrectly to action taken by the American Petroleum Institute during a recent meeting in Denver. The group discussed a plan for a public education campaign on oil exploration in the Rockies, but did not formally vote on it.




GRAPHIC: Photo: James M. Inhofe, Senate Environment and Public Works chairman. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); GASOLINE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); FUEL ADDITIVES (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); COAL MINING (70%); WETLANDS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (67%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (65%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (64%); ETHANOL (64%); ALCOHOLS (64%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (63%); WILDLIFE (60%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; MINES AND MINING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; ELECTIONS; ENVIRONMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIM INHOFE (73%) SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); INHOFE, JAMES M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) ROCKY MOUNTAINS (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



103 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 830 words

PERSON: Katherine Oliver 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Selling the Celluloid City, With Style

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
WHEN the out-of-the-blue phone call came to Katherine Oliver in London last March, she was supervising 600 people in 25 cities with a budget in the hundreds of millions. Her title? Managing director of global broadcasting operations for Bloomberg L.P.
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's deputy for economic development, was on the line. He made her an offer she could easily have refused: become commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting, with its quaint $1 million budget, a staff of 17, and a salary line -- $140,000 -- that was a paltry fraction of her London take-home. 
 "It was a surprise," Ms. Oliver recalled, and although it took some rumination, she said yes. But why? "Two things: Mike Bloomberg. New York City." She laughed. "People thought I was absolutely nuts." 
The office faces dire challenges, as New York City's film workers listen anxiously for the giant sucking sound of jobs departing for Canada. Right now, there is the outrage of "Rudy!" the unauthorized biography of Rudolph W. Giuliani for -- yes -- the USA Network, being shot in -- yes -- Montreal.
The office was founded in 1966 to cut through city red tape for filmmakers and to end the extortionate demands that were eating producers alive and driving them from the city.
The office zapped the graft and became an institution, but Ms. Oliver did not quite comprehend what she was getting into. Dropped like an astronaut from the tech-forward Bloomberg universe (pager, mobile, BlackBerry), she touched down in a time warp.
The antique computers at the office were little used, the Paleozoic telephone system discouraged connection with humans, electric typewriters were employed for office communications, and permit seekers were required to visit the office to fill out forms in quintuplicate.
Worse, Ms. Oliver, a former diva of cable television, arrived in a city office that was not equipped with cable. 
Since Ms. Oliver arrived Aug. 1, she has been closing in on the 21st century. "I'm the new kid on the block," she said, "and I can ask for things." Already there is a new phone system, and 12 personal computers for the staff. The old hand-written master calendar has been obsolesced by Excel spreadsheet grids. And within 30 days of Ms. Oliver's arrival, producers were able to seek permits online. 
The cable, she's still working on. "My mission," she said, "is to promote New York City on a global basis as a location and a viable place to work. This can help -- because movies are big advertisements for New York City."
For now, industry veterans are thumbs up. "She's got a lot of fresh ideas, and she has really reached out to people," said Jane Rosenthal, a producer of "Analyze That," shot in New York City last spring. "And she has the ear of the mayor."
It is that mayor who has defined her mission and who has given her some very public support. "Kathy has the drive and creativity to take this industry in our city to another level," Mayor Bloomberg announced the other night to 400 film, theater and television industry professionals at a reception. 
Ms. Oliver presided over the event in an electric Navy blue pinstripe suit by Ozwald Boateng, the Savile Row-trained tailor, accessorized with a peacock blue Thai silk blouse and Manolo Blahniks. During her English odyssey, The Times of London tsk-tsked at Ms. Oliver's "outre, theatrical dress."
Sitting in her office, Ms. Oliver shrugged. "In the media business," she said, "the things you wear can be a little funky." 
Funky, perhaps, for a 39-year-old from St. Anselm's parish in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Her nickname is "K.O." (right, the initials) and knocking herself out is the M.O.
After stints as a radio news writer and reporter, she became an on-air reporter for the cable networks FNN and CNBC. She first encountered Mr. Bloomberg 11 years ago when he hired her as an announcer, making her one of the team of 11 that created Bloomberg Radio in 1992. Soon she anchored, and produced, Mr. Bloomberg's first 15-minute television show, then helped start his cable channel in 1994. 
In 1996, Mr. Bloomberg made her his ambassador to London to start up the company's European, Asian and South American services. Ms. Oliver knows pretty much everything there is to know about being a woman manager in Latin countries. "They would want to talk to the man of the office, and then Mike would tell them simply that I was the man of the office," she recalled. 
"Work has been a big part of my life," she said, adding that she is not too busy to be dating.
MS. OLIVER can't bring back "Rudy!," but she has her eye not only on Canada but also on "Australia, New Zealand and South Africa," she said, "where they speak English and are making attractive offers." 
How can the city stay competitive? "In the end, New York is its own greatest asset," she said, "the skyline, the diversity of the neighborhoods, and the sheer energy of the people. You can't measure these things. But they're translated into film." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: KATHERINE OLIVER (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); MAYORS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); EXTORTION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%) MOTION PICTURES; LABOR 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (85%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FILM, THEATER AND BROADCASTING, OFFICE OF (NYC) 

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (53%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); RUDY GIULIANI (71%) COLLINS, GLENN; OLIVER, KATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%) NEW YORK CITY; CANADA

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002 



104 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1921 words

HEADLINE: A Perfectionist Does It His Way 

BYLINE:  By ALEX WITCHEL 

 BODY:
"HI, I'm putting my belt on!"
 It was 11 a.m. when I arrived at Jeffrey Steingarten's loft in the Flatiron district to find that he was not dressed and that his bed was not made. I noticed this because his bed is only a few feet from the kitchen that takes up most of the place. 
 As he slammed the Murphy bed up into the wall and started blasting opera, his assistant, Elizabeth Alsop, offered me a seat at the kitchen table where someone -- who could it be? -- had left a copy of a favorable USA Today review of his new book, "It Must Have Been Something I Ate: The Return of the Man Who Ate Everything" (Alfred A. Knopf). It is a volume of his collected food essays from Vogue, where he has written since 1989. His first collection, "The Man Who Ate Everything," was a New York Times best seller in its paperback edition, and last spring, he won a National Magazine Award for some of the essays in the new book. Mr. Steingarten can write, he just can't tell time. 
He emerged wearing a navy blazer, gray flannels and loafers, dressed as the lawyer he was before Vogue -- Harvard College 1965 (where he wrote for the Lampoon) and Harvard Law School 1968. The kitchen was crammed with piles of every sort, from flour bins to rotisseries one on top of the next, and to get to the counter he inched around what looked like a pirate's stash: dusty bottles of port, rum and whiskey lined 12 deep along the walls. He had spent the week practicing his form on the dish that was to be our lunch, agnolotti al plin, a miniature filled pasta that's pinched around the edges. He had recently been in Turin, Italy, for a Slow Food convention, where he spent hours with Luigi Caputo of the restaurant Balbo, learning how to pinch like a pro.
Perfecting recipes and cooking techniques in the most obsessive ways possible is pretty much Mr. Steingarten's job description. He goes somewhere in the world, watches someone do something, then comes home and tries it 50 different ways himself. 
He augments his findings with some of the most exhaustive research available outside of NASA, then writes up the tale, whether it is how he arranged a delivery of rendered horse fat from Vienna so he could make the perfect French fry, or how he chased down a wild bluefin tuna in the middle of winter for the thrill of the hunt and the prize of eating premium toro on the spot. Of that adventure he wrote: "What arbitrary and destructive force was pulling me ineluctably toward my star-crossed encounter with this monstrous ruler of the frozen deep? I believe it was the editor in chief of Vogue."
At this particular moment, giving the completely false impression that he intended to make up for lost time and get to work, Mr. Steingarten started rolling pasta, and his elegant navy blazer was soon lashed with flour. Why on earth was he dressed that way to cook? "I find it's more slimming," he said, squeezing dots of filling in a straight line along the edge of the pasta sheet. "Men have it much worse than females. Throughout history there have been great paintings and sculptures of chubby women. But have you ever seen a statue of a fat man? Absolutely not."
He rolled the pasta forward, pinched it and ran a pastry wheel next to the line of little lumps, making what looked like a long ruffle. "Here's the secret, O.K.?" he said. "It's important to force the air out when you pinch it. You don't want them falling apart or getting bloated in the water." He said something else I couldn't hear with the music still blasting. "You're going to have to turn that off," I said, which elicited a frown from the author. "I can turn it off," Ms. Alsop offered, which prompted Mr. Steingarten to thunder, "No! No one touches my hi-fi."
In the ensuing silence, Mr. Steingarten determined he was in need of a drink. So, at 11:30 he opened a $400 bottle of '89 Louis Latour Montrachet, and explained that once the agnolotti were cooked and dressed with herb-infused butter and a sprinkling of Parmesan, he would subject them to three variations before serving: one dish would be adorned with shaved white truffles, another with truffle oil, another with truffle flour.
As he spoke the phone rang and a plaintive voice from Vogue inquired on the machine about Mr. Steingarten's expense report, a call Ms. Alsop ran to take. He shrugged. "I had euros and pounds on one form; it really flummoxed them," he said, clearly distracted by his wineglass. "I'm afraid it's corked," he said sadly. "Montrachet is so good and this is so not good." He sighed deeply. "It just shows, Gather ye rosebuds."
Good advice. One hour down, we might at least attempt an interview. I could ask questions. He could even answer them instead of tracking an e-Bay bid for still another rotisserie. He reluctantly sat at the table, where he tried opening a bottle of red this time, an '82 St. Julien, Chateau Ducru-Beaucaillou. The cork would not budge and he took a sharp knife to it, easing it out of the bottle. Since I wasn't drinking, he kindly gave me an excellent piece of candied orange peel from Fauchon and fresh dates that were quite sublime. I asked about his family.
"Let me get a cigar," he said, up again. "My grandfather was a grocer on the Lower East Side; not a very successful grocer. He got in trouble at one point for watering milk. We never talked about it." Mr. Steingarten's father was a lawyer, and he and his wife raised their son and daughter, Lois, in Hewlett Neck, N.Y. Mr. Steingarten married Caron Smith in 1977, and in 1998 she took a job at the San Diego Museum of Art, where she is senior curator of Asian art, so their marriage is now bicoastal. When I asked how that was working out, he proclaimed, "When I'm not there, Caron eats horribly."
So much for family history. "Can't we talk about food?" Mr. Steingarten asked dolefully. During law school (his roommate was Dr. Andrew Weil, the holistic health guru) he would come home from property class, watch Julia Child on WGBH and write her recipes on his yellow legal pads. Then he would cook. But not like other people. This is a man who in the last 10 years alone has made at least one potato gratin a week, every week of every year, drawing on a collection of 200 recipes. He dry-aged a 30-pound cross-section of beef in his refrigerator, then butchered and cooked it himself -- except for the parts that had rotted.
His first assignment for Anna Wintour, whom he had met through friends, was in 1988 when she was editing HG, an incarnation of House & Garden. Mr. Steingarten was to write 500 to 800 words on whether fish could really be cooked in a microwave oven. After sampling 12 microwave ovens, he turned in a piece 4,200 words long -- and she printed it. When Ms. Wintour went to Vogue the following year, he went with her.
BUT what about the 20 years between law school and food writing? He worked for Kevin White, the mayor of Boston, doing research on poverty law and legal services for the poor. He moved to New York in 1971 and continued that work, receiving several foundation grants to research the legal rights of the mentally ill. He wrote the occasional piece for Harper's and Atlantic Monthly on politics or economics, but it was not until Ms. Wintour that he found his muse. That she happens to be the body double for Olive Oyl is the height of improbability, but it's his good fortune that she apparently likes reading about food more than she likes eating it. Mr. Steingarten has been known to say that when his weight is up, Ms. Wintour is less inclined to take his calls.
He smiled. "There's no doubt she wants me to go on the Atkins diet," he said. "I've actually spent a third of the time on it during the last 30 years, and a third on high carbs. Look, if there was a diet that worked, no one would be fat."
Ms. Wintour, speaking briskly by phone, said: "I have great respect for Jeffrey. He is obsessive and a perfectionist and that's what makes him so special. He's so completely thorough in his research, he comes at it from such an original angle." A hint of a smile entered her voice. "We did get into a lot of trouble with that horse fat piece; we had an avalanche of letters about that one. But I can tell you, no one in the food world buys Vogue for the fashion, they buy it for Jeffrey."
One of Mr. Steingarten's pet themes is an utter lack of patience with people who are convinced they have food allergies. Lactose intolerance in particular irritates him, as does the government's squeamishness about allowing the import of unpasteurized cheeses. He says he gets food poisoning only once every two years or so, something of a record for someone who travels the world eating things like deep-fried bamboo worms, roasted wasp larvae and mashed pig's brains.
And speaking of food, such as it is, are we ever going to eat? 
Ms. Alsop presented two sides of smoked salmon from a tour of Brooklyn smokehouses Mr. Steingarten had just taken with Mark Russ Federman, the owner of the esteemed appetizing store, Russ & Daughters. Ms. Alsop placed two cookie sheets in front of him, one covered with wild salmon, the other with farmed salmon. He sliced some of each and quickly determined that the wild one was spectacular, the farmed less so. But one taste was not enough. He sat, fork in hand, and kept on eating.
I looked at my watch. Three hours and 15 minutes and the cooking had yet to begin. It seemed perfectly clear that there was to be no interview. We might at least have a meal.
Mr. Steingarten gathered himself slowly, turned toward the stove and tripped over some bottles. "That's what happens when you're being rushed," he said, in an injured tone.
Rushed? Was he joking?
"I looked forward to today not just because of the article, but because you and I would be playing," he said quietly, looking as if someone had just pushed him into his locker. 
Oh. I looked at his face, at the jumble surrounding him -- cans and cans of boudin noir, Illy coffee, two bottles of Chambord side by side (whatever for?) and I put down my pad. I picked up a perfect piece of Parmesan from DiPalo's and let go. "You know Jeffrey, you're right," I said. "Let's do it your way."
He smiled like the sun and once the specter of pesky questions disappeared, he couldn't have been happier, or speedier, even though he made Ms. Alsop measure the servings of the agnolotti -- three ounces, to approximate those served at Balbo.
To say the pasta was quite firm was a polite way of saying it was undercooked. The white truffles, which he shaved with abandon, disappointed him. "They have a very good aroma, but I think their taste is weak," he said. The version with truffle oil was ghastly, but the version with truffle flour was tasty, indeed.
Then he made espresso and opened boxes labeled Domori. Speaking of the master pastry chef, he said, "Pierre Herme says it's perhaps the best chocolate he's ever had." We tasted it dark and light, along with Gianduja, a Piedmontese hazelnut chocolate. "Rich, soft, slightly milky," Mr. Steingarten said, rolling it, and the words, around in his mouth.
Again, I looked at my watch. Four and a half hours later, it was getting close to dinnertime. "Thank you for letting me come and play," I said, and we laughed together, no hard feelings.
"But one more thing," I said, turning back toward the table. "I feel bad about the chocolate because I tasted it in little bites." I had broken up at least a half-dozen pieces, which now littered the table on their bits of foil.
"That doesn't matter," Mr. Steingarten said comfortably, following my gaze. "I'll eat it all."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CHEF WHITES? -- Jeffrey Steingarten in navy. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. F1); JUST A PINCH -- Jeffrey Steingarten prepares agnolotti al plin, left, in his apartment. Below, same pasta with white truffles. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. F13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (85%); RESTAURANTS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); BESTSELLERS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (63%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; FOOD 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; STEINGARTEN, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



105 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Officials Are Trying To Lower the Yen With Talk 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Japanese financial officials are once again talking down the yen, but their motives this time extend beyond trying to increase exports.
 Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said on Sunday that based on the weakness of Japan's economy, the dollar should trade at 150 to 160 yen, about 20 percent below its current level. The yen promptly notched its biggest one-day decline in more than two months on Monday and has failed to recoup its losses. It also fell against the euro. 
 It traded near 124.50 yen in Tokyo today, even after Mr. Shiokawa said the government would not actively sell yen to push down the value of the currency. 
In the past, remarks suggesting the government thought the yen was too strong would have signaled that the government was nervous about how the currency's value might inhibit Japanese exports, the main driver of the economy here. Recent figures show that shipments overseas are indeed flagging and that the economy will probably slow next year.
A weaker yen, whether driven lower by government pronouncements or economic fundamentals, would make Japanese products cheaper in overseas markets, a boon to companies like the Toyota Motor Corporation and the Sony Corporation, which earn the bulk of their profits in North America.
But policy makers are also battling persistent deflation, a widening budget gap and a bad-loan crisis that will probably require additional government support to banks.
It is unclear how much a bailout will cost, but with tax revenue falling and ratings agencies threatening to cut Japan's creditworthiness, the government must come up with more ways to finance its operations. One way is to get the central bank to print more money, which should lead to a weaker yen.
This, however, could create friction with other exporting countries in Asia and in America, where lawmakers are wary that companies are trying to dump goods. Just as important, the current Bank of Japan governor, Masaru Hayami, has resisted drastic steps to soften the currency and has even written books praising a strong yen. His policy board has consistently fended off calls to set an inflation target, buy foreign treasury bills or take other unconventional steps that might force the yen lower.
Mr. Hayami's term as governor, however, ends in March and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi must help pick a successor soon. In this light, Mr. Shiokawa's comments are a sign that the government may be looking for a more accommodating central bank chief. By making this clear now, rather than in several months, policy makers are signaling their intentions to investors and trading partners. 
"We have reached a turning point," said Chris Walker, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "People are waking up to two facts: Hayami will soon retire and the government will have to spend more."
Deliberately weakening a currency is not easily done. More than $1 trillion speeds through the foreign exchange markets every day, and traders must balance many factors when selling and buying. Economic recovery in the United States remains weak, for example, and the Federal Reserve's cut of half a percentage point in interest rates last month has reduced the return from some American financial assets.
Weakening the yen may also encourage other nations to push their currencies down, offsetting some of the competitive advantage Japanese companies might gain. 
Still, Japan could win support for its weak-yen strategy if it is seen as part of a broader policy to combat deflation and end the decade-long bad-loan crisis. American officials would be hard pressed to argue with this because they have repeatedly called on Japan to fix its debt-sodden financial system, Mr. Walker said.
Given the political implications and the difficulty of manipulating exchange rates, though, few analysts said they expected the dollar to rise to 150 or 160 yen soon. Rather, they said, Japan appears more interested in laying the groundwork for a weaker yen in the future.
"The key point is not the level, but the direction," said Marshall Gittler, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo. "Shiokawa and his colleagues are signaling loud and clear that they want a weaker yen. That's what investors should remember."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Weakening the Yen"Japanese officials are pushing for a weaker yen to strengthen the country's economy. Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar from January-November.(Scale is inverted.) (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEFLATION (77%); EURO (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNORS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (68%); SONY CORP (68%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (68%); TM (NYSE) (68%); 7203 (TSE) (68%); SON (LSE) (68%); SNE (NYSE) (68%); 6758 (TSE) (68%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: SHIOKAWA, MASAJURO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (96%); ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



106 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Pricing the Ballgame 

BYLINE:  By Robert H. Frank; Robert H. Frank is a professor of economics at Cornell's Johnson School of Management.

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The Mets' move last week to variable ticket pricing occurred because Shea Stadium is like a commercial airliner. When a 757 takes off from nearby LaGuardia with unfilled seats, something of value is lost forever: the airline loses the revenue, and passengers lose the chance to travel. When the Mets play before less than sellout crowds at Shea, both the team and its fans lose as well. 
 Airlines have long used sophisticated pricing methods to fill empty seats, and the Mets' move follows a similar logic. Last season, a given seat at Shea sold for the same price every day. That seat will now sell at four different prices, depending on when the game occurs and the popularity of the opposing team. Fans can catch the lowly Brewers on a May weekday for as little as $8, down from $12 last season. But to see Barry Bonds hit a home run on a July Saturday, they'll have to pay at least $16. 
 Economic theory's ideal pricing scheme is one that eliminates excess demand during peak periods while serving customers at cost during off-peak periods. By that standard, the Mets' move is a clear improvement. Of course, that fact hasn't prevented the inevitable complaints about higher prices for popular games. The real problem, however, is that the new formula doesn't go far enough. Saturday Yankees games in July will still sell out months in advance, and Monday Brewers games in May will still fill less than a third of Shea's seats.
The Mets are not unique in departing from the economist's ideal price structure. Why do so many hotels, restaurants and other businesses charge prices that are too low when they're busy and too high when they're not? Their concern is that aggressive peak-period pricing might court a customer backlash. Why go to a restaurant that charges double on Saturdays, angry customers might wonder, even though the meal costs no more to prepare than on other nights?
This question betrays a faulty understanding of cost. Although the raw ingredients cost no more on Saturdays, the cost of serving additional diners is still far greater than on other days; the restaurant would have to enlarge its facilities and buy more equipment to accommodate larger crowds. Additional Tuesday patrons, in contrast, can be served without spending an extra cent on such items. A similar logic applies to the Mets, who would need a bigger stadium and more parking to serve additional fans at sellouts.
Would larger price differentials be fair? Customers don't feel betrayed when grocers charge them three times as much for three pounds of beef as for one pound, since those who buy more obviously impose higher costs on the seller. By the same token, peak-period users of stadiums or restaurants should pay higher prices, because they too impose higher costs. But because the cost differences in these cases are less obvious, customers often regard price differentials as unfair. This perception is an illusion.
No strategy will fill more empty seats at Shea than for the team's new manager to guide the Mets to a winning season. By all means, let the quest to win continue. Meanwhile, the team and its fans will gain by having prices that track costs more closely. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%) BASEBALL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%) NEW YORK METS 

PERSON: FRANK, ROBERT H (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



107 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Candidates In South Korea Differ Sharply On the North 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
In their first debate as they entered the South Korean presidential campaign's final stretch, the two leading candidates advocated sharply different approaches toward North Korea tonight, and called for tighter regulations governing American troops here.
 With opinion polls suggesting the race is too close to call, the governing party candidate, Roh Moo Hyun, stoutly defended President Kim Dae Jung's so-called sunshine policy of engagement with North Korea, suggesting at one point that the only thing that needed changing was the policy's name. 
 Lee Hoi Chang, meanwhile, Mr. Roh's main conservative rival, relentlessly attacked Mr. Kim's approach to North Korea. Mr. Lee repeatedly alluded to recent revelations that North Korea had been secretly developing nuclear weapons and said that if he won on Dec. 19, he would make a clean break with recent policies that sought to obtain the cooperation of the impoverished North by providing economic aid. 
"I have a very definite policy on North Korea," said Mr. Lee, a former Supreme Court justice, suggesting that he would continue to send food and other goods to meet civilian needs. "I will stop money support," he added "because money can subsidize nuclear development. That is why we must stop it. This is also a part of an effort to make North Korea abandon nuclear weapons."
Both Mr. Lee and Mr. Roh, along with a third candidate who took part in the two-hour debate, Kwon Young Gil, said they would seek to renegotiate the Status of Forces Agreement, or SOFA, governing the legal rights and behavior of the 37,000 American troops stationed in South Korea.
Mr. Lee, the candidate of the conservative Grand National Party, narrowly lost to Mr. Kim in the last presidential election, five years ago. South Korean presidents are limited by the Constitution to one term. Opinion polls are banned by law in the final phase of the campaign, but the last published polls indicated that Mr. Roh had a narrow lead.
The American troop presence here has become the focus of an increasingly intense protest movement, which began last summer when two teenage girls were crushed to death by an American armored vehicle. The protests have accelerated since the acquittal late last month of the two army sergeants involved.
The servicemen's trials here, conducted in accordance with the Status of Forces Agreement, involved all-American juries, which has incensed many here, fueling calls to renogotiate the agreement.
With anti-American feeling rising, the leading presidential candidates have said South Korea should renegotiate the agreement. Today, President Kim added his voice to the calls. 
He noted that it was revised last year to bring it to the level of those pacts with Japan and Germany, "but with this incident as a lesson, the two sides must work more closely to improve SOFA further and develop the Korea-U.S. alliance in a future-orientated direction," Mr. Kim was quoted as telling his cabinet in the transcript released by his office.
Mr. Kim also took pains today to defend his country's alliance with the United States. "Constructive criticism of U.S. policies is permissible, but a tide of indiscriminate anti-American sentiment is of no benefit to the national interest," he said.
Mr. Roh, a political heir to Mr. Kim, with similar roots in center-left social activism, was even more assertive on the Status of Forces Agreement, and appeared to be trying to channel some of the public anger into his campaign. "As a presidential candidate, is it necessary or appropriate to sign on to a plea?" he said. "The SOFA agreement should be amended, although one thing is for sure: If I become president, I will definitely correct our chronic attitude of accepting" American demands "without criticism."
Throughout his presidency, Mr. Kim has been an ardent advocate of dialogue with North Korea, which won him the Nobel Peace Prize in 2000. His stance, though, has sometimes contributed to diplomatic tensions with the Bush administration, which has consistently taken a more skeptical approach to North Korea.
For weeks, Mr. Lee has attacked the sunshine policy, characterizing it as naive, and has tried to turn the news of North Korea's nuclear program into a liability for Mr. Roh. "We've had five years of the sunshine policy, but behind our backs, North Korea was working on nuclear weapons," Mr. Lee said. 
In reply, Mr. Roh said his views on the need for American troops had changed long ago, and he struggled to establish some credentials on national security issues. "After that I had some political experience and came to know better," he said. "I came to know that it is necessary for U.S. troops to stay in Korea. That was a mistake of my judgment." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); JURY TRIALS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); ACQUITTAL (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



108 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Jersey City; 
Building Warehouse Space on Speculation in a Frail Economy

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Construction has started on two sprawling warehouses on the Hudson River shoreline in Jersey City, even though the developer has no agreements yet with potential tenants. 
 "The site's location tipped the scale toward construction" despite a softening in the commercial market, said Jeffrey E. Kelter, president and chief executive of the Keystone Property Trust. The groundbreaking at the gritty 26-acre site in the southern reaches of Jersey City's riverfront was held last month. 
 The buildings, one with 182,000 square feet and the other with 343,000 square feet, are off Exit 14A of the New Jersey Turnpike, near the port installations in Newark and Elizabeth. The site is in both a state-designated urban enterprise zone and a federal-designated foreign trade zone, which offer tenants tax breaks and other incentives. 
Building on speculation in a fragile economy may seem quixotic. But Keystone, a publicly traded real estate trust based in the Philadelphia suburb of West Conshohocken, Pa., has the financial strength to construct the buildings without tenants, even at a cost of $33 million. It is betting that once the buildings are completed by June, they will not sit idle. 
Keystone owns 21 million square feet of industrial space nationwide and 6.6 million in New Jersey, with 3.3 million square feet more under development in the state outside Jersey City. The Jersey City buildings will be the final development within a 50-acre industrial park called Greenville Yards, begun as a city redevelopment project. Two warehouses, totaling 269,180 square feet, have already been built for specific users who also own their land, and construction will start this month on a third building, with 50,000 additional square feet. 
Keystone is confident that there will be demand for its buildings since, for years, only a meager amount of modern warehouse space has been constructed on speculation in North Jersey and particularly in the port area. The warehouses will have 36-foot ceilings, numerous loading bays, sprinkler systems and enough space for long tractor-trailers to turn around easily.
The lack of construction and the scarcity of buildable sites have helped temper the impact of the recently difficult economic times on vacancy rates and rents of industrial space in North Jersey. According to Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm, the vacancy rate for such space was 6.3 percent in the third quarter, up from 5.1 percent a year earlier. In the same periods, average asking rents for warehouses fell to $6.29 a square foot a year from $6.39. 
Rents at Keystone's buildings, designed by Andrew C. Churchill of Indianapolis, are expected to be $8.50 a square foot a year. "What tenants gain by operating more efficiently in modern warehouses more than offsets the rent," Mr. Kelter said.
John P. DiCola, senior vice president for investments at Keystone, said the company expected seaport sites to be increasingly attractive to users, particularly importers and exporters. He pointed to the capital improvement program begun in 2000 by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which this year dredged harbor channels to accommodate larger container ships. That in turn will enable the port to capture some Asian cargo trade from West Coast ports, he said.
Keystone bought the 26-acre site in September for $6.5 million from the Jersey City Redevelopment Authority. The authority, with Barrett Builders of Fort Lee as the designated developer, began to build the 50-acre industrial park in the late 1990's after a decade of delays, related in part to environmental issues.
The site, a brownfield, had to be cleaned of contaminants, mostly fly ash, remnants from its past as part of a 200-acre tract once owned by Conrail and used as a switching station, said Thomas Barrett, president of Barrett Builders, which is also the contractor for Keystone's buildings. The Port Authority earlier developed 150 of the 200 acres for uses like the Tropicana Northeast distribution center and a BMW complex where imported cars are received and inspected before being delivered to dealerships. 
Keystone's parcel is being cleaned according to a state-approved plan. The cleanup involves monitoring the groundwater, hauling away tainted soil and capping the tract by building the warehouses on it, Mr. Barrett said.
Sanford Greenberg, project coordinator at Jersey City's redevelopment authority, said the Keystone buildings would generate up to 400 jobs of a sort different from those in the city's office towers. "We need all sectors to diversify our employment and economic base," Mr. Greenberg said, adding that it "helps during hard times."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's rendering of one of two industrial warehouses planned by the Keystone Property Trust near the Jersey City and Elizabeth port areas. (Andrew C. Churchill, Architects) Map of Jersey City highlighting the Greenville Yards Complex. Chart: "Data Update"National housing starts, completions and sales, seasonally adjusted annual rates through October. Chart tracks starts, completions, and sales from 2000-2002. (Source: Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%) STORAGE; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); KEYSTONE PROPERTY TRUST (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) KEYSTONE PROPERTY TRUST 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%) SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%) JERSEY CITY (NJ); ELIZABETH (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



109 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Women's Colleges Learning How to Get a Man 

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
Since its founding in 1893, Hood College in Frederick, Md., has enrolled only women as full-time residential students. But after a decade of deficits and a growing struggle to find students, it has decided to become coeducational.
 "It was very frustrating from an admission standpoint to be at an all-women's school," said Susan Hallenbeck, dean of admissions. "You'd be at a college fair, talking to someone who was articulate and bright and when they learned that it was a women's residential school, they'd say no thanks and turn around and walk away." 
 There were once hundreds of all-women's colleges, most of which were founded in the 1800's and early 1900's. But since the late-1960's, in response to social, financial and competitive realities, most women's colleges have, like Hood, opened their doors to men. 
But the day the trustees vote to go coeducational can mark the beginning of a new challenge: attracting men to a place that is fixed in the public consciousness as a women's college. Fighting that lingering reputation has, for a range of institutions, been a difficult task.
Sarah Lawrence, which opened in 1928 as a women's college, went coeducational in 1968, but the percentage of men at the 1,000-student school in Yonkers has been frozen at 20 to 25 percent ever since. 
"The biggest struggle still," said Thyra L. Briggs, the dean of admissions, "is to let everyone know that we're coeducational. Thirty-five years later, mothers are still pulling their sons away from our table at college fairs, saying, 'Oh, no, that's a girl's school.' " 
The fact that Sarah Lawrence happens to have a woman's name, noted Ms. Briggs, is problematic, "and not just in rural Iowa -- but also Groton, Conn." There's a joke on campus that men would be more interested in a school called Max Lawrence.
Ms. Briggs said that 25 percent of all applicants -- both men and women -- end up enrolling, but fewer men apply, and the college will not lower its standards to achieve parity between the sexes. That said, Ms. Briggs admits to "keeping one eye on men, just as we keep one eye on people of color and other geographic and socioeconomic groups that add diversity."
Michele Tolela Myers, president of Sarah Lawrence, said there was a time when the small proportion of men caused considerable angst, and the methods used to dispel old notions were a touch heavy-handed.
In 1982, the college released a 16-page marketing booklet, "Sarah Lawrence Men." The first sentence was a question: "To be male and to be at Sarah Lawrence?" The answer offered reassurance: "The men are here to stay as vital figures in the intellectual, cultural and recreational life of the college." The booklet went on to profile six Sarah Lawrence graduates, including, pointedly, an industrial engineer, a doctor and a man who spends his free time playing in a town baseball league. 
One factor that made Sarah Lawrence's conversion difficult, Dr. Myers said, was that for decades the college had been identified in the news media as an intellectual center for politically and socially active New York women. "But at the time we went coeducational a lot of other schools did, too, so it wasn't news," Dr. Myers said.
What was a big story at the time was what sort of men would go to a former women's college, and some of the first answers caused Vassar, which went coeducational in 1970, a public relations headache. From Mary McCarthy's popular novel "The Group," about eight Vassar graduates, as well as frequent references in the culture, Vassar, like Sarah Lawrence, was an icon as a women's college.
But in 1974, an Esquire article turned the spotlight on the first men at Vassar, and the depiction was not flattering.
In one of the tamer passages, Janie Gaynor wrote: "The 'Vassar Male' has not had time to develop completely, but the preliminary model seems to be skinny with a sallow complexion."
Vassar's freshman class this year is now about 40 percent men, close to the average for liberal arts colleges. But Frances D. Fergusson, who has been Vassar's president for nearly 17 years, said that getting there has not been easy. "It takes time in academia, meaning a generation, or 25 years, for people to change their opinions about an institution," she said. 
She added: "I got here 16 years after the moment when the change occurred, and there were still people who would forget we were coed, even those who were doing our recruiting."
Though the basics of the Vassar education were not touched, there were tweaks.
"When I came in, admissions material was done in pastel colors," Dr. Fergusson said. "It didn't work so well." Then there was the issue of the school colors. "They were a soft pinky-rose and gray," she said. "They are now a deeper maroon red and gray. We saturated the colors a little, which seems appropriate." 
Vassar, which is in Poughkeepsie, opened a $10 million athletic center in 2000, which Dr. Fergusson said was done for the sake of all students, not to attract men. "But I will say," she added, "that for a while Vassar did hesitate to go into athletics, because it looked like we were giving in to men. But that overlooked how much women -- and increasingly so -- are involved in athletics."
Norman Fainstein, who used to be the dean of faculty at Vassar, is now the president of Connecticut College in New London, also a former women's school. He said the reality of having a less splashy past made attracting men "easier and smoother for us" than it has been for Vassar or Sarah Lawrence. Connecticut College, which went coeducational in 1969, is currently 42 percent men, and has remained between 39 percent and 49 percent men since 1985. 
Dr. Fainstein said that compared with Sarah Lawrence, his college has another advantage that is a product of luck.
"It's a neutral name," he said. "Like Colorado College, we sometimes get confused with the state school, but there's not the women's school confusion." There could have been -- it was once named Connecticut College for Women -- but the "for women" was easily lopped off. 
Few college officials admit to overt strategies to lure men to campus, but Richard A. Berman, the president of Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., does.
Manhattanville, a Catholic college which became both coeducational and non-denominational in the early 1970's, is currently 32 percent men, and Mr. Berman said his goal was to bring it up to the national average. To this end, the college is dedicating resources to majors that appeal to men, like economics, which is 55 percent male, and mathematics, 50 percent male.
"We tend to strengthen some of the majors that are more attractive to men, while staying within our mission," he said.
Four years ago, in part to attract men, the college started hockey teams for both men and women. Recently, it signed a five-year, $1 million contract so the two teams could use Rye Playland's ice rink as its home ice. "We've also raised the bar for all our athletic programs," Mr. Berman said, "and we've done more recruiting."
Shoring up sports and tailoring academic offerings are crucial for former women's colleges, said Thomas G. Mortenson, a senior scholar at the Pell Institute, especially in the current environment in which men are going to college in smaller numbers over all than women.
"Sports programs and facilities are attractive to men, and you better have engineering and computer science or you don't have a fighting chance," Mr. Mortenson said. "Too many schools are all about literature, English and French, and then they put some photographs of beautiful girls in the brochure and think that will attract the men."
At Hood College, which hopes that admitting men will lead to a financial turnaround, officials are employing a grab bag of methods. Hood is starting five male athletic teams; emphasizing fields of study, like management, that appeal to men; mining databases for alumni with sons of suitable age; and waging e-mail campaigns to guidance counselors.
Dr. Hallenbeck, Hood's dean of admissions, said the college had received 21 applications from men, and she hoped to enroll an entire residence floor of 30 to 35 come September.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An all-male a cappella singing group at Sarah Lawrence College, which opened as a women's college in 1928 and first admitted men 40 years later. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); MEN (88%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; WOMEN; MEN 

ORGANIZATION: HOOD COLLEGE; VASSAR COLLEGE; SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE 

PERSON: FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: FREDERICK, MD, USA (92%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



110 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
An Urban Attraction for Students

BYLINE:  By ROBERT SHAROFF 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
A college dormitory now under construction will double the amount of student housing in the Loop, the city's downtown business district, and is another step in the transformation of State Street -- formerly the city's retail hub -- into a mixed-use avenue of stores, theaters and educational sites.
 The $150 million project, called University Center, is notable for another reason as well. It is, spokesmen for each of the institutions involved said, the first time three universities have collaborated on the construction of housing. The three -- all of which have downtown campuses within walking distance -- are DePaul and Roosevelt Universities and Columbia College. 
 The three have formed a nonprofit corporation called the Educational Advancement Fund to develop and manage the 700,000-square-foot, 1,720-bed dormitory, which is expected to be finished by the start of the 2004 academic year.
"The economies of scale, the financing and the construction all speak to this being a prototype other schools will duplicate in the future," said Kenneth McHugh, executive vice president for operations at DePaul, which started the project in the late 1990's when plans for a DePaul-only dormitory on the site fell through. "The financing alone is something no one university could do on its own. There are enormous economies of scale with regard not only to construction costs but also to operating expenses."
The project is being financed by 30-year bonds that will be retired by the roughly $20 million a year in revenues the fully leased dormitory is expected to generate. The city -- which has been promoting the revitalization of State Street for a number of years -- has donated the land, a 1.45 acre site at the southeast corner of State Street and Congress Parkway, valued at about $5 million.
Alicia Mazur Berg, Chicago's commissioner of planning and development, said the city was getting "a big bang for the buck." The student population not only has a major economic impact on stores and restaurants, she said, but also contributes to Mayor Richard M. Daley's stated goal of making the Loop a place where there is 24-hour activity.
A big factor in the success of the project was making it a stand-alone proposition not dependent on the financial performances of the different universities. 
"The financing has been done in a way that maximizes control on the part of the institutions but at the same time passes off much of the risk for debt service to individual investors," said Robert Bronstein, president of the Scion Group, a Chicago-based real estate consulting firm that assisted in the project's financing. 
Specifically, the universities have signed a guarantee to lease all of the dormitory's 1,720 beds for the first year of operation. 
Current demand for student housing downtown is so strong, however, that, "investors are willing to invest based on the cash flows of the project, as opposed to the creditworthiness of the schools," Mr. Bronstein said.
The universities are not equal partners in the project. DePaul and Columbia both are taking about 40 percent of the beds while Roosevelt will have about 20 percent. 
Both Columbia and Roosevelt -- which have headquarters in the Loop -- have existing dorms in the area, with a total of just over 800 beds. DePaul, meanwhile, which has 2,600 beds at its main Lincoln Park campus on the North Side, recently signed a two-year lease on a 230-bed property at 320 North Michigan Avenue, which is intended to fill the housing gap until the new building is completed.
Rates paid by students in the joint dormitory will be the same no matter which university they attend and will range from $625 to $985 a month. 
"One of the challenges of this project will be creating a cohesive student community within the facility," said Albert Gall, executive vice president of Columbia College. "It would be difficult to build such a community if Columbia's students, say, were paying more than other students."
The project is being designed by two Chicago architecture firms, Antunovich Associates and VOA Associates, with the former being the lead designer.
The 18-story reinforced-concrete structure will also include 32,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space as well as 15,000 square feet of conference space. "The idea is that in summer, when a dorm would normally be empty, the universities will host conferences where attendees will stay in the building," said Joseph Antunovich, president of Antunovich Associates.
The dorm rooms come in two sizes; there are 312 two-bedroom suites and 192 four-bedroom miniapartments. Each room is designed to house four students. "Each room will have high-speed Internet access, cable TV and individual climate-control systems," Mr. Antunovich said. "It's a very sophisticated facility."
That there is a shortage of student housing in Chicago seems undeniable. Three years ago, the Scion Group surveyed 33 of the largest postsecondary institutions in the city and found that 29 cited the lack of adequate housing as a continuing problem in attracting and keeping students. 
"It really is something that is critical to the growth of urban schools," Mr. Bronstein said. "If you're 17 or 18 years old and can't live on campus, chances are you're not going to rent an apartment in downtown Chicago or Boston or New York."
A decade ago, there was little or no student housing in the Loop. The boom began when the School of the Art Institute opened a 200-bed dormitory -- since converted to academic space -- across Michigan Avenue from the institute in 1993. This was followed by a 200-bed dormitory on Madison Street in 1996. Both of these buildings involved renovating existing Class C office and hotel properties into living spaces. 
Finally, in 2000, the school opened a splashy complex at the corner of State and Randolph Streets that involved both new and old construction and included a 500-bed dormitory and a new home for the Gene Siskel Film Center, part of the institute. In addition, the complex has 34,000 square feet of retail space anchored by a three-level Borders Books store. Over all, the school has spent about $100 million on downtown student housing projects over the last decade, financed by 30-year revenue bonds.
The addition of housing has had a significant impact on the school, according to Tony Jones, its president. "When I came here in 1985, 75 percent of the student body was from Illinois or neighboring states," he said. "Today, it's the reverse. It's a gigantic sea change."
The three universities behind University Center have similar aims. "The project is very market driven," Mr. Gall said. "In the last few years, the number of out-of-town applications and inquiries we've had has increased significantly. In order to position the institution to respond to these inquiries, we have to acquire and develop housing strategies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A drawing of the planned $150 million University Center dormitory in the Chicago Loop. It is a result of cooperation among three institutions: DePaul and Roosevelt Universities and Columbia College. (Antunovich Associates) Map of Chicago highlighting the site of the new dormitory: The site of the University Center dormitory in the Chicago Loop. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (94%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; DORMITORIES 

ORGANIZATION: DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (94%) UNIVERSITY CENTER (CHICAGO); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY; ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (CHICAGO); COLUMBIA COLLEGE (CHICAGO); EDUCATIONAL ADVANCEMENT FUND 

PERSON: SHAROFF, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



111 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
AOL Time Warner's Warning About Advertising Sends Shares Down

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A disappointing outlook from AOL Time Warner put investors on the defensive yesterday, prompting them to question the strength of other companies and bid stocks lower. 
 Analysts said the downturn, which extended a decline that began on Friday, was not surprising given how far stock prices had come recently, with the Dow Jones industrial average moving higher in the last eight weeks. 
 While investors are growing more confident about the economy and earnings, they are expected to cash in some profits, especially amid the uncertainty over whether there will be a war with Iraq. 
"At these levels, the market is in pullback mode," said Gary Kaltbaum, market technician for Investors' Edge Partners in Orlando, Fla. 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 119.64 points, or 1.4 percent, at 8,742.93, for a three-day loss of 188.75. 
The broader market also retreated. The Nasdaq index fell 35.82 points, or 2.4 percent, to 1,448.96. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 13.78 points, or 1.5 percent, to 920.75. 
Investors sold off AOL, down $2.36, to $14.21, after the company affirmed its 2002 earnings forecast for its America Online unit but warned of sinking advertising revenues. 
Wall Street's losers also included companies scheduled to issue earnings outlooks later in the week, a sign that investors were feeling skittish. 
Merck dropped $1.13, to $58.82, ahead of its yearly forecast tomorrow. Its shares fell as much as $4.79 but partly recovered after the company said that it was reaffirming its outlook. 
Intel fell 74 cents, to $20.31, ahead of tomorrow's midquarter update. 
Investors also punished Ford Motor, which fell $1.49, to $9.96, after posting about a 20 percent drop in November car sales. 
Brokerage firm downgrades hurt other stocks. The supermarket chain Albertson's fell $1.31, to $22.26, on a downgrade from J. P. Morgan, while Marriott International declined $1.22, to $34.47, on a downgrade from Deutsche Securities. 
Analysts called the market's slippage moderate, and in some ways, necessary.
"The market has gotten a little extended here without resolution to the Iraq conflict," said Jeff Kleintop, chief investment strategist for the PNC Financial Services Group in Philadelphia. 
"We have gone beyond or at the threshold of where the market is comfortable going right now," he said. 
But there were some gainers on Wall Street, including Citrix Systems, up $1.26, at $12.69, after raising its fourth-quarter earnings estimate. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
By Reuters
Treasury prices pushed higher yesterday, taking advantage of a second session of stock weakness to recoup some lost ground, though traders cautioned that customer demand was sporadic. 
Data on chain store sales, while showing some growth last week, failed to match hopes of a bumper start to the holiday season and gave some support to Treasury prices.
The 10-year note rose 4/32, to a price of 98 11/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 4.21 percent, from 4.22 percent on Monday. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond also rose 4/32, to 105 2/32. The yield dropped to 5.04 percent from 5.05 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.906
High Rate: 1.210
Coupon Yield: 1.227
Low Rate: 1.180
Median Rate: 1.200
Total applied for: $62,720,821
Accepted: $23,303,498
Noncompetitive: $42,589

The 4-week bills mature Jan. 2, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Yesterday and one month ago)(Maturity 3-6 months and 2-30 years.) (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); RETAIL SALES (67%); RETAILERS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: AOL INC (95%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (64%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); INTEL CORP (54%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%); CITRIX SYSTEMS INC (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (95%); MAR (NYSE) (64%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); PNC (NYSE) (52%); CTXS (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



112 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Egyptian Court Frees Rights Advocate and Orders Retrial 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
In a stunning slap at Egypt's emergency laws, the country's highest appeals court ordered a retrial yesterday for Saad Eddin Ibrahim, an Egyptian-American civil rights advocate whose high-profile prosecution strained ties with the United States and was seen as a blatant effort to intimidate critics of the Cairo government.
 Mr. Ibrahim, a sociology professor who has been ailing, was released so quickly from Tora Prison in Cairo after the ruling that when his family was called to collect him they found him just outside the walls in his prison robe with just his walker.
 The Court of Cassation nullified a seven-year sentence issued two times by the Supreme State Security Court and announced that the highest court itself would hear a new trial starting on Jan. 7. 
Mr. Ibrahim, 64, and his supporters expressed confidence that he would be acquitted this time.
"This whole case was unnecessary," Mr. Ibrahim, looking drawn, told reporters as he sat on a couch in his apartment a few hours after his release. "Everyone emerged a loser. The country is a loser. The government is a loser. The regime was a loser. I was a loser, and my family was a loser."
He and 27 others, mostly staff members at the Ibn Khaldoun Center for Social and Developmental Studies, were arrested in July 2000 after announcing that they would monitor parliamentary elections that fall. The center had said the elections in 1995 were rigged.
Mr. Ibrahim had been found guilty of defaming Egypt, accepting money from overseas without authorization and other charges stemming from his research on sensitive topics like voter rights and the treatment of the Coptic minority.
The case was a curiosity from the start, with the grapevine attributing it to an article that he wrote that ridiculed the idea of Arab leaders, including President Hosni Mubarak, grooming their sons for succession. 
The United States had raised concerns about the case and its ramifications for reform in Egypt. President Bush sent a letter to Mr. Mubarak over the summer that warned that the United States would not deliver new aid to Egypt to protest the prosecution. 
Today, the Bush administration praised the court decision. "As you are very well aware, the United States has felt that his conviction was unjust," said Philip T. Reeker, a spokesman for the State Department. 
The American Embassy in Cairo, Mr. Reeker said, has been in close contact with Mr. Ibrahim and his family throughout the case and will continue to monitor his treatment. 
Egypt had sought an additional $130 million this year after Congress approved a $200 million increase in aid for Israel to fight terrorism. Traditionally, the United States has increased aid to Egypt by two-thirds the amount of new funds for Israel. The two nations are the top two recipients of American assistance.
Administration critics have accused the government of being too timid in backing Mr. Ibrahim because they did not want to bruise relations with Cairo at a time the United States needed support in trying to solve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and, possibly, in action against Iraq. Egypt reacted by telling the United States to stay out of its internal affairs, and the criticism from Washington was used to smear Mr. Ibrahim. 
"It backfired, because the governmental press used this to tarnish Saad Eddin Ibrahim further and tell people here we've been deprived of $130 million because of this American spy," said Hisham Kassem of the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights. 
Neither human rights advocates nor Mr. Ibrahim's family said they thought that the American criticism had any effect on the Court of Cassation. They said the court would have ordered a retrial anyway in view of its reputation for independence. 
"The moral of the story is that the judiciary needs reform, that we're still safe with the Court of Cassation, and that it's not safe for civil rights activists to work anymore," Mr. Kassem said. "They are perceived as a threat by the government." 
Mr. Ibrahim noted that the ruling yesterday was the second time that the Court of Cassation had saved him. It had previously ordered the Supreme State Security Court to retry the case, and that court handed down the same speedy verdict. 
Egyptian and international human rights organizations had denounced the trials last year and earlier this year, accusing the State Security Court of trampling over basic procedures in its eagerness to convict. 
"This shows how this parallel system is so unjust against the citizen and against the country," said Mr. Ibrahim, a professor at the American University in Cairo. 
Three other employees of the Ibn Khaldoun Center, which Mr. Ibrahim helped found and which pushed for political and economic reform throughout the Arab world, had also been found guilty and given lesser sentences. The Court of Cassation also demanded new trials for them. They are widely expected to be released soon. 
Human rights organizations that monitored the trials said the charges against Mr. Ibrahim belonged in the regular court system and not in the emergency courts, which give the government sweeping powers to arrest and convict.
"In the state security system, you clearly have a misuse of law," said Neil Hicks, a specialist on the Egyptian legal system at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York. "You have a system used to target the government's nonviolent political enemies." 
Mr. Hicks said the new decision showed that there was still some independence in Egypt's judiciary system. 
"It sends an important message that there is still space for independent thought and free speech and nonviolent criticism of the government in Egypt," he said.
In a statement from Washington, Human Rights Watch, called on the government to restore Mr. Ibrahim's passport and to let him travel abroad for medical treatment. He broke his leg in prison. 
Spectators packing the small courtroom clapped and hugged one another when the ruling was read. 
"It's a wonderful day for me, for my husband, for Egyptians and justice in this country," said Mr. Ibrahim's wife, Barbara. 
Mr. Ibrahim spent 14 months in jail, being released for five months in the summer for his second trial. He said that he spent his time incarcerated working or giving literacy classes for the prison guards and that he heard the news about the court decision from other inmates. 
"We're all a bit stunned," said his daughter Ronda, describing the initial scene at home with Mr. Ibrahim's dandling a grandchild on each knee while speaking on a telephone in each ear to well-wishers and Arabic satellite television stations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Saad Eddin Ibrahim greeting family members yesterday outside Tora Prison in Cairo after 14 months in jail. His wife, Barbara, and daughter Ronda, below, after the top appeals court in Egypt freed Mr. Ibrahim. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); ACQUITTAL (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); ARRESTS (65%); APPROVALS (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



113 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Interest Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By Bernard Simon (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Citing an unexpected slowing in Canada's economy, the Bank of Canada said that it would leave its crucial overnight interest rate unchanged at 2.75 percent. 
The bank raised the rate three times earlier this year when Canada was outpacing the United States in economic growth. But domestic growth slowed in the third quarter to an annualized rate of 3.1 percent, mostly, the bank said, because of uncertainties and weakness in other countries. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); TRENDS (83%) CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CANADA 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (90%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



114 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Democratic State Senator Is Switching to the G.O.P. 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
State Senator Olga A. Mendez, who represents a largely Hispanic district in northern Manhattan and part of the Bronx, announced yesterday that she was leaving the Democratic Party. She made the announcement surrounded by Republican leaders, including the governor and the mayor.
 Senator Mendez said she was switching parties because she and the voters she has represented for two dozen years had been taken for granted by the Democrats. 
 "The party has changed," she said at a news conference at the Women's National Republican Club in Midtown Manhattan. "And I no longer feel that the Democratic Party will be able to fill the needs that will solve the problems of my Puerto Rican constituents, my African-Americans and my whites in the 28th District. "I was hopeful that things would have changed within my own party. They haven't, so I do what I've got to do." 
Her announcement news conference, treated as a major event by Republicans, was attended by Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, among others.
With her switch, the Republican hold on the State Senate grows to 38 members, with the Democrats holding 24 seats. That gives the Republicans a three-fifths majority, which they need to pass the various local laws, and cuts the Democratic minority's leverage.
Many Democratic leaders, noting that Ms. Mendez has long voted with the Republican majority, said her decision would have little practical effect. Indeed, she was seen as one of Governor Pataki's major allies, having appeared in campaign commercials on his behalf earlier this year. 
Mr. Pataki did unusually well among Hispanic voters, taking about 38 percent of their votes, according to one estimate by the Graduate Center of the City University.
Ms. Mendez asserted that many Hispanic voters had become disenchanted with the Democratic Party. Pointing to economic development plans of the Pataki administration in her district, she said that voters had rewarded those efforts by throwing more support to Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bloomberg in recent elections.
In his remarks yesterday, Mr. Pataki said that her decision was fresh evidence that Republicans were making considerable gains among Hispanic voters as well as other groups. He said that he and other party leaders were working to "make sure that our party reaches out in ways that it hadn't in the past to different communities like the Latino community, like labor and gay and lesbian groups, to make sure that we do have an inclusive, big-tent party."
Ms. Mendez said that she had been repeatedly courted in the past by Mr. Bruno and that this time, he had offered her any Senate committee chairmanship she wanted. But she said that she had declined to take on any such role, adding that she had "other things" in mind that she would discuss later.
What the switch in party affiliation bodes for Ms. Mendez's political career in the long term is uncertain. In February, another longtime Democratic state senator, Pedro Espada Jr. of the Bronx, made a similar announcement, saying he was joining the Republican Party. Although Mr. Espada never officially changed his registration, his announcement became an issue in his re-election effort.
Mr. Espada lost the Democratic primary to City Councilman Ruben Diaz Sr., who had been selected by Democratic Party officials in the Bronx less than two weeks before the primary. And Mr. Espada, who remained on the ballot on the Republican and Independence Party lines, lost the general election last month. Like Mr. Espada, Ms. Mendez represents a heavily Democratic district that includes East Harlem, parts of Washington Heights and the South Bronx.
Some Democrats suggested that the 77-year-old senator might not run for re-election in two years. Yesterday, she called that supposition untrue. She added that she felt certain "that I made the right decision."
She said that she had not calculated how the voters night react to her decision in future elections but added that "I'm willing to take the consequences."

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator Olga A. Mendez says she is leaving the Democratic Party because it has taken her and the voters she represents for granted. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); LEGISLATION (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CLUB (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) HICKS, JONATHAN P; MENDEZ, OLGA A (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



115 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 895 words

PERSON: Ronnie Lowenstein 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Budget Office Scorned . . . Until a Budget Crisis

BYLINE:  By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
DURING the city's boom times in the late 1990's, Ronnie Lowenstein had a low profile as the chief economist in the New York City Independent Budget Office. Still, she had good reason to jump out of bed every morning and get to work. Call it the fear factor.
 The budget office, though approved by voters in 1989 as part of the city's Charter, was on the hit list of a succession of mayors and elected officials, who saw it as another layer of bureaucracy. Modeled on the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, it did not come to life with financing until 1996. And that took three lawsuits. 
 "People knew we were under attack, so they didn't want to be seen with us, literally," says Ms. Lowenstein, smiling and shaking her head. "There were elected officials who would call us but not be seen with us."
Ms. Lowenstein, 51 and now the director, is found the other morning in her austere office in a William Street high-rise near City Hall. With the city crunching numbers, having just plugged a $1.1 billion budget gap this fiscal year and struggling to fill a hole next year that had grown to $6.4 billion, guess whose telephone is ringing constantly?
"I may have been dull a few years ago, but I'm way more interesting now," says Ms. Lowenstein, laughing. "What may have been seen as abstract when the city was in a surplus seems very immediate when the city is looking at closing firehouses and hiking the property tax. We get so many requests from everybody; advocates -- the media, elected officials and the public -- that we now have to triage requests."
Sitting at a conference table in her tidy office, she is warm and friendly, chipper even, considering she was up at 1 a.m. baking holiday cookies. She pulls out a blank legal pad in anticipation of questions she can't immediately answer. On the walls, what passes for decorative art is a very large poster of an unofficial income tax receipt with a pie chart.
She is asked about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's austerity plan. What, for example, does she think of the 18.5 percent property tax rate increase imposed on city residents?
"If you've got a very large gap to deal with, you have to do some amount of spending cuts and tax increases, and this is the opening salvo in making sure this year's budget is balanced and starting to balance the budget for next year."
Yep. This is about as good as it gets. Don't expect her to unload juicy stuff on, say, her inner feelings about tax-increment financing.
"I'm not going to tell you whether I like this or that," she says. "Part of being the director is checking subjective beliefs and partisanship at the door."
She joined the office in 1996 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, taking over as director two years ago. She switched her party registration from Democrat to independent to emphasize her lack of political ties.
Even so, the office drew a vitriolic reaction from former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican. Among other things, it issued a report contradicting his assessment that a new stadium on the West Side would pay for itself. Ms. Lowenstein says the agency has a more collegial relationship with Mayor Bloomberg.
Recently reappointed to a four-year term by a committee of four elected officials, she clearly relishes the agency's role as impartial broker. "That was the idea from the beginning, putting out the best credible policy analyses that you can possibly do and the ability to be dispassionate about a topic that people feel passionate about," she says.
Ms. Lowenstein, who looks smaller than 5-foot-4, seems unflappable, detail-oriented. Yet her manner is perfectly accessible as she plunges into a fusillade of numbers. "This is techie," she leans over often to say. Her warm brown eyes take in a visitor's glazed expression, and she lightens up.
BUDGET watchers give the agency high marks for its readable Web site,www.ibo.nyc.ny.us and for reports like the newsletter on topics ranging from education spending and capital construction to the environment. In April, the agency released the first in a series of reports outlining options to reduce the city's budget gap.
"Pieces of it have been picked up in the current plan, but we're not keeping a scorecard," she says proudly.
Ms. Lowenstein grew up in Plainview, N.Y., the daughter of a garment-industry manufacturer and a substitute teacher. While studying at Guilford College in North Carolina, she imagined becoming a lawyer. So did many of her friends. Hear of supply and demand? She settled on economics.
"There are so many public-policy issues that fundamentally hinge upon economics, including welfare, taxation and education," says Ms. Lowenstein, who received her Ph.D. from Columbia. "I wanted to shed some light on it, and understand this important tool and translate it to a broader audience."
For the record, there's another side to Ms. Lowenstein. Remember those holiday cookies? An Upper West Sider, she has two sons, ages 17 and 20. Her husband, Kenneth, is a land-use lawyer.
As a parent, she wants her 27-member staff to get home to their kids at night. During the budget season, she says, that often means trading draft reports and spreadsheets by e-mail from home, well past midnight.
"I think it would be a mistake to say that now that we are well respected, we can sit back and coast," she says. "We've got to continue to show we're very credible and useful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: RONNIE LOWENSTEIN (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX INCREASES (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%) INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICE 

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) RICHARDSON, LYNDA; LOWENSTEIN, RONNIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



116 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
BOEING WORKERS IN WASHINGTON APPROVE CONTRACT

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The Boeing Company's engineers and technical workers in Washington State have overwhelmingly approved new three-year contracts that give the company some stability during a time of turmoil in commercial aviation. 
The agreements included raises and higher pensions but also increased the workers' share of medical care costs. The engineers and the technical workers approved their contracts by identical percentages, with 88.2 percent voting yes and 11.8 percent voting no, the union said. The union's leadership had recommended approval, saying it was the best contract possible given the economic downturn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (88%); APPROVALS (88%); CIVIL AVIATION (87%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); AIRLINES (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



117 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: United's Rivals Press a Struggle Of Rare Ferocity 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
The vitriolic campaign by major competitors of United Airlines to undermine its application for $1.8 billion in federal loan guarantees is only growing more brutal in its final days.
 Led by Northwest, Continental and American, the effort has included not just heated lobbying and the bandying about of financial analyses that cast doubts on United's business case, but also personal attacks by rival airline executives against United's top management. 
 Such contentiousness harks back to the last great political battle over bailing out an American industrial icon -- the Chrysler Corporation's struggle in 1979 to win Congressional backing for loan guarantees, at a time when Chrysler, the No. 3 automaker, was drowning in red ink.
That debate, like the one raging now over United, raised fundamental questions about the government's role in saving a sick company. But General Motors and Ford laid low in the battle over a Chrysler bailout -- a fight that seems benign in comparison with the nastiness prevailing now, as United's petition awaits a ruling by the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board. 
"Lobbying as an instrument of competitive strategy is nothing new, but I don't think I've ever seen it be so close to a blood sport," said John D. Donahue, professor of public policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
United's competitors -- irritated for years at how United, an employee-owned airline, has been run -- argue that Washington should do nothing to help the carrier avoid a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing that they argue is just the medicine it needs.
"This is survival for us," said Gordon M. Bethune, Continental's chief executive, who has led the rivals' charge. "This is not a game. This is not a boys' club. All of us are dying." 
Earlier this week, Mr. Bethune, calling United's management "clueless," circulated a financial analysis by Continental saying that United, even with taxpayer backing, would run out of cash by early 2004. United executives quickly denied that, accusing Continental of making faulty assumptions about its finances.
But Mr. Bethune, whose airline went into bankruptcy protection twice before finally emerging in 1993, said that loan guarantees for United would reward a badly managed company that had not sold off valuable routes or made deep cuts like other struggling airlines. 
"Look at Eastern, T.W.A., Braniff, Pan Am and what they tried to do" to stay in business, he said in an interview. "United isn't too big to fail. They'll just make a bigger hole when they hit the ground."
Uniquely among the major airlines, employees own 55 percent of the UAL Corporation, United's parent, and have three seats on its board. Competitors say that arrangement, born of an earlier financial crisis, has made United soft, prone to granting generous contracts to its workers and otherwise allowing its operations to grow bloated. 
United officials, and leaders of its unions, say the other airlines hope to benefit from the chaos that might surround United if it seeks bankruptcy protection. They may also press their unions to match any lower pay rates or work rule changes forced upon United by a bankruptcy court.
"I can see why they would want to defeat us," said Frederic F. Brace III, United's chief financial officer, in an interview. "We are the airline that has the best set of assets in the industry, and our operating performance has been truly outstanding. They would clearly hate to compete with an airline that has the assets, the performance and much lower costs."
Still, the leading airlines -- caught in the worst industry downturn ever, with the industry's losses in the billions since the September 2001 attacks -- could end up ruing their success if the government turns away United's request for help.
If air travel shrinks further amid a war with Iraq, "these very airlines may find themselves pleading to resurrect a loan guarantee program before an angered and recalcitrant Congress," said Kevin P. Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents corporate travel departments and travelers. 
While the Chrysler bailout was ultimately approved by Congress, a decision on assisting United falls to the more obscure air stabilization board, created by Congress after Sept. 11, 2001. Its three voting members -- top officials of the Treasury and Transportation Departments and the Federal Reserve -- have deliberated in private, and up to now over much smaller guarantee packages for much smaller airlines. 
As a result, experts say, neither United nor its competitors can be sure just what will sway the board. And that may be why rivals have been so hard nosed in their attacks.
"Because this is a new system and a secret system," Professor Donahue said, "nobody knows what the rules are and even if there are any rules."
The competitors' bitter campaign has startled some people in the airline industry, who remember the days before deregulation, when an almost familylike atmosphere prevailed among the carriers even as they competed for customers. The only family that the campaign against United brings to mind these days is the Sopranos, with Mr. Bethune in the unlikely role of don.
Mr. Bethune said he would have preferred to simply send a letter to the loan board opposing United's application and then let the process take care of itself. But, he maintained, seeing the lobbying campaign waged by United and its competitors, he decided to weigh in. "If it's just facts and data, we would just shut up and they would never get the loan," Mr. Bethune said. But once the process became political, he said, he thought it was important to speak up, because "our government is not always run on logic."
Mr. Brace, the United executive, sees a quite different impetus: Mr. Bethune, he said, would be eager to snap up United routes and other assets in a bankruptcy court fire sale.
"Obviously, Gordon has expressed his motive very directly," he said. "I can understand why they clearly would love to get their hands on some of our assets."
Analysts said that American, which last year displaced United as the world's largest airline, would also benefit from a hobbling of its competitor. It could compete aggressively for passengers in Chicago, a major hub for both carriers. And American -- struggling to beat back the industry's profit leader, Southwest, with which it competes on many of its domestic routes -- would be likely to seize any opening to cut labor costs.
Tim Doke, a spokesman for American, acknowledged there would be advantages for competitors in a bankruptcy filing by United. But there is a case to be made, he said, that United would benefit more.
"I think you can equally draw the scenario that it immediately gives them relief from paying their bills, such a significantly lower cost structure, and the ability to implement distress pricing," Mr. Doke said. "They would be able to use their lower costs as a pricing lever."
Although American, too, lost planes in the September 2001 attacks, it did not apply for loan guarantees because of indications that the loan board "would not look favorably on applications from people like us, Delta, Continental and United" that had assets they could easily sell or use as leverage in financing, Mr. Doke said. But when United applied, he said, "we were a little surprised."
Both Mr. Bethune and Mr. Doke argue that granting loan guarantees to United on the basis of the concessions it has secured from its employees would deal an unfair blow to the survival efforts of another struggling carrier, US Airways.
Already operating under bankruptcy protection, US Airways in recent days has cut more jobs, closed some maintenance operations and sought further concessions from its unions, which are beginning to dig in their heels.
"They'll never get another nickel," Mr. Bethune said of management at US Airways, if United gets its loan guarantees after obtaining just one round of concessions from its unions.
A US Airways spokesman declined to comment on whether it is lobbying against United's application.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Even as United Airlines seeks to counter lobbying against federal loan guarantees by rival carriers, it is trying to obtain cost concessions from its mechanics, like these men near Chicago, who oppose cutbacks that their union leaders have accepted. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Gordon M. Bethune, chief executive of Continental Airlines, says federal loan guarantees for United would reward a badly managed company. (Associated Press)(pg. C8) Chart: "Weighted Down"Competitors complain that employee ownership at United Airlines helps keep labor costs high throughout the industry. LABOR COSTSof flying one seat one mile 2nd quarter 2002 US Airways*: 5.76 centsUnited Airlines: 4.94American Airlines: 4.94Delta Air Lines: 4.32Northwest Airlines: 4.06Continental Airlines: 3.43 *In Chapter 11 proceedings. (Source: ECLAT Consulting)(pg. C1) Chart: "Growing Cost of Labor"Last year, the labor costs of the biggest arilines increased to almost 39 percent of their overall costs from 37 percent in 1994. Average cost to fly one seat one mile on major* airlines Labor costs as a percentage of total in italics 1994: 37.1%1995: 37.7%1996: 36.8%1997: 37.2%1998: 38.5%1999: 38.9%2000: 38.2%2001: 38.9% *American, Continental, Delta, Northwest, United and US Airways (Source: ECLAT Consulting)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); PETITIONS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CREDIT; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (94%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%) AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD; UNITED AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (94%); PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



118 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Troops Disrupt Protest as Caracas Oil Workers Join Strike 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Soldiers firing tear gas put down a peaceful protest by striking antigovernment workers from the state oil company today, prompting dissident managers to announce that their walkout against President Hugo Chavez's left-leaning government would extend for a third day.
 The workers from Petroleos de Venezuela, one of the world's largest oil companies and a key supplier of oil to the United States, on Monday joined a national general strike convened by business leaders and politicians pressuring Mr. Chavez to hold an early referendum on his rule. 
 The strike, which continued today, had appeared to lose some momentum, as a growing number of shops and businesses opened throughout the city. 
But after troops scattered protesters, furious opposition leaders announced that the strike, aided by street protests, would continue on Wednesday. Oil company executives opposed to Mr. Chavez said they would join in full force, possibly paralyzing the government, which derives half its revenues from oil sales.
Dozens of heavily armed National Guard troops descended without warning early in the afternoon on hundreds of white collar workers who were staging a protest outside the offices of Petroleos de Venezuela.
"The people were peaceful, holding flags and yelling slogans, and they came down brutally and with a huge force," said Juan Fernandez, an oil company manager who is a dissident leader, in an interview.
The strike, which began Monday, puts the government and an increasingly emboldened opposition on a collision course and threatens to disrupt oil supplies for the United States. "Confrontation is dangerous," Mr. Fernandez said. "You know when it begins, but not when it ends."
The participation of oil company employees in a strike in April shut down the economy and prompted a week of protests that turned violent, leading to Mr. Chavez's temporary removal from power. Opponents charge that Mr. Chavez's government is inept and dangerously radical, while supporters say his reforms have given voice to the poor masses.
Speaking to reporters this evening, Mr. Chavez argued that the strike was a thinly disguised effort to topple him from power. He also played down the unrest, saying, "They are not going to destabilize the country." But oil company executives said 90 percent of the industry's executives and staff support workers were on strike, along with 65 percent of the blue collar workers.
Overseas shipments from the Puerto la Cruz refinery were interrupted. Gasoline supplies in Caracas were also expected to run out soon because of striking truck drivers.
The turmoil at the Petroleos de Venezuela facilities overshadowed a development that could help resolve the political turbulence. Electoral officials announced today that they had voted 4 to 1 in favor of holding a nonbinding referendum in February on Mr. Chavez's rule.
The announcement by Alfredo Avella, president of the National Electoral Council, appeared to overcome a Supreme Court decision last week that had voided an original 3-to-1 vote in favor of the referendum. The Supreme Court had said three votes were not enough, but today Mr. Avella announced that a board member who had not voted initially had voted in favor today.
"This changes everything," said an official close to talks, which are being mediated by the Organization of American States. "We just hope things do not go crazy, and tomorrow we can start negotiating."
The streets here, though, were filled with mobs of enraged anti-Chavez protesters intent on antagonizing National Guard troops. Government foes angry that some businesses opened today forced the closings of a string of stores in at least two neighborhoods.
The store owners, many of them opponents of the government themselves, condemned the protesters, saying they felt harassed. Indeed, some shopkeepers who at first opened their doors had a change of heart after antigovernment demonstrators threw firecrackers inside their stores.
"We are not against a strike, but people should be allowed to do what they want to do," said Orlando Rodriguez, after shotgun-toting police officers arrived to enable him to open his deli. "We are fighting against Chavez, too. Why? Because he is trying to force us to do things." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (94%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); STRIKES (73%); SHIPMENTS (63%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



119 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Big Three's Auto Sales Fell Sharply in November 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Sales at General Motors and the Ford Motor Company fell sharply in November from robust levels a year ago, and stocks of both companies were battered today. 
 Many investors are concerned about the prospect of slumping industry sales next year, which even the automakers are expecting, coupled with increasing competition as foreign carmakers open more plants in the United States and continue to encroach on the lucrative pickup and sport utility market. 
 Shares of Ford, which had begun to emerge from a deep swoon in recent weeks, fell 13 percent today, or $1.49, to $9.96. The company reported a 20 percent decline in sales in November from a year earlier and said it would cut production in the fourth quarter and next year. 
G.M. reported an 18 percent drop in sales from a year earlier, and its shares fell 5.1 percent, or $2.05, to $37.90. The disappointing performance last month was a significant setback for G.M. because its market share for the year is now down slightly from a year ago. 
Overall industry sales, which were strong until recent months, fell 12.7 percent in November from a year ago, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. 
"Investors got much more optimistic about the economy over all so the sales numbers were a discordant data point," said John Casesa, an auto analyst at Merrill Lynch. "The auto sales numbers say demand is still struggling."
Among other carmakers, November sales at BMW rose 25 percent from November of last year and are up 18 percent for the first 11 months of this year compared with the period last year. Honda sales rose 4.6 percent for November. Toyota sales fell 5.2 percent, but the company has gained more than half a percentage point of market share in the United States this year, according to the Autodata Corporation, a data and research firm. 
Sales at Chrysler, which put heavy incentives on its midsize S.U.V.'s, declined 12 percent for November, while sales at Mercedes rose 7.5 percent. Both companies are units of DaimlerChrysler. Daimler stock fell 5.1 percent, or $1.82, to $33.75. 
Industry sales did improve from October, which had a seasonally adjusted annual selling rate of 15.4 million units, the lowest level in more than four years. Last month, sales recovered to a rate of approximately 16 million units.
Analysts said the wild swings in Ford stock in recent weeks, and to a lesser extent in G.M. shares, had probably been influenced by hedge funds, private investment pools that cater to the wealthy. Many hedge fund managers seek out volatile stocks and look to profit by making big bets on short-term gyrations. The activity of such investors, analysts said, has probably been amplified because more traditional investors, including individuals and mutual funds, have not been investing in automotive stocks.
Ford stock hit a 10-year low of $6.90 in October but had gained 66 percent from that low point when the market closed on Monday, before shares tumbled today.
While Ford cut its production, G.M., with a smaller inventory, said it would increase output in the fourth quarter and in 2003. A marketing and incentive push is expected as G.M. tries to raise December sales enough to have a second consecutive year of increased market share -- something G.M. has not achieved since the 1970's.
"We are still targeting a slight increase in this calendar year," said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief industry sales analyst. "It's going to require us to pick up the pace in December." 
Through November, G.M. had sold about 4.54 million cars and light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans -- compared with about 4.39 million a year earlier, according to the Autodata Corporation. 
G.M. also said today that Rick Wagoner, its chief executive, would add the title of chairman when the current chairman, John F. Smith Jr., retires in May. The moves had been expected. Mr. Smith, 64, came to power after a boardroom coup in 1992, and Mr. Wagoner, 49, has risen through the ranks as his top protege. While G.M. was widely criticized for much of the 1990's for its sinking market share and for products deemed boring, in the last couple of years the work of Mr. Smith and Mr. Wagoner, who took over for Mr. Smith as chief executive in 2000, has been looked upon more favorably. 
Most analysts say that G.M. has far greater manufacturing efficiencies than Ford and, with idiosyncratic products like Hummers and Cadillac Escalades, has cast off some of the blandness that once characterized its lineup. 
Mr. Wagoner faces several challenges.
First, Detroit continues to spend thousands of dollars a vehicle on incentive deals like interest-free financing, but there are indications that consumers are starting to treat the Big Three's 14-month-old price war as part of the normal landscape instead of as a special event. Second, a softening in sales has dealerships brimming with extra inventory. Third, industry sales are expected to soften next year while competition increases. Fourth, G.M., as well as Ford, faces a huge disparity compared with foreign rivals because of pension and health care costs. Fifth, imports continue to maintain strong sales with lesser incentives because they have better reputations for quality and desirability. 
"My priorities are clear," Mr. Wagoner said. "We'll continue to bring out 'gotta have' products, compete aggressively in the marketplace, and drive quality and cost improvements, while we work to strengthen our balance sheet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New cars line the sidewalks as dealers, like this one in St. Louis, try to pull customers into showrooms with year-end sales, rebates and zero percent financing incentives. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); MARKET SHARE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; WARD'S AUTO INFO BANK; BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



120 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Bush to End Rule Allowing Jobless Money for New Parents 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
The Bush administration will repeal a Clinton-era rule that allows states to use unemployment insurance money to help people who take a leave from work to have babies or adopt children, officials said today.
 The executive action will effectively shut down legislative efforts in as many as 16 states to make unemployment compensation money available to working parents who have taken time off to care for a newborn or adopted child. 
 The move prompted an outcry among family rights advocates and women's groups, but was welcomed by business groups that had opposed the rule since President Bill Clinton approved it in June 2000. 
The Labor Department said the repeal was necessary because the economic slowdown since the Sept. 11 attacks had depleted state unemployment trust funds, leaving 28 states with less than 12 months of benefits in reserve. Officials said, moreover, that the Clinton rule, which has not been put into effect by any state, would allow for claims that Congress never intended to finance.
"Our first priority is to help laid-off workers and their families, and this new measure strengthens their safety net," said Emily Stover DeRocco, the assistant secretary of labor for employment and training. 
Ms. DeRocco said states had demonstrated their concern about dwindling reserves by refusing to activate the rule, which she called an experiment. Only the Massachusetts Legislature approved the use of unemployment money for family leave purposes, but the measure was vetoed by Gov. Paul Cellucci, a Republican.
Advocates of the rule voiced dismay and accused the administration of forcing new parents to choose between being responsible workers and responsible parents.
"It's outrageous," said Judith L. Lichtman, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families. "It's just a slap in the face to working people."
Ms. Lichtman said the rule affecting unemployment money was a creative successor to the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which entitles employees of large companies to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for newborn children or sick relatives or tend to their own health problems.
"All this regulation did was, for the first time, give states the option to use" the unemployment money to cover wages lost when parents took leave, she said.
Business groups have fought the rule for two years, saying it amounts to a new tax on employers. Citing estimates that as many as 1.9 million working women might be eligible for such benefits, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers charged that states' unemployment insurance costs could increase by as much as 20 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); PARENTING (90%); ADOPTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); SICK LEAVE (89%); WOMEN (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); PARENTS (77%); VETO (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); APPROVALS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



121 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Bush Restoring Cash Bonuses For Appointees 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
The White House has decided that several thousand political appointees across the federal government will be eligible for cash bonuses, abandoning a Clinton-era prohibition that grew out of questionable practices in the first Bush administration.
 Administration officials said the policy shift, ordered by the White House chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr., earlier this year but never publicly disclosed, seeks to correct the inequity of political appointees' working side by side with civil servants who routinely receive bonuses. 
 The new policy is being instituted at many federal departments, and a few agencies have already begun distributing awards of several thousand dollars each to political appointees. For example, the Justice Department has given bonuses to political appointees who were deemed to have played important roles in counterterrorism and the Sept. 11 investigation, officials said.
The policy is causing rumblings of discontent from some career officials. They say the policy threatens to reward employees for political loyalty and could force career civil servants to compete against well-connected political appointees for the millions of dollars in bonus money that their bosses distribute each year. The Bush administration did not help matters last week with the announcement that it was setting pay increases for career federal employees below what Congress was seeking. 
An Oct. 8 Justice Department memorandum explaining how the bonuses will be distributed within the department says that awards for political appointees "will be limited to truly outstanding performance that contributes directly to achieving the president's and the attorney general's national goals and objectives." 
For the first time in eight years, cabinet-level officials and agency chiefs have been authorized to approve annual awards of up to $10,000 -- and possibly more -- for the influential senior attorneys, policy advisers, confidential assistants and other appointees who are brought onto their political staffs. Awards can total $25,000 -- or higher with approval from the White House. Senior political appointees typically earn from $115,000 to $140,000 a year.
Mr. Card said in a previously undisclosed March 29 memorandum to cabinet secretaries and agency chiefs that he wanted to reward "substantial work achievements that go well beyond the performance of routine duties."
"Political employees should be judged and rewarded in the same manner as career employees," the memorandum said. 
Mr. Bush's aides say the White House policy shift reflects the administration's emphasis on a "results-oriented government," rewarding excellence and productivity by all federal employees.
Critics, however, say they see the potential for abuse.
"I think it's a dangerous precedent to establish," said Leon E. Panetta, a White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton. "If you start giving cash awards to political appointees, it can be abused by handing out cash because someone's doing a good job politically or just knows the right people." 
In 1994, Mr. Panetta prohibited bonuses to senior political appointees after negative publicity surrounding bonuses given out in the waning days of the administration of President George Bush.
Among more than $100,000 in awards that Attorney General William Barr approved in January 1993, in his final weeks in office, were $7,500 bonuses to two of his closest political aides, who then went on to join him at the Washington law firm where he was a partner. 
Mr. Panetta's restrictions caused years of frustrations for some senior political appointees who were restrained from rewarding political appointees who worked under them.
"I was giving out bonuses for career people and not giving bonuses to political staff who often worked a lot harder than the career people did," a former Justice Department official recalled. "It was frustrating."
But some departments have found ways to skirt the restrictions.
Congressional investigators at the General Accounting Office found last year that several hundred political appointees received performance bonuses of as much as $17,000 from September 1999 to April 2001, apparently in violation of the 1994 policy. In 15 cases, political appointees had to give the money back because the payments violated a separate law banning bonuses to political appointees during a blackout period surrounding presidential elections.
The new White House bonus policy affects political appointees in two categories: noncareer Senior Executive Service officials, who fall just below presidential appointees in rank, and Schedule C employees, who are lower-ranking and lower-paid. They totaled at least 1,935 political appointees as of the most recent federal count.
Although political appointees make up only a tiny fraction of the 1.7 million federal work force, they often wield extensive influence at the highest reaches of government.
In setting the schedules and agendas of cabinet members, guiding political strategy and rendering legal opinions and policy advice, political appointees often play a critical behind-the-scenes role -- sometimes to the consternation of career employees who view them as "short-timers" who are rewarded for their connections.
Schedule C appointees will be eligible for performance awards, while Senior Executive Service appointees will be eligible for cash awards "based on contributions to government economy, efficiency or effectiveness," though not for straight performance bonuses, Mr. Card's memorandum said.
"Due the sensitivity of this parity issue," Mr. Card added in the memorandum, cabinet secretaries and agency chiefs should review all awards for their political appointees.
Mr. Card required top-level review to ensure "that political appointees are not getting any special treatment," a White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said.
Political appointees will continue to be ineligible for cash or time-off awards in the eight months surrounding presidential elections, Mr. Card noted in his memorandum.
Presidential appointees -- cabinet secretaries, agency chiefs and senior deputies whose confirmations must go before the Senate -- are still exempted from bonuses. Congress operates under a separate system, with individual members given discretion to award bonuses to their own staff members.
The White House directed departments to move ahead with the new awards policy on their own, and that has led to a somewhat disjointed implementation. The Justice Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, for instance, have already begun distributing awards of several thousand dollars each to some political appointees in recent weeks, officials said. 
At many other departments, however, officials are still developing the criteria and, in some cases, are planning stricter standards than the White House suggested. The Environmental Protection Agency, for example, plans to require that political appointees be on the job at least a year to be eligible for an award.
At still other departments, officials plan to continue the ban on political bonuses. 
Some career officials and good-government advocates said they were concerned by what apparently was a lack of oversight, direction or public and Congressional discussion surrounding a policy change with broad ramifications.
"If done well, this change can be a smart way to connect performance to rewards," said Max Stier, president of Partnership for Public Service, a nonprofit group that promotes federal civil service work. 
"But obviously you need a system that's going to be viewed as fair, and to do that, you need the data to know what's happening and to know that expectations are being met," Mr. Stier said.
Some career officials said that what the White House saw as a move to reward strong performances may be seen instead as another slap at civil servants.
The Bush administration has moved in recent weeks to place as many as 850,000 government jobs up for competition from private contractors. On Friday, the White House announced that the raise for federal civil servants next year would be 3.1 percent, lower than the 4.1 percent sought by Congress.
The administration's effort to reward political appointees threatens to increase tensions, particularly because civil servants will apparently be competing with appointees for the limited bonus pools, some civil service advocates said. Administration officials said no extra money was planned to pay for the political bonuses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew H. Card Jr. ordered a policy shift on bonuses. (Getty Images)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ETHICS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); TERRORISM (74%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PATRONAGE; BONUSES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ETHICS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); LEON E PANETTA (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CARD, ANDREW H; CLINTON, BILL; LICHTBLAU, ERIC; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



122 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Win One Like the Gipper 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Bill Clinton, the president who used to ape Ronald Reagan, told Democrats yesterday what they must do to take on George W. Bush, the president who now apes Ronald Reagan.
 They've got to get the Gipper swagger. 
 "When people are feeling insecure," a ruddy Mr. Clinton instructed a Democratic Leadership Council meeting at New York University, "they'd rather have someone who is strong and wrong rather than somebody who is weak and right." 
Democrats have been turned into eunuchs by the warlike Bushies. Some are skittering left. Some are skittering right. Most are just cowering behind the barn hiding from Sheriff Bush and his gimlet-eyed, sharp-shootin' sidekick, Karl Rove.
Mr. Clinton, who was always adept at purloining anything he fancied from Republicans, told Democrats flatly that they could not "wilt" on national security or whine about their identity crisis. (Though, being Bill Clinton, he laced his speech with whining about how his presidency was underappreciated.)
"I think you ought to be optimistic," he told the pessimistic Democrats, "and I think you ought to be strong. Of course it is hard."
He broke presidential club etiquette to say that Mr. Bush had things backward. "Al Qaeda should be our top priority," he said. "Iraq is important, but the terrorist network is more of a threat to our security."
He said that the Bush administration had missed 9/11 clues: "There are a couple of thousand flight schools in America. It wouldn't have been that hard to check them all." One of the men who flew an airplane into the World Trade Center had 30 credit cards and a quarter-million-dollar debt, he said, and Mohamed Atta had 12 addresses. Those were signs they were "up to no good."
(Though, being Bill Clinton, he didn't mention that his preoccupation with the Monica threat to his future might have diluted his focus on the Qaeda threat to our future.) 
The D.L.C. was on board with him. Al From, the head of the group, and Bruce Reed, the former Clinton White House policy chief, put out a memo on Monday that pretty much suggested that Democrats become an annex of the Republican Party.
Running away from Nancy Pelosi and jumping into Lynne Cheney's lap, the memo warned that if Democrats continue to come across as counterculture wimps on terrorism, they are doomed.
"Close the cultural gap that, left unchecked, will give Republicans back a virtual lock on the Electoral College . . .," Mr. From and Mr. Reed exhorted. "Half that battle is simply respecting the values of mainstream America in the first place. We will never be the party that loves guns most, but we can respect law-abiding citizens' rights to own them. We will never be the pro-life party, but we can show that we want abortion to be rare as well as legal."
Why not push for Clarence Thomas as chief justice and declare global warming a hoax? 
When Mr. Clinton was president, his attitude was "Le parti, c'est moi." And even though most of the Democrats he campaigned for in the midterms tanked, Democrats still expect Mr. Clinton to get them out of this horrible fix -- his specialty.
The prince of Harlem is one of the few who can raise money -- even though that role evokes his tatty past, renting out the Lincoln Bedroom, and his tabloid present, raking bucks and hanging with Hollywood stars.
Democrats continue to have an ambivalent relationship with Bill, missing his way with words and votes and the economy, but resentful that he put Terry McAuliffe in charge.
As the Democratic Ken doll John Edwards flew off to Europe to meet with NATO officials -- the CliffsNotes version of foreign policy credentials -- John Kerry tried to shed his Ken-doll skin with a big speech in Cleveland, following his announcement that he's running.
In the Q and A afterward, Mr. Kerry finally came out and said what the timid Democrats have been whispering for months: that the administration cooked up the Iraq crisis to distract everybody from a bad economy and an unpopular domestic agenda.
"They sat down in August and made a conscious decision to bring that up and to dominate the discussion with Iraq," Mr. Kerry said.
As Democratic swagger goes, it was a good start. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (82%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); HIJACKING (70%); AL-QAEDA (70%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (69%); AIRLINES (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); KARL ROVE (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) DOWD, MAUREEN; CLINTON, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KERRY, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



123 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Says Tax Rise Has Helped Balance Current Budget 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the 18.5 percent increase in the city's property tax rate and new budget cuts had balanced the city's budget this fiscal year and put it on track to close about half of its projected $6.4 billion budget gap next year.
 But if the city's budget glass is half full, it is still half empty. Mr. Bloomberg's plan to close the rest of next year's budget gap relies on savings and revenue that would require the cooperation of the state, the federal government and the unions. 
 The tax increase and the budget cuts should leave the city with a surplus of roughly $500 million when this fiscal year ends on June 30. The property tax increase will give the city an additional $1.7 billion next year. And officials say that the mayor is counting on $1.1 billion in departmental savings next year, including some recurring cuts that were put in place this year and some cuts that will need City Council approval.
Together, those measures should fill about $3.3 billion of next year's projected $6.4 billion gap. Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that his estimates of how the city's economy would perform in the rest of this year, and how much money the city would therefore collect in taxes, were "on the realistic but conservative side." If they proved conservative, the city could end the year with an even larger budget surplus.
But the projected gap of more than $3 billion that remains in the fiscal year beginning July 1 is still formidable, and many of the mayor's proposals for closing it are beyond the city's control. It was the city's dependence on outside sources -- especially on Albany -- that factored into Standard & Poor's decision last week to change its assessment of the city's fiscal outlook to negative from stable.
To raise $1 billion -- and close a third of the remaining gap -- the mayor wants to tax commuters who live outside the city. His plan calls for lowering the income tax on city residents but charging the same rate to commuters. But Gov. George E. Pataki and Republicans in the State Senate, whose approval would be needed to enact the tax change, have so far said that they do not support the plan. 
The mayor has been asked several times recently whether he will raise the personal income tax on city residents if Albany formally rejects his proposal on the commuter tax. He usually replies indirectly, saying only that the law requires him to balance the budget.
Asked yesterday at a news conference at Federal Hall in Lower Manhattan whether he would consider a temporary surcharge on the income tax on city residents, Mr. Bloomberg said: "Well I think that everybody would like to be able to look the public in the eye and say we're cutting taxes. In boom times, that's possible."
Speaking earlier yesterday at an awards breakfast, the mayor told diners, "I can guarantee that everyone in this room is going to have to dig deeper into their pockets because we are going to have to tax everybody more." Aides said later that he was referring to the property tax increase and possibly the commuter tax. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



124 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Tension Mounts Between United and Machinists 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG with STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Executives and union leaders of United Airlines stepped up their pressure on United's mechanics today, seeking their approval of a $700 million package of wage and benefit concessions that the airline says could help it avoid bankruptcy court.
 The mechanics' vote is scheduled for Thursday, and so much hostility toward management runs through the shop floors at United that many mechanics say the outcome is uncertain. If the mechanics reverse course from their vote a week ago and approve the concessions, many say, it will be by only a narrow margin. 
 United Airlines also announced plans today to lay off 220 pilots in early January and 132 in early February, reducing the total to about 8,250, and to cut senior management ranks by 18 percent, to 36 senior managers. Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive, said that the remaining managers would take an average annual pay cut of 11 percent over the airline's planned five-and-a-half year recovery period and would forgo merit and incentive bonuses this year. The management savings would total more than $60 million, he said. 
Those announcements came as Mr. Tilton ratcheted up his own participation in the campaign to sway the votes of the mechanics. He signed a letter sent to every mechanic and then flew from United's headquarters here to San Francisco for meetings tonight and on Wednesday with workers at the airline's largest maintenance center -- and the one with the most militant machinists.
An agreement by the mechanics to take the concessions would give United, the nation's second-largest airline and a unit of the UAL Corporation, the final piece of a business plan it has presented to the federal government in an effort get $1.8 billion in federal loan guarantees. Rejection of the concessions would scuttle that plan and almost certainly any hope of getting the loan guarantees, possibly forcing United to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Last Wednesday, more than half of the airline's 13,000 mechanics turned out for a vote, and 57 percent of them rejected the wage and benefit concessions. After making some revisions on Sunday night to the concession package, the airline and union officials organized another vote for Thursday. There is now immense pressure for the mechanics -- from executives, from the union leaders, from pilots and flight attendants -- to reverse their earlier decision. 
Many mechanics are wary. 
"I've got the fear in me that they'll file for Chapter 11 no matter what we do," said Joe Schwirian, a mechanic for 17 years in San Francisco who voted against the concessions the first time. "I think it's in their game plan to do that. They gain too much from filing for Chapter 11 -- they can close bases or do other things to skirt the contract."
But Mr. Schwirian's car-pool colleague, Charlie Lincoln, a lead mechanic and shop steward, had a different take on the situation. "My vote was a 'yes' originally," he said, "because what bankruptcy means to us contractually is not a good thing. The membership who voted 'no' is just angry at the company. They're voting out of anger and not knowing the facts."
That anger -- present even among many mechanics who voted for the concessions -- burns as hot as the engines that these workers maintain. 
It is anger at the fact that they agreed in 1994 to a deep wage cut with no raises for six years, in exchange for stock options that are relatively worthless today. It is anger arising from what they call wasteful management decisions, like United's recently failed attempt to buy US Airways, and executive compensation, like the $3 million signing bonus Mr. Tilton received in September. And it is anger raised by the steady prodding of a rival union -- the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association -- that has repeatedly tried to take over representation of the workers.
In fact, many mechanics say the vote last Wednesday was as much an expression of dissatisfaction toward their current union -- the International Association of Machinists -- as it was a slap at United's management.
"I am not a union hater but they give us no information," said Kenneth Epps, a 43-year-old turbine mechanic in San Francisco who said he planned to vote against concessions on Thursday. "A lot of mechanics don't trust our employer and a lot of folks don't trust the union. Voting no is a no vote to the union and a no vote to the company."
United executives tried to sweeten the concession package by agreeing on Sunday to slightly alter a measure on unpaid vacation days, as well as promising to try to resolve workplace issues. 
Conditions that have made mechanics irate include the starting times of swing shifts, the outsourcing of work to other companies and what the disgruntled call the ineptitude of floor supervisors and middle management. Many mechanics have long demanded that a system be put in place where they can voice their complaints.
"Part of it is the machinists tend to have more of a conflict with management than the other unions," said John W. Budd, a professor of industrial relations at the University of Minnesota. "The pilots are up in the air; the flight attendants are up in the air. They can do what needs to be done. But the machinists are on the ground. There's a huge potential for management to be looking over their shoulder."
The relationship that the mechanics have with their supervisors varies widely by workplace. This was indicated by the radically different ways that votes turned out last week at some of the largest bases. In San Francisco and in Indianapolis, the second-largest site in number of mechanics, workers voted by almost 2-to-1 to reject the concessions. At Denver, workers voted by 57 percent in favor of the concessions.
"I'm cautiously optimistic that this will pass," said Steve Adams, secretary-treasurer of the Denver local, which has about 1,000 members eligible to vote. "But they are going to bellyache all the way to the ballot box."
Some mechanics and union officials who support the concessions say the outcome on Thursday could mirror what took place at US Airways this fall. That airline, which filed for bankruptcy in August, had asked the machinists for further concessions, which the leaders agreed to but the membership rejected by 57 percent in a vote on Aug. 28. Three weeks later, the union held a second vote after David N. Siegel, the chief executive of US Airways, said that the airline was in worse shape than he had previously indicated, and the concessions were passed.
But what is now happening at US Airways could also encourage the United mechanics to take a firm stand against concessions. Just three days before the first vote at United, US Airways announced further layoffs of 2,500 workers, with 450 of those coming from the ranks of the mechanics. That raised the ire of mechanics at United, several of them said.
The United mechanics also still talk about the business decisions that management made that led to the company's bleeding cash: the attempted buyout of US Airways that was blocked in July 2001 by the Justice Department; the failed attempt to create a business jet division called Avolar; and the seeming lack of a coherent business plan for coping with the economic downturn of the last couple years. 
What is more, the labor groups were promised by Gerald M. Greenwald, the UAL chief executive who oversaw the employee stock option plan from 1995 to 1999, that they would never work without a contract again. That promise turned out to be hollow, and the mechanics watched in frustration as their contract expired in July 2000 without a deal. 
"They feel that since July of 2000, they have been disrespected and abused," said Scotty Ford, president of the union local that represents United mechanics. "I have got all the people who work for me working the properties, trying to impress on them the seriousness of the situation, trying to convince them that the need is real."
It was not until March 2002 that the mechanics got a contract granting them their first raise since 1994. Mechanics also have other bitter memories from the autumn of 2000, when United accused the machinists of staging a work slowdown and got a court injunction against them.
And in the middle of negotiations for that contract, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association tried to take over representation of the mechanics. Many United mechanics are now lobbying in favor of that union, which argues that it more ably represents mechanics because it does not have other labor groups as members. 
The Aircraft Mechanics have set up a phone message hot line to United workers saying: "It is not our labor costs behind the crisis at United or the airlines. It is greed and arrogant management. If we give concessions today, they will demand more blood tomorrow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A member of United Airlines maintenance crew works on a plane in San Francisco. United's mechanics are to vote on proposed wage and benefit concessions tomorrow. (Peter DaSilva) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (79%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; FRINGE BENEFITS; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PILOTS; BONUSES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (59%); AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (59%) UNITED AIRLINES; INTERNATIONAL ASSN OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS; AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (88%) WONG, EDWARD; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; TILTON, GLENN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002 



125 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Canada's 5 Big Banks Are a Study in Contrast 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Customers of Canada's five big banks in other words, most Canadians -- tend to view the institutions as interchangeable monoliths, with branches from coast to coast selling a full array of corporate and personal financial services and earning ever-rising profits.
 Yet the contrasts among the banks -- in descending order of size they are Royal Bank of Canada, Scotiabank, the TD Bank Financial Group, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Bank of Montreal -- have seldom been starker than over the last two weeks as they have reported results for the fiscal year ended Oct. 31. 
 Much of that contrast arises from their divergent approaches to a common question: how to grow beyond Canada's borders, especially in the United States.
"It used to be that our banks were the department stores of the financial services business," said Raymond Protti, president of the Canadian Bankers Association. But, he added, "going forward, we're going to see some marked differentiation in the strategies." 
Royal Bank reported record earnings equivalent to $1.86 billion for fiscal 2002. "We performed strongly this year against almost all of our objectives," Gordon M. Nixon, the group's chief executive, told the bank's shareholders. Accordingly, Royal Bank's stock rose 16 percent during the period, while bank stocks as a group have been stagnant.
On the other hand, TD reported the first annual loss in its history, and Canadian Imperial's profits shrank by almost two-thirds. "It has been a disappointing year for our shareholders," A. Charles Baillie, TD's chairman and chief executive, acknowledged in announcing the loss. Mr. Baillie, who announced in October that he would retire as chief executive on Dec. 20, said last week that he would also give up the chairmanship next April, a year early.
Bank of Montreal's earnings for the last financial year, at $910 million, were roughly unchanged from the year before. Scotiabank, the last of the five to report, said on Tuesday that its earnings fell 17 percent, to $1.15 billion, after writing down its investment in Argentina by $345 million.
Some two-thirds of all Canadians have accounts at one or more of the big five banks, according to recent surveys by the government, and only about 29 percent of people say they comparison shop for banking services. "For consumers, all mortgages and personal loans seem alike," said Martin Pacheco, head of consumer education at the government's Financial Consumer Agency, which conducted the surveys.
The trouble for the banks is that the home market is saturated, and the outlook for domestic earnings growth is lackluster.
Bank of Montreal said in a recent study that "profit margins are lower in Canada than in many other countries, suggesting that there are more profitable places to expand." According to Sachin Kewalramani, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York, the Canadian banks as a group face a period of "modest" earnings growth, with slower loan growth, rising loan write-downs and "challenging" capital markets.
To find better opportunities, the banks have increasingly looked south. Mr. Protti said that the American market was "the primary engine of growth" for Canadian banks. 
"This integration of North America is the new economic reality in which all of us -- businesses, government and consumers -- must operate," he said. Since 1996, the five big Canadian banks have spent about $8.33 billion on acquisitions south of the border. But they have chosen different businesses as targets.
Two once-promising avenues that TD, once known as the Toronto Dominion Bank, pursued in the late 1990's have brought it grief in recent years. The bank became a major player in the discount stock brokerage business when it bought Waterhouse in 1996; stock trading is no longer nearly so lucrative.
It was also among the most active lenders to the telecommunications, technology and electric power industries. Write-downs on loans to these sectors soared to $188 billion in fiscal 2002 from $390 million a year earlier and were the driving force behind the bank's loss.
Canadian Imperial's thrust into the United States has been through its investment banking arm, CIBC World Markets, and through an ambitious but costly venture to provide electronic consumer banking services in partnership with supermarket chains. The bank said last month that it would close the venture, known as Amicus, and take a $146 million charge.
Royal Bank's expansion strategy has focused on more stable retail banking businesses. Its recent acquisitions in the United States, chiefly Centura Banks of Rocky Mount, N.C., in mid-2001, yielded 21 percent of Royal's total revenue and some $146 million in profit for the latest fiscal year. The Centura unit in turn gained a toehold in Florida in August by paying $150 million for Admiralty Bancorp of Palm Beach Gardens.
The banks say that a chief stumbling block to continued expansion in the United States has been Canadian officials' refusal to allow them to grow any bigger at home through mergers or acquisitions. "The big issue is one of scale," Mr. Protti said.
In 1998, the government blocked two deals -- a bid by Royal Bank bid to take over the Bank of Montreal and a proposed merger of Canadian Imperial and TD. According to reports in the Canadian news media, a more recent proposal to combine Scotiabank and Bank of Montreal was blocked by the prime minister, Jean Chretien.
Many Canadians fear that if the five banks, which are among the country's largest businesses of any kind, are allowed to become any bigger at home, they they will have free rein to raise service fees, close branches and lay off workers. One bank analyst said, "The politicians need to be convinced that there's some advantage to letting the banks merge."
Hoping to shift public opinion their way, the chief executives of all five major banks appeared before a parliamentary committee in Ottawa last month to argue in favor of allowing domestic mergers.
Mr. Nixon of Royal Bank told the committee that "increased scale is important for the continued health and development of our industry, both in Canada and increasingly in a North American market."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Coming Back"After losing value over the summer the stock value's of Canada's major banks have been increasing recently. Graph tracks Toronto Stock Exchange banks and trusts index since Jan.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (60%) BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (95%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (91%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (91%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA; SCOTIABANK; TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP; CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE; BANK OF MONTREAL 

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (95%); BMO (NYSE) (95%); BNS (TSX) (91%); BNS (NYSE) (91%); CM (TSX) (91%); CM (NYSE) (91%); RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); TD (TSX) (72%); TD (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (95%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



126 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: The Holiday Card, Set in Motion 

BYLINE:  By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
THE holiday movie season is approaching, and Keith Whitmer's production studio is shifting into high gear. Mr. Whitmer sits for hours in a room in Manhattan viewing scenes accumulated from a year of shooting, then more hours putting a movie together. 
 Mr. Whitmer is not an independent filmmaker. He is burning video CD's in his apartment to send as Christmas gifts to far-flung relatives -- his parents and sister in California and his brother in Atlanta. 
 And with December's arrival, Mr. Whitmer and his wife, Jayne, are in production overdrive. Mr. Whitmer tackles the video side of things, while Ms. Whitmer takes on the stills. More often than not, the production centers on their 3-year-old daughter, Olivia. 
 The Whitmers are part of a growing contingent of audiovisual hobbyists for whom the holidays simply are not the holidays unless the memories of the year have been fully digitized and the holidays themselves have been shot and reshot, edited and re-edited, viewed and reviewed, posted to a Web site or sent out as e-mail or CD-ROM's or even DVD's to relatives and friends. 
 The Consumer Electronics Association, a trade group, estimates that nearly nine million digital cameras will be sold in 2002 in the United States, a 62 percent increase over last year. The group predicts that some 2.3 million digital camcorders will be sold this year, a 35 percent rise from 2001.
 Not everyone will use those gadgets to provide the raw material for a digital production to mark the holidays or other event. But those that do will often put a tremendous amount of work into their projects, sometimes weeks spent viewing, sifting, editing, and choosing and adding music and other effects. Yet many amateur film producers welcome the distraction from other demands. 
 And it's nothing like it used to be. As a teenager, Mr. Whitmer made movies with 8-millimeter film. "It was quite a long process," he said. "The equipment was very bulky -- splicing, taping, winding, setting up the projector and the screen." Mr. Whitmer even recorded music on a portable cassette player and tried to synchronize the recording to the film. 
 "It took forever to get the timing right," he said. "Now I do all of this on the Mac and burn a CD, and let everyone else use their computer as projector and screen." 
 It isn't usually until after he has finished that Mr. Whitmer, 45, who is creative director of a small advertising firm in Manhattan that he and Ms. Whitmer own, notices the amount of time he spent. "It goes by quickly because you're so focused on it," he said. 
 Besides, Mr. Whitmer said, it hardly feels like work. "It's more a labor of love, because you have the people in mind that you're making it for," he said.
 Mr. Whitmer's theme for Christmas 2001 was the Terrible Twos. The film was about five minutes long, "an eternity when you are talking about a video on a computer screen," he said. The five minutes were culled from about four hours of tape. 
 For the sequel this year, Mr. Whitmer is still in the concept stage, but he is considering using David Bowie's song "Changes" to produce a short piece about how much Olivia has changed in a year and how much life has changed as a response to her needs. 
 Ms. Whitmer, 42, provides the analog reinforcement, shooting stills with her film camera. Once the holidays approach, she goes from one roll a week to two. She scans the pictures, crops them, prints them out and makes photo albums to send as gifts. 
 The time spent on holiday productions is certainly impressive. 
 "People can't possibly know how much work goes into it," Mr. Whitmer said. "It's like sending a hand-knitted sweater." 
 And just as one gift sweater can give the knitter quite a reputation among family and friends, so too can one digital production cause expectations to rise. That's what happened to Ed Seidel, an associate curator at the Monterey Bay Aquarium in Monterey, Calif., who now finds himself in something of an expectation rut. 
 Ever since he made a digital slide show for his uncle's 60th birthday, it is expected that he will do the same for other major birthdays -- his grandmother's 90th, his brother's 35th. 
 Mr. Seidel, 36, also makes frequent short videos and posts them on the family's Web site. During the holidays, the site receives particularly close attention, especially if Mr. Seidel and his wife cannot be with family members on the East Coast. In that case, Mr. Seidel updates the site almost daily for several days. 
 Two years ago, when he was unable to be with his family in Maine for Christmas, he created a video postcard from California of his family sending greetings and posted it on a Web site. "The whole Maine family, all 25 of them, sat around the computer and watched it over and over," he said. 
 Mr. Seidel knows that producing digital movies and maintaining the family Web site can be time-consuming, so he has learned to save time by using his digital camera, which is limited to 30-second video segments. "It's already compressed," he said, "which makes it easy to put it up on the Web and share with people." Unlike Mr. Whitmer, Mr. Seidel didn't catch the videography bug until he bought an Apple iMac computer in 1999 and saw that the tools made the job enticingly easy -- time-consuming but enjoyable. 
 Mr. Seidel has found himself cast in the role of digital producer for his entire extended family, who often provide him with raw material, like old photos and slides. "They don't know how to scan, but they do know how to go through old drawers," he said. 
 In addition to the videos, Mr. Seidel usually makes holiday cards using Photoshop and other programs, then sends them out by postal mail. 
 Charlie Couch also sees his holidays through the lens of his digital camera. Mr. Couch, a 39-year-old sales manager at AT&T Wireless in San Francisco, has always enjoyed taking pictures, but when he started using a digital camera nearly three years ago, he became a devotee. With the holidays approaching, he is seldom without the camera. 
 For Mr. Couch, the holiday photography season starts around Halloween and reaches a height at Christmas, which he refers to as the Super Bowl of his photo year. By his calculation, he already has tens of thousands of digital images stored in his computer, many of them centered on holidays. 
 Mr. Couch said the technology had changed his habits considerably. He has just begun shooting pictures from a wireless phone and sending them by e-mail. "There is something about capturing an image and being able to tell a story with a fixed image," he said. 
 This year for the first time, Mr. Couch and his wife are e-mailing digital Christmas cards, featuring a shot of their two children.
 Mr. Couch waxes particularly sentimental when talking about the moments he captures electronically. "In today's economy and today's times you can lose touch with the important things in life," he said, "and this brings me back to that." 
 This holiday season is an especially poignant one for Sharon Emerson, a 33-year-old studio director for a small company in Chicago that makes games for the Web. 
 She is currently hard at work making a CD -- her first such gift -- for relatives that will largely be a memorial to her Latvian grandmother, who died last year. For the CD, which is structured as a large family tree, Ms. Emerson has gathered old 8-millimeter film that includes movies of her father's prom in 1958 and her parents' wedding in 1963, and a video tour that Ms. Emerson's grandmother gave of her apartment before she died. "I especially loved her pink bathroom," Ms. Emerson said. 
 Ms. Emerson's project began as a Web site, but when the videos began to stack up, she switched media. The CD will also include her grandmother's favorite recipes and digital versions of old letters. 
 Like others, Ms. Emerson finds that the technology has changed her ideas about what constitutes the perfect gift. "Ten years ago, I just would have distributed cool photos I dug up of my family, or created elaborate frames for pictures," she said. "Now, with a CD burner, I can wrap everything up in a nice package." 
 It was the relative ease with which the old videotape can be transferred to a CD that motivated her. "I've been sitting on those 8-millimeter films for years," she said. "So technology has absolutely allowed me to create this gift for my family." 
 Ms. Emerson plans to send the CD out to five family members. "I don't want just a map of names," Ms. Emerson said. "I want something where generations beyond me can get a feel for who these people are." 
 Even the most fanatic of holiday filmmakers recognize that there are limits. The Whitmers are on a campaign to reduce the stress in their lives, which means that Mr. Whitmer might not finish the movie in time to send it as a Christmas gift. In that case, he said, refusing to fret, he will make the best of it: he will end the movie with holiday scenes and send it out in time for Groundhog Day. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: DIGITIZED -- Sharon Emerson of Chicago is putting photos, letters and movies on a CD that will honor her late grandmother. (Scott Olson for The New York Times); LABOR OF LOVE -- Keith Whitmer of Manhattan, with his wife, Jayne, and daughter, Olivia, spends hours creating a holiday CD. Below, a digital card from the Couches of San Francisco. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. G10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (67%); MUSIC (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



127 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words

PERSON: Willa Appel 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
The Organizer in a Mission to Salvage Lives

BYLINE:  By JOYCE WADLER

 BODY:
TIME was when New York researchers in structural biology had to travel across the country for access to the most sophisticated equipment, and the city was in danger of losing some of its top researchers.
 The New York Structural Biology Center, which opens Dec. 16, is already changing that. It has six of the latest generation of enormous nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometers, the machines that probe the structure of the body's proteins, making it the most advanced laboratory of its kind in the country. 
 What's also significant, according to Willa Appel, the center's chief operating officer, is the unprecedented coming together of nine universities and research hospitals, which pooled their economic resources to create the center. 
"It's not just a time share," she says, in her temporary office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. "Researchers who don't know each other are finding that they are working on aspects of similar problems. We have all sorts of collaborations that are already coming out of this." 
Another topic: Should we refer to you as Dr., doctor?
A horrified look.
"No, no!" and "It's so pretentious" and "I'm not an M.D.; my degree is in anthropology," and again, "No!" 
Ms. Appel's skills are organizational. She came to this project from the New York City Partnership Policy Center, where she had been involved in promoting the economic sector. She declines to give her age. She has been an editorial writer at Newsday, a college professor, an author. For her 1983 book, "Cults in America," she listened to 1,000 hours of tapes recorded by the Rev. Jim Jones, including the night when more than 900 followers took cyanide, many by force. Tough stuff, she says; you could hear them screaming.
She's a witty woman, but funny comments are often followed by modifiers or disclaimers. Glib is nothing one wants to appear when fund-raising for a serious research organization.
She is not enchanted to know that a reporter knows she sent a singing telegram to Warren M. Anderson, back in 1985, when he was the Republican majority leader of the State Senate and she was the executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council. It was sung to the tune of "Button Up Your Overcoat." "Button up those housing funds. Call a session now. Float some Battery bonds, Warren, you know how." 
She is also discreet. Her work at the biology center has ranged from overseeing construction at the site on the City College campus at 133rd Street and Convent Avenue to working with lawyers from nine institutions. If there have been problems getting those nine institutions to play nicely together, Ms. Appel is not saying. 
She does say that she believes the research will change medicine and how people are treated, that it will lead to drugs that will prevent the development of cancer and Alzheimer's, which she calls "my particular bugaboo." 
Why Alzheimer's?
"Because my mother had it," Ms. Appel says. 
Then she speeds away from the subject so quickly that you see skid marks hanging in the air.
MS. APPEL grew up in Roosevelt, N.J. Her mother, Sophie, was a science teacher, her father, Benjamin, a novelist whose work included a book about the rise of a labor union, and later, one about the corruption of labor unions. 
"That won him a lot of friends," Ms. Appel says, under her breath.
Huh?
"Nothing."
She graduated from the University of Pittsburgh, magna cum laude, with a double major in anthropology and fine arts; taught at Sarah Lawrence College and Bard, with the notion that teaching would give her time to paint. Then she decided academia wasn't for her. 
The trigger?
"When I was at one of the colleges. . . ."
What? You're not going to say which one?
"The faculty met every month to discuss an issue. The issue was whether students should get letter grades. And every week it turned into a rip-roaring debate of the Weimar Republic." The softening addendum. "It stuck in my head as what was sort of charming about academia."
Let's talk about Mom. 
No go. Ms. Appel changes the subject twice.
"This is like a bad shrink session," she says.
So how did she know when her mother was sick?
"She couldn't get a meal together," Ms. Appel says finally. "She could make a meal for a million people. My father's relatives always came at the last minute, and in two hours she had pies baked, everything done."
Ultimately her mother had to go into a home, where Ms. Appel did volunteer work. She saw people who seemed "totally gone."
"There were people who couldn't speak, who were shouting guttural sounds," Ms. Appel says. She makes a clawing motion with her hand. "They would strike out like this. I was afraid to go near them. There was a woman, tied to a bed, we had to turn over. I was doing my idea of helping, patting her, making soothing noises. And at one point she grabbed my hand and she laid the most delicate kiss on it. And I realized that" -- a long pause here, for Ms. Appel is now emotional -- "I saw that there seemed to be people who are or seem to be totally gone who are not." 
And, on the researchers who will be focusing on Alzheimer's:
"I hope they'll hurry up and be successful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: WILLA APPEL (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECTROSCOPES & SPECTROMETERS (78%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CANCER (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

JAMES L JONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



128 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: For One Day, Trades Line The Pockets Of Charities 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
At CIBC World Markets, the day started with an order to buy 500,000 shares of Microsoft at a cost of a little more than $28 million.
 The commission that trade generated -- the firm does not disclose its commission on individual sales -- and all the firm's other commissions yesterday will go to charities devoted to children. 
 Last year, the same philanthropic effort, known as Miracle Day, generated $16 million worldwide. When the trades are settled, this year's effort is expected to have raised even more, although the firm would not provide any estimates. 
"It's electric," said Eric Ribner, executive director of institutional sales at CIBC, part of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. "It's very exciting to be doing so much volume."
Wall Street has had a tough year. The markets have been brutal, layoffs continue, and the scandals have heightened investors' skepticism. "People from Wall Street get a bad rap, especially over the last few years," said Gregory Fortunoff, a partner in First New York Securities, a hedge fund. "This gives us a chance to show a different side."
Mr. Fortunoff said his firm had directed all its trades yesterday through CIBC, with half the commissions earmarked for the All Stars Project, a nonprofit group based in New York that runs after-school and other programs for children. CIBC will distribute the other half to the 675 nonprofit organizations registered to participate in Miracle Day; it picks up all administrative costs.
All Stars, which has a $5.3 million budget for this fiscal year, received about $37,000 last year from Miracle Day, or roughly 4 percent of its annual corporate contributions. "It's very significant for us," said Gabrielle Kurlander, president of All Stars.
This year, she said, the event had even more significance. "Sometimes when the going gets tough, corporate philanthropy will be the first type of philanthropy to be cut," she said. "In this terrible economic climate, when earnings are down and people are being laid off, that's when you really see what people are made of."
Miracle Day started in 1984 in Canada at the suggestion of a broker in a CIBC branch, and it raised 123,891 Canadian dollars. Since then, it has raised $60 million. 
This year, it got a plug from Stanley Druckenmiller, founder of Duquesne Capital Management and a former associate of George Soros, during a breakfast held by the Robin Hood Foundation, the philanthropy whose events are star-studded affairs that raise millions.
Tut-tutting, Mr. Druckenmiller noted that $3 million of the $12 million that CIBC raised in the United States last year came from trading in New York. "Are you kidding me -- or as Paul Jones would say, 'Come on!' " he said, mimicking the Southern accent of Robin Hood's founder, the hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones II. "We didn't even beat Boston. And don't forget to earmark your commissions for Robin Hood!"
Wall Street has learned that Miracle Day is painless philanthropy, too. "It's a great opportunity to take an activity we would be doing anyway on this day, which is trading securities, and do it in a way that benefits our clients and, ultimately, a lot of kids," said David F. Lamere, vice chairman of the Mellon Financial Corporation and president of its private wealth management group.
Mellon planned to do more trading with CIBC than usual, earmarking half of its commissions for Citizen Schools, a youth services organization based in Boston. "CIBC has come up with a very creative approach to get a group of people across the financial industry, who are on some days fierce competitors, behind an easy cause to support," Mr. Lamere said.
This year, CIBC's competitors agreed to "give up" to Miracle Day the commissions generated on any trades CIBC could not handle. "And that," said Peter Feinberg, a CIBC managing director and chairman of Miracle Day, "is a real miracle." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES COMPENSATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAYOFFS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (85%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (70%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: CM (TSX) (70%); CM (NYSE) (70%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%) SIC6029 OTHER COMMERCIAL BANKS; SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (51%); STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



129 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Food Emergency in North Korea Worsens as Donations Dwindle 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Just as the United Nations begins an emergency appeal for $201 million to help feed almost one-third of North Korea's 22 million people this winter, donor fatigue has turned to donor anger.
 Last summer, donor fatigue and competition with Afghanistan caused donations for North Korea to dwindle to 70 percent of planned levels, forcing the United Nations' World Food Program to cut off about three million people from food rations. 
 As North Korea's food emergency enters its eighth year, donors agree that the nation's chronically skimpy crops are not a result of bad weather but of gross economic mismanagement by Communist officials. On top of that, the top three donor nations -- Japan, South Korea and the United States -- have had their gifts of food repaid with vitriol from the North Korean state news media. 
Then, two months ago, North Korea admitted to embarking on an expensive nuclear bomb program in the mid-1990's, at the same time that an estimated two million people, or 10 percent of the population, were starving to death. In recent weeks, after North Korea admitted to trying to make nuclear bombs and to kidnapping Japanese citizens, food donors pulled back.
Last week, after a Japanese charity shipped dog biscuits and old rice to help feed people in North Korea, Shintaro Ishihara, Tokyo's powerful governor, objected, saying, "What nerve they have, sending food while Japanese people are really angry over the abductions."
Although the food program has trimmed its annual North Korea appeal by 16 percent for 2003, to 512,000 tons, pledges total only 33,000, all from Europe, said James Morris, the program's executive director.
Rick Corsino, the program's country director for North Korea, said that unless more food entered the pipeline soon, "hundreds of thousands more face ration cuts early in 2003." City dwellers devote 85 percent of their incomes to food, while the government supplies only 45 percent of minimum caloric needs, according to the food program.
Japan, which donated 500,000 tons of food as recently as 2000, told Mr. Morris when he visited here two weeks ago that it had no plans to send more food aid. The United States, currently the largest donor, has said it met its pledge of 155,000 tons for 2002 and will not send additional shipments this month to keep feeding stations open. Washington is expected to renew its donations next year, but Bush administration officials have not said at what level.
Administration officials have said that relief aid will not be tied to North Korea's compliance with demands that it dismantle its nuclear bomb program. But they have demanded proof that the food reaches civilians, and not soldiers.
Indeed, verification of food deliveries is now a major issue among human rights activists, an increasingly powerful group in setting policies on North Korea in Japan, Europe and the United States.
"North Korea plays a blackmail game: feed me or I will blow up the world," said Norbert Vollertsen, a German doctor who was expelled from North Korea two years ago. "There are weapons inspectors for Iraq. Why not food inspectors for North Korea?"
North Korean defectors say food aid is routinely diverted to soldiers, government officials and families deemed loyal to the government. About 20 percent of North Korea's 206 counties are closed to outside monitors. To further hinder monitoring, North Korea generally refuses to give visas to Korean-speaking inspectors from overseas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); STARVATION (78%); FAMINE (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PET FOODS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); TRENDS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) FOREIGN AID; FAMINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (57%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



130 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Kerrey Debates His Students on Changing Iraqi Regime 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, a group of students at New School University marched angrily into the offices of the university's president, Bob Kerrey, to demand that he address their complaints about his public call for regime change in Iraq.
 Yesterday, they got what they asked for. Hundreds of students and faculty members packed a university auditorium on West 12th Street to hear a raucous, often bitter debate in which Mr. Kerrey was accused of betraying the New School's pacifist legacy and miring the school in controversy. As the hourlong debate -- in which Mr. Kerrey and a former United Nations official faced two students -- came to an end early yesterday afternoon, a group of students held up signs calling for Mr. Kerrey to resign. 
 Mr. Kerrey, who became the school's president early last year after more than a decade as a United States senator, refused. During an eight-minute opening statement and a lengthy question-and-answer session, he vigorously defended his views and his right to make them public, saying it was consistent with the university's history of openness and debate. In a line that drew loud applause, Mr. Kerrey said he did not want "to set a precedent so this university begins to be led, like so many other universities in America, by presidents who are so concerned by fund-raising needs that they have no public opinion on anything that matters" to ordinary people.
Mr. Kerrey's student critics demanded a public forum in which they could challenge him after learning that he had joined a well-connected group of current and former political figures called the Committee for the Liberation of Iraq. He has also written and spoken about his support for ousting Saddam Hussein.
At times, the debate bordered on chaos, with students groaning and shouting others down after questioners maligned Mr. Kerrey's ethics or changed the subject to his controversial record as a soldier in Vietnam.
"I was a little upset with how the forum turned into a Kerrey-bashing session," Joanne Strasser, a first-year graduate student in liberal studies, said after the debate ended.
Mr. Kerrey maintained his composure throughout, although he seemed angry several times and once chastised one of the two students debating him as being too closed-minded.
Many campuses across the country have become hotbeds of protest against a war with Iraq recently. But the New School's students have been especially active, in part because of Mr. Kerrey's public stand. 
To Mr. Kerrey's critics, his advocacy for military engagement runs directly against the New School's tradition of pacifism and left-wing social theory. The university's graduate school became a refuge for European intellectuals during the Nazi era, including Hannah Arendt and Claude Levi-Strauss.
"It is unacceptable to me that you use the name of this school" in advocating for military action to oust Mr. Hussein, said Colin Walsh, one of the two students who debated Mr. Kerrey. He added that the school's founding scholars would have been outraged by Mr. Kerrey's position.
Another student argued that Mr. Kerrey and his peers on the Committee for the Liberation of Iraq were more interested in securing Iraqi oil reserves and "world domination" than in the suffering of the Iraqi people.
Mustapha Tlili, who sat on Mr. Kerrey's side of the table in the debate and is a fellow at the school's World Policy Institute, objected to the uniformly negative tone of the students' arguments. He said that Mr. Kerrey had played an important role in encouraging dialogue between Muslim figures and the West.
For his part, Mr. Kerrey argued that armed intervention had prevented additional violence from taking place in Bosnia, Cambodia and elsewhere.
Some students tried to link Mr. Kerrey's stand on Iraq to earlier controversies that have clouded his tenure as president. Last year, Mr. Kerrey was heavily criticized for his role in the massacre of a village by a platoon under his command during the Vietnam War.
Mr. Kerrey steered the discussion away from that and other questions about his tenure. But several students and faculty members said they were impressed with his performance.
"I think Kerrey was effective and the students were not," said Anwar Shaikh, a professor in the economics department who said he disagreed with Mr. Kerrey's views on Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Kerrey debated two students yesterday over his call for a new regime in Iraq. Some students called for Mr. Kerrey to resign as president of New School University. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); ETHICS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



131 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Powell Says U.S. Will Increase Military Aid for Colombia 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said today that the United States would increase military assistance to Colombia, asserting that its war on leftist guerrillas and rightist paramilitary groups -- and on their narcotics trafficking -- was part of the Bush administration's campaign against terrorism.
 The aid, more than $500 million a year, would be used for drug eradication, support for military and police forces and renewal of support for Colombian narcotics-interception flights that rely on intelligence from American spy planes. Such flights were suspended last year after a plane carrying missionaries was shot down over Peru. 
 The new aid will put Colombia roughly on a par with Afghanistan and Pakistan as a recipient of American military and antidrug assistance, administration officials said. 
In a one-day trip to this Andean capital city, Secretary Powell met with Colombia's new president, Alvaro Uribe Velez, who was elected last summer after pledging a crackdown on violent groups that rely on drug money for support. Mr. Uribe is also pressing for a more aggressive campaign of eradicating coca fields than his predecessors.
After more than three decades of civil war, various antigovernment groups engaged in the drug trade control most of Colombia's vast expanse of mountains and farm valleys. But rights groups have accused the Colombian military of fighting those forces with too much reliance on rightist military squads organized by landlords.
"We are firmly committed to President Uribe and his new national security strategy," Secretary Powell said. "We are going to work with our Congress to provide additional funding for Colombia."
In all, the United States has spent $1.8 billion on antinarcotics measures and military and law enforcement aid to Colombia since 2000. 
The administration is asking Congress for $537 million in the current fiscal year, up from $411 million last year, according to the ambassador to Colombia, Anne W. Patterson.
In a reflection of the American economic interests here, the requested sum includes nearly $100 million to help secure a 500-mile oil pipeline in eastern Colombia that transports 100,000 barrels a day for Occidental Petroleum of Los Angeles. Guerrilla groups have repeatedly attacked the pipeline.
Next year, the United States will have 60 of its own Special Operations forces and intelligence operatives to help train Colombian forces to guard the pipeline, Ambassador Patterson said. 
Secretary Powell, saying he would seek even more money in the next fiscal year, expressed satisfaction with his visit, which included a tour of narcotics eradication equipment at a military airport here. He said it had given him "ammunition" to persuade skeptics not only in Congress but also within the administration's budget office. "I am very impressed by what I have seen," he said after his tour.
Addressing the issue of terrorism within Colombia, the secretary said it no longer made sense to insist on separating it from the battle against narcotics, because they were linked as threats to democracy. Asked if he worried that America's involvement in Colombia might lead to a Vietnam-like quagmire, the secretary, who fought in Vietnam, said there was no comparison.
"I don't see this in Vietnam terms," he said, adding that Colombia's antigovernment groups should not be "romanticized" as "some sort of charming freedom fighters." He did add, however, that the helicopters being supplied by the United States were "remarkably familiar."
The secretary's visit, though brief, carried symbolism for a region increasingly beset by instability and eager for attention from the United States, which is seen here as preoccupied by its efforts against terrorism elsewhere. Indeed, Secretary Powell was supposed to have visited Colombia last year, but his visit was canceled because of the Sept. 11 attacks. Another visit was canceled earlier this year. 
Colombia's importance for the administration is underscored by its holding of the presidency of the United Nations Security Council, where Washington has sought its support for the campaign against Iraq. 
Secretary Powell said, however, that he had been unable to persuade Mr. Uribe to exempt Americans serving in Colombia from any human rights prosecutions by the International Criminal Court. The Bush administration, which has refused to join the court, has sought such exemptions from countries where Americans are serving.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colin L. Powell with Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe Velez. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); POLITICS (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (66%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (66%) TERRORISM; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (52%)

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (52%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (90%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); URIBE VELEZ, ALVARO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



132 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Boston Church Panel Will Allow Archdiocese to Weigh Bankruptcy 

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
A finance panel of the Archdiocese of Boston voted today to allow the church to file for bankruptcy as a way of dealing with the hundreds of lawsuits it faces over sexual abuse by priests.
 The vote by the 15-member Finance Council, a panel on which Cardinal Bernard H. Law sits that includes mostly lay businessmen, does not mean the archdiocese will definitely declare bankruptcy, a step that would require Vatican approval. But the vote signals a feeling by the church's financial advisers that Chapter 11 bankruptcy would allow the archdiocese to settle the abuse lawsuits as a single group, instead of through a parade of lawsuits involving frustrating settlement negotiations and civil court proceedings. 
 If the archdiocese does declare bankruptcy, it would become the first American Roman Catholic diocese to do so. Legal experts have said they would be stunned by such an action because the Boston Archdiocese is so large it could potentially liquidate assets for payments to abuse victims, which have been estimated to require about $100 million. And some legal experts suggested that the archdiocese could be using the specter of bankruptcy as a way of creating pressure on plaintiffs' lawyers to accept a settlement. 
The archdiocese issued a statement this evening saying that "no final determination to file Chapter 11 has been made at this time." Vatican officials have said that Boston has not yet sought approval.
Lawyers representing more than half of the 450 plaintiffs in the abuse lawsuits had said this week that they would quit settlement negotiations if the archdiocese did not agree to take talk of bankruptcy off the table while negotiations continued.
Tonight, one of the lawyers, Roderick MacLeish Jr., said: "We hope that the archdiocese does not file for bankruptcy. We think it would be cruel if that happens. We think it would be a form of moral bankruptcy. If they do exercise these options, we look forward to Cardinal Law explaining to a bankruptcy judge why he lives in a palatial mansion while our clients lie wounded on the battlefield."
But Mr. MacLeish stopped short of saying that the lawyers would pull out of talks. "We're calling on the cardinal by tomorrow to clarify that he will proceed in good faith in settlement negotiations," he said. "If he does not give those assurances, we will have to reconsider our options."
Donna M. Morrissey, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese, said today: "We believe a mediated resolution would be preferable to seeking Chapter 11 protection and remain hopeful that this process currently under way will be successful. However, we feel it is also necessary to carefully consider the alternative or complementary approach of a Chapter 11 reorganization."
The bankruptcy vote came on a day when many Catholics were feeling fresh torrents of anger over disclosures in more than 2,000 pages of church documents released Tuesday, which detailed how the Boston Archdiocese continually overlooked accusations of abuse against priests and allowed them to stay in ministry.
Most notably, leaders of Voice of the Faithful, an increasingly influential lay group, said today that the group felt so betrayed by what the documents revealed about Cardinal Law's actions that its members were considering calling for his resignation, asking the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops to investigate him, and starting a campaign for people who want to withhold donations from the archdiocese.
"What this shows so clearly is the fact that Cardinal Law and the bishops were perpetrating a huge hoax on faithful Catholics and parishioners," said James E. Post, president of Voice of the Faithful. "No decent Catholic could feel anything but outrage and a sense of still more betrayal."
Voice of the Faithful, which started in February with 40 people in a church basement discussing the clergy sexual abuse crisis and now claims 25,000 members in 40 states, has been careful to avoid stances that leaders felt might unduly antagonize or alienate the archdiocese.
The group, which seeks greater lay involvement in church decisions, has consistently emphasized its desire to establish a working relationship with the archdiocese. And just last week, the group logged what it considered a small success when its leaders were granted a two-hour meeting with Cardinal Law. At the time, Dr. Post, a business professor at Boston University, said there were "hopeful signs of progress."
But today, Dr. Post said that the documents, containing complaints, memorandums and letters about eight priests accused of abuse, were a "major setback to the development of any relationship between Voice of the Faithful and Cardinal Law." He added, "Relationships are based in trust, and these disclosures seriously undermine any basis for trusting the archbishop."
He and other Voice of the Faithful leaders, who read many of the documents themselves, said the disclosures were inconsistent with some of the things the cardinal told the group in the meeting, particularly the disclosures that priests accused of improper conduct continued to be kept in ministry after 1993, when a high-profile priest molestation case caused the archdiocese to put some stricter policies in place.
"Everything he told us is contradicted by the evidence," said Mary Scanlon Calcaterra, a group leader. "He told us since 1993 there were only two new cases of abuse. He had said that the archdiocese had a new policy since 1993, a policy of dealing with misguided priests, that a new policy was put in place with provisions that safeguarded victims, children, and families."
She added, "We see there was a very systematic and widespread effort to protect criminal behavior."
Dr. Post said the group would hold meetings of its leadership and members over the next few days and he said he considered it "highly likely" that members would vote to call for the cardinal's resignation.
Voice of the Faithful has already raised about $60,000 from people who did not want to give to the archdiocese's annual fund-raising drive, but the group has offered that money to the archdiocese for charitable programs, requiring that the archdiocese account for its spending and put none of the money into administrative operations.
Dr. Post said today that many members felt the need to register a stronger economic protest because the documents "highlight how hundreds of thousands of dollars have been used to support priests on administrative leave because of allegations, used to cover up these actions, used to try to suppress the documents."
He said members might decide to "cut off their donations entirely" or "redirect them by putting money into trust funds for benefit of particular parish."
In response to the Voice of the Faithful statements, Ms. Morrissey said: "The cardinal met with them in good faith. It was a cordial and respectful meeting as reported by officials of both Voice of the Faithful and the archdiocese. What they may or may not do is speculative, and I cannot comment on that."
Filing for bankruptcy would have certain advantages for the church, potentially allowing it to delay paying plaintiffs for years because under Chapter 11, creditors may not take steps to collect what is owed them while an organization takes time to get its finances in order. 
During that time, the bankruptcy judge would stop the progress of pending court cases and the filing of new cases. The release of incriminating church documents in the discovery process would stop, as would embarrassing depositions of Cardinal Law and other officials.
In addition, the archdiocese might be hoping that a federal bankruptcy judge would be more sympathetic to the church than Judge Constance M. Sweeney of Superior Court, who has ruled consistently for the public disclosure of church documents about abusive priests. And a bankruptcy judge might be more able to force the archdiocese's insurance companies to pay for much of the settlements. The church has nearly $100 million in insurance, but insurers are balking at paying some of the claims.
But bankruptcy would have pitfalls, too, opening the church's closely held financial records and giving a judge control over which church land or buildings might be sold to pay plaintiffs. And it might create the impression that the church was trying to avoid fully compensating abuse victims.
For those reasons, and the fact that archdiocese may well be able to afford paying for the settlements without filing for bankruptcy, plaintiffs' lawyers said they suspected that the talk about bankruptcy was mostly a negotiating strategy to lower the financial expectations of the plaintiffs. Even a member of the church's finance council expressed that view this week.
But one archdiocesan financial adviser said on Sunday that bankruptcy was attractive because "it would make all the plaintiffs come forward and treat them all equally." The adviser said Cardinal Law was "leaning toward" bankruptcy and added, "There are a lot of very, very practical reasons why it makes sense." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); LITIGATION (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LIQUIDATIONS (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); JUDGES (72%) BANKRUPTCIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRIESTS; SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; LAW, BERNARD F (CARDINAL) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) HOLY SEE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) BOSTON (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



133 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Federal Panel Rejects United Request for Loan Aid
A federal panel has rejected a request by United Airlines for $1.8 billion in loan guarantees. Union leaders said that United executives told them that the airline hoped to avoid an immediate bankruptcy filing, but analysts said the decision all but ensured that United would have to seek court protection.
 The Air Transportation Stabilization Board said that government assistance would not solve United's problems. "This is not just about costs," wrote Peter R. Fisher, a Treasury undersecretary who is on the board. "It's about a business plan that is fundamentally flawed." United said it was disappointed by the decision. Page A1. 

Gilead Moves to Expand Drug Line
Gilead Sciences, the biotechnology company, plans to buy Triangle Pharmaceuticals for $464 million to expand its line of drugs to treat AIDS and hepatitis B. Gilead already sells an AIDS drug. Triangle is seeking approval for its own AIDS drug. The acquisition could be one of several mergers that analysts say might occur because many biotechnology companies are running out of cash. C3.

Former Trader at El Paso Is Indicted
A former natural gas trader of the El Paso Corporation, Todd Geiger, 38, has been indicted on charges of falsely reporting 48 gas trades last year. C3.

France Telecom Proposes Overhaul
Moving to shore up France Telecom, the chairman, Thierry Breton, presented proposals that included a government loan of about $9 billion to help deal with $70 billion in debt. C3.

I.B.M. Will Add $3 Billion to Pension
In an effort to put the issue of pension-fund obligations behind it, I.B.M. announced that it planned to put $3 billion into its American pension fund. C4.

Markets Finish the Day Lower
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 5.08 points, to close at 8,737.85. The Nasdaq fell 18.61 points, to 1,430.35. The Standard & Poor's index declined 3.18 points, to 917.57. C8.

Last year, trades through CIBC World Markets raised more than $16 million for charities devoted to children. This year's effort is expected to have raised even more. C5.

Shortcut Suggested in Sun Case
A federal judge suggested that Sun Microsystems, in its antitrust suit against Microsoft, drop some of its demands and go directly to trial on whether to force Microsoft to carry Sun's Java program. A lawyer for Sun said the company would consider the idea. C4.

Porsche Posts Record Profit
Defying an economic downturn and a stock market collapse that decimated the portfolios of many of its best customers, the automaker Porsche said that it posted a record pretax profit of $830 million on sales of $4.87 billion in fiscal 2002. Wendelin Wiedeking, left, the chief executive, said the German government helped Porsche achieve its record profit by reducing the corporate tax rate. World Business, Section W.

Factory Orders Increase in October
Factory orders rose in October for the first time since July, while the service sector continued to expand in November. C12.

T.G.I. Friday's Ads Shift Direction
In March, T.G.I. Friday's started an estimated $50 million campaign. But the irreverent "Eat What You Love. Love Where You Eat" campaign, featuring a character named the Friday's Guy, has turned off consumers and alienated franchisees. So Friday's has temporarily retooled the campaign. Advertising. C8.

An Age of Economic Enlightenment
Through most of history, periods of invention did not create sustained growth. That pattern changed in the 19th century. "The true question of the Industrial Revolution," one professor writes, "is not why it took place at all but why it was sustained beyond, say, 1820." Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,737.85 down 5.08Nasdaq composite -- 1,430.35 down 18.6110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.15% down 0.06The euro -- $1.0003 up 0.0046The dollar -- 124.65 yen up 0.04 Graph tracks Gilead Sciences share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); MERGERS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FUEL MARKETS (71%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); JUDGES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); HEPATITIS (55%); HEPATITIS B (53%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (93%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); EL PASO CORP (83%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (57%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (93%); FTE (NYSE) (93%); FTE (BIT) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (83%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: WENDELIN WIEDEKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (64%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



134 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: More Families Face Loss of Heat With Public Aid Scarce 

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The living room of Anna Brown's wood-frame house on the city's West Side is toasty these days. The rest of the house is cold.
 Mrs. Brown, 75, keeps two electric space heaters in her living room during the day. Her natural gas was disconnected two years ago when prices soared and she fell behind in her payments. So she has erected the seasonal curtain of thick plastic that seals off the living room from the rest of the house, and has resigned to settle in for another long Chicago winter warmed by the red glow of space heaters. 
 In Chicago alone, the number of customers without natural gas service is 10,000, according to People's Energy, the utility company that supplies natural gas to nearly one million customers in the Chicago area. 
With the economy stagnant, social service agencies say people are seeking help in paying their heating bills earlier this year and the coming winter is likely to pose a chilling bind. It is expected to be colder than last winter, the price of gas is rising and the Bush administration has proposed cutting $300 million from the $1.7 billion federal program that provided energy subsidies for needy families in the last fiscal year. 
Such a cut would mean that 438,000 fewer families received aid from the program, the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which helped 4.5 million families last year, said Mark Wolfe, spokesman for the National Energy Assistance Director's Association, an education and policy group for directors of the program in states and on Indian reservations.
Michael Musante, a spokesman for a federal agency involved in the program, said of the proposed $300 million reduction: "You could call it a cut if you like. We're saying its a return to the normal level of funding that we found in 2001."
Mr. Musante said there was a $300 million emergency contingency fund that would be available to states for help in extreme weather of all types as well in cases in which energy supplies are disrupted or there are huge spikes in energy prices. He said there was also a supplemental fund of $300 million that could be tapped for energy assistance. States must request this money, he said.
Any cut in the budget of the federal program for energy assistance would have to be approved by Congress. Under the proposed reduction, the number of households served in New York State would probably shrink by 80,000, to 585,000, Mr. Wolfe said. That would be if, as projected, $38 million was cut from the state's $212 million in federal energy assistance money, he said. 
In Illinois, the proposed cuts, would mean that 35,000 fewer families would receive assistance. 
In New York City, the cost of heat is included in most rents, said Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the New York City Department of Housing and Preservation. But that does not mean residents do not have heating problems. From Oct. 1 to Nov. 26, the housing agency issued violations to 2,570 apartment buildings for insufficient heat, Ms. Abrams said, compared with 2,123 for the same period last year. Of the 2,570 violations this season, either the city or the owner restored heat to all the buildings. 
Whether the demand for heating assistance will actually turn out to be higher this year is not clear. But in Minnesota, local groups that administer the aid program said that more people -- many of whom have lost their jobs -- were asking for help earlier than usual, despite relatively warm weather. 
"We are seeing a lot more new applicants this year, especially early in the season," said Anthony Spears, chief financial officer for Community Action of Minneapolis Inc., a nonprofit group that distributes the energy-assistance money.
In the last 45 days, Mr. Spears said his agency had processed 4,000 applications, nearly double the number handled in the same period last year.
Officials in Detroit have also seen a growing need. Kathleen Walgren, executive director of the nonprofit Heat and Warmth Fund, said that since the agency began its early emergency program on Nov. 1, it had helped 330 households, mostly in Detroit, where service was shut off, paying $144,836 in utility bills. Mrs. Walgren said several hundred others had already inquired about help. 
In Chicago and some other Illinois cities, officials say, state money to restore service to households that have been disconnected is already exhausted for the winter.
With almost every state and city facing major budget cuts, it may be difficult to use public money to make up for any federal spending cuts.
Last week, community activists in Chicago demonstrated outside People's Energy as well as the mayor's office, demanding that the gas to homes that had been disconnected for nonpayment be restored. 
"It's a grim situation," said Bob Vondrasek, executive director of the South Austin Coalition, which participated in the demonstration. "People are living in the cold, they're trying to get by with kerosene heaters and charcoal grills, electric heaters. There will be fires, hypothermia. Strictly from the perspective of low-income households, it's kind of a third-world situation."
For some, there appears to be little immediate relief in sight.
"I couldn't pay the gas bill and keep my lights on," said Mrs. Brown, explaining that she receives about $1,000 a month in Social Security and that $700 of that goes toward her mortgage. "I just couldn't pay it. You've got to have one designated area where you can stay warm."
During the day Mrs. Brown stays in her living room. At night, she carries a space heater to her bedroom.
In Chicago this fall, People's Energy started a program called the Gift of Warmth, which allows people to buy cards worth varying amounts to give to family members for their heating costs. The utility also has a Share the Warmth program that provides up to $200 in assistance to low-income families.
"We make every effort to lead customers to financial aid and put them on payment plans as a way to avoid disconnections," said Elizabeth Castro, a spokeswoman for the utility. "A lot of the times, it's just about contacting us before it becomes a problem." 
John Howat, senior energy policy analyst at the National Consumer Law Center in Washington, said that only "a handful of states" compiled data on utility terminations for nonpayment and how long a customer's gas service had been shut off, making it difficult to measure the extent of the problem. But what is clear, Mr. Howat said, is that many terminations of service and utility company debts are concentrated in low-income areas.
"There continues to be a large gap in the rates of shutoffs and the rates of restoration," Mr. Howat said. "That means people are shut off for longer periods of time. There is a pressing need for a lot more energy assistance."
For some this winter, it could come down to making hard choices.
"A couple years ago we asked the people who get our assistance what they would do if they didn't have it," said Mrs. Walgren, of Detroit's heating-aid program. "A number of them said they would have to cut back on food. Heat or eat."
Mrs. Brown is now about $3,000 in debt on her gas bill, with two hot plates as well as two space heaters. She figures that she can keep her living room warm enough and keep heating water for washing until Chicago's winter breaks sometime in April, if she is lucky.
"You see this here?" Mrs. Brown said, pointing to her space heaters. "That's how I'm going to make it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With her natural gas heat cut off for two years because she cannot afford it, Anna Brown, 75, of Chicago makes do with two electric space heaters and a living room winterized by a huge plastic curtain that seals it off. (Peter Thompson for The New York Times) Chart/Map: "DOLLARS AND CENTS -- Warmth for the Needy"The government spent $1.7 billion in the fiscal year 2001-2002 to help low-income people heat their homes. The Bush administration has proposed cutting that to $1.4 billion. ENERGY ASSISTANCE FOR STATESincludes heating and cooling, fiscal year 2002 (Source: Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program) Map of United States shows amount spent, measured in millions, on energy assistance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); APPROVALS (68%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (66%); WEATHER (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



135 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Taking a Shopping-Center Feud to the Shareholders

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
The brawl at the mall is on. Escalating an already bitter feud, the Simon Property Group will announce today that it is going directly to shareholders of A. Alfred Taubman's shopping mall empire, Taubman Centers, with a sweetened takeover bid of $1.5 billion, bypassing the wishes of the company's board.
 According to people briefed on the situation, Simon Property, the nation's largest shopping mall owner, is also planning to file a lawsuit today against Taubman Centers, its board and members of the Taubman family -- including Mr. Taubman, who is serving a prison sentence for conspiring to fix prices when he was chairman of Sotheby's auction house. The suit will seek to invalidate the family's control over the company and clear the way for shareholders to consider the new offer, which is for $18 a share in cash. 
 Taubman Centers' board had rebuffed Simon Property's initial offer of $17.50 a share two weeks ago, insisting that because of the family's ability to block any deal -- and its opposition to selling -- "any efforts to purchase Taubman Centers would not be productive."
In the suit, Simon Property will make a new contention, asserting that the Taubman Centers board deliberately broke Michigan law by giving the family effective voting control over the company in 1998 without a shareholder vote, these people said. Taubman Centers is based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., near Detroit.
Both companies declined to comment.
Simon Property's latest salvo is likely to intensify one of the most-watched fights among the clubby world of wealthy real estate investors by putting pressure on Taubman's board to consider the bid or defend its position.
So far, Taubman Centers has avoided debating Simon Property's bid by taking a "just say no" approach.
Corporate governance experts and analysts suggest that the tender offer will force Taubman's independent board members to hire financial and legal advisers to consider the offer thoroughly, something they have been pressed to do but have so far resisted.
Earlier this week, Stuart Seeley, an analyst at UBS, wrote in a note to clients that Simon Property has "clearly thrown a live grenade into the lap of the independent board members such that they will likely feel compelled to be in a defensible position" and thus "should feel a need to affirmatively consider this, and any other offers, thoroughly."
Still, Taubman Centers has several defense mechanisms that could protect it from Simon Property's advances unless these are blocked by a judge. In some respects, Simon Property's effort to seek stock directly from Taubman shareholders is meant simply to put pressure on the board and to demonstrate to the judge that shareholders are possibly being disenfranchised.
Indeed, the company cannot be taken over without a two-thirds vote by all shareholders -- and the Taubman family has about 30 percent voting strength and enough friends and associates to give it effective veto power.
In its suit, Simon Property is challenging the way the Taubman family obtained its voting equity in Taubman Centers, which is a real estate investment trust that owns a stake in an operating partnership, the Taubman Realty Group. The partnership owns the properties, which include two dozen malls like the Mall at Short Hills in New Jersey and the Beverly Center in Los Angeles.
Until 1998, the Taubman family did not have voting control of the publicly traded company; its economic interest and voting rights were tied up in the operating partnership, a common structure to reduce taxes for the family.
As part of restructuring, the family received special shares in the publicly traded company -- giving it 30 percent of the vote -- apparently to align the interests of stakeholders in both the publicly traded company and the partnership. The arrangement was not disclosed in a news release at the time but was acknowledged later in a filing with securities regulators.
Simon Property's suit contends that the move was carried out without a required shareholder vote. Michigan law requires a shareholder vote if more than 20 percent of a company changes hands, a law usually invoked to prevent takeovers without shareholder approval. The Taubmans' stake in the publicly traded company went to about 30 percent from 1 percent.
Simon Property is also planning to contest more voting shares that were recently transferred to the Taubman family by friends and associates that gave it additional voting strength, these people said. 
Taubman Centers also has another defense mechanism in its charter that prevents any shareholder from taking a stake larger than 9.8 percent without the board's approval or a two-thirds vote by the shareholders to change the charter.
So far, the shareholders are betting that the family does not capitulate; Taubman shares fell 14 cents yesterday, to $16.46, still below Simon Property's original offer of $17.50 each. Shares of Simon Property fell 15 cents, to $33.55.
Simon Property has a long road ahead if it is going to prevail.
"Handicapping the outcome of complicated lawsuits, such as this one would likely be, is far from straightforward," Barry Vinocur, editor of The Realty Stock Review, wrote in a recent note to clients. "Nevertheless, we doubt that making the case advanced by Simon would be a slam-dunk. Of course, we suspect that Simon's primary goal is to win its case in the court of public opinion, and by all accounts, it seems to be doing that."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RETAILERS (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); CARTELS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); JUDGES (71%); SENTENCING (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (74%)

ORGANIZATION: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP; TAUBMAN CENTERS INC 

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (74%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%) SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: A ALFRED TAUBMAN (90%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; TAUBMAN, A ALFRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) MICHIGAN

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



136 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE TRAVELERS; 
In Short Term, Probably Business as Usual

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
Airline experts say they are fairly certain of three things if United Airlines goes to bankruptcy court: travelers will probably not see immediate drastic cuts in United flights; the carrier's frequent-flier miles will remain valid; and United's large rivals will lunge for United customers at the airline's hub airports.
 "There will be a void and in the moment of weakness we would expect the Northwests, Americans, Deltas and Continentals of the world to move quickly and go after the customers," especially in United strongholds like Chicago, Denver and Los Angeles, said Bill Oliver, vice president of the Boyd Group, an airline consulting company in Evergreen, Colo. 
 Mr. Oliver, a former executive with Braniff Airlines, which shut down in 1989 after twice entering bankruptcy and liquidating, said that new, widespread fare wars were not likely because leisure fares are already at money-losing levels. Instead, he said, United's competitors could be expected to add flights in hubs where they compete with United, while sweetening promotional offers like frequent-flier benefits to try to attract United's business travelers. 
"Short term, a United bankruptcy means nothing," said Joe Brancatelli, an air-travel consultant who publishes the Web site Joesentme. com. "Flights will continue to run, tickets will continue to be honored, and frequent-flier miles will continue to be acquired and used for travel awards."
"Today, tomorrow, January and February, you'd see very little," he added. "March and April, that's when they'd make any massive changes in flight schedules." 
Both business and leisure travelers are worried about United, the nation's second-largest airline. But in the last two years travelers have grown accustomed to hearing bad news about airlines and making accommodations to constricting schedules and deteriorating service, industry experts said.
US Airways had already severely reduced its schedule and work force had already severely reduced its schedule and work force by the time it sought Chapter 11 protection in August, for example, so post-bankruptcy customers "barely missed a beat," said Thomas Nulty, the president of Navigant International, the travel-management company.
Consequently, travel agents and others in the industry say, as of yesterday there had been no noticeable effort by people to return or transfer already purchased United tickets. Customers expressing concerns are being assured that United will continue flying during a bankruptcy reorganization, they said.
On the other hand, uncertainty about United's longer-term shape is worrisome for corporate managers who are now negotiating volume-discount contracts with airlines for travel through next year. They know that in Chapter 11, United will eventually reduce routes and service even more than it already has.
"United has been a preferred supplier for us," said Peter Buchheit, travel director at the Black & Decker Corporation, which spends about $15 million a year on domestic airline tickets. "But right now, making any kind of intelligent determination" to contract for air service with United is difficult, he said. "It's hard to make any long-term commitments." 
Ira Weinstein, an airport industry consultant, said that because United was "so skewed toward the business-travel market," it was risking further alienating those higher-paying customers, who already have shown that they will switch to smaller discount airlines with less convenient schedules.
If United does seek bankruptcy court protection soon, the consequences will become increasingly pronounced when travel picks up after the winter, said Kevin P. Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition.
By then, customer service will probably have deteriorated further as anxious employees chafe at working harder for less pay while United "pinches every penny" under bankruptcy constraints, he said. "Deteriorating customer service will be the most notable immediate impact," he said.
Mr. Mitchell also said he thought it possible, if unlikely, that sporadic fare wars could begin -- despite the fact that airlines are expected to lose more than $8 billion this year. That, he said, would further damage the industry.
Longer term, industry experts see a potential for higher leisure fares as airlines settle into a more rational pricing structure and struggle for profitability.
A United bankruptcy filing would also portend a further overall shrinking of flights and capacity, probably including reduced service to regional markets. It would increase the likelihood that the United States airline industry will ultimately consolidate into two or three major worldwide carriers supplemented by four or five bigger players among the robustly growing discount carriers.
Internationally, a United hobbled by bankruptcy is disturbing news for Star Alliance, a worldwide network of 14 airlines that share frequent- flier programs and even flights on some routes, and whose major players include United and Lufthansa. Several industry experts speculated that Lufthansa might seek to replace United with a more stable global partner, like American Airlines.
United, whose main strengths are in the Midwest, Mountain states and West, had an average of 2,200 daily flights in 2000. It now flies fewer than 1,800, and recently announced a further 6 percent reduction in capacity and a plan to furlough 352 pilots early in 2003. In 2000, United had more than 10,000 pilots. It now employs about 8,500.
Now that a bankruptcy filing appears unavoidable as prospects for an immediate federal loan bailout disappeared yesterday, airline industry experts struggled to find lessons in previous airline bankruptcies. But a bankruptcy filing by a carrier as big and as dominant as United in the domestic and international business-travel market would be unprecedented, industry experts said.

Help on the Web For Frantic Fliers
For those worried about United flights they have booked, here are some Web sites for information on schedules and news about United and other airlines:

UNITED.COM -- United Airlines' Web site has flight information, including a downloadable flight schedule. Company news releases and announcements can be found under "about United" by clicking on "company information."

JOHNNYJET.COM -- A travel portal with hundreds of links to timely airline information and news. It has a link for current information about any scheduled domestic flight.

FLYERTALK.COM -- A comprehensive portal with forums, tips and live chats on frequent-flier programs, including complaints, warnings and the latest promotional offers.

FLY.FAA.GOV -- A map showing the nation's airports, with current information on air traffic, including delays.

JOESENTME.COM -- Views on air travel from a travel expert, Joe Brancatelli, and others, with a lot of links to industry news and travel tools.
 JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (91%); AIR FARES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (87%); LABOR FORCE (85%); AIRPORTS (79%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (60%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: SWK (NYSE) (60%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



137 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: City Gets Budgeting Tips, Down to Turning Off Lights 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Increase the workweek for city workers to at least 40 hours. Eliminate planned, predictable overtime shifts for police officers. Provide more preventive services to keep borderline students in regular classes, rather than more expensive special education classes. And remind all employees: last one out, turn off the lights!
 Those were some of the suggestions in a series of reports issued yesterday by a private budget-watchdog group contending that the city could save more than $1 billion a year with longer workweeks, restructured special education, overhauled staffing at the Police Department and energy conservation at city agencies. 
 The reports -- released by the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan research group backed by businesses -- came during a day of public conversations about the city's troubled finances. At Baruch College, veterans of the fiscal crisis of the 1970's discussed what lessons leaders should draw from that era. And at New York Law School, Mark Page, the city's budget director, gave a speech outlining the Bloomberg administration's approach to balancing the books in these hard times.
The backdrop to all these discussions is the money crunch the city has been struggling with for more than a year, as the weak economy, the attack on the World Trade Center and the unsustainable spending levels reached during the boom times of the late 1990's have combined to throw the city's budget out of balance.
The 18.5 percent increase in property tax rates that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed last week, along with another battery of budget cuts, should raise more than enough to balance this year's budget. But the city still faces a shortfall of more than $3 billion in the fiscal year that begins in seven months, on July 1.
The Citizens Budget Commission estimated that if the city's 70,000 civilian workers (a figure that excludes teachers and uniformed employees) who work fewer than 40 hours a week were required to do so, the city could use fewer workers to perform the same tasks and save up to $498 million a year. Changing staffing at the Police Department -- by eliminating nonemergency overtime and transferring duties unrelated to law enforcement from police officers to lower-paid civilians -- could save $251 million a year. Overhauling special education, they said, could save $267 million a year. And conserving energy could save the city up to $47 million a year.
The reports were received favorably by the Bloomberg administration, which is counting on $600 million in productivity savings to balance the budget next year, and has publicly endorsed several of the measures that were mentioned in the reports.
The labor unions would have to agree to an expanded workweek. Yesterday the Bloomberg administration began negotiating its next contract with District Council 37, the largest municipal union. A union official said that she had not seen the report and could not comment on it.
As the budget commission pushed its proposals, Mr. Page outlined the city's budget plan during a rare public speech at a breakfast at New York Law School.
Although some critics maintain that the city should lay off more workers to save money, Mr. Page noted that the city loses more than 12,000 employees a year through regular attrition. And he said that the city is looking for other ways to save money as its budget plan evolves.
"The fact that it doesn't, in fact, have wholesale layoffs in it shouldn't be a great surprise to people," Mr. Page said. "It doesn't mean that there aren't in fact substantial reductions in what we're planning to spend, which, at the end of the day, are not going to be totally fun."
But he did include a caveat. "Things may fall apart at the last minute," he said. "We may end up with substantial layoffs."
The Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-backed research group, sounded a warning this week in a report that found that while the city has lost less than half as many jobs as it did during the recession of the early 1990's, they have disappeared at a much faster rate.
"It could be that we're in for more than a year or two of very weak economic conditions," said James A. Parrot, the group's chief economist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (91%); WORK WEEK (90%); OVERTIME (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MAYORS (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); TAX INCREASES (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



138 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: White-Collar Layoffs, Downsized Dreams; 
Losing Faith in a Limitless Future

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Besides the obvious impact on wallets and pocketbooks, the prolonged economic downturn is leaving a profound and potentially long-lasting psychological imprint on a generation of midcareer professionals who have until now known little but success in the world of work.
 Years of progressively better jobs and higher salaries, for many solidly in the six figures, primed their expectations and shaped their lives. Now many of these professionals -- a broad range of college-educated managers, administrators and midlevel executives -- have been out of work for a year or longer, especially in the hard-hit worlds of finance, communications and information technology that are concentrated in the New York area. 
 They realize that tough times have pushed many blue-collar workers to the brink of bankruptcy and feel uncomfortable complaining too loudly. 
But on commuter trains and in coffee shops throughout the region, they take the measure of their unaccustomed plight. Though not on welfare, they have had to raid savings. Though far from homeless, they have had to halt big projects, like re-siding the house, that were begun when times were good. 
And most significantly, though they have no doubt they will work again, they have had to downsize their dreams.
"The way it is now, you look at everything and say, 'Do I need to do this,' " said Eric S. Feinstein, 40, a former high-tech manager and father of two from Ossining, N.Y., who has been out of work for 19 months. He and his wife, Lauri Nemetz, had long planned to have a third child. Now even that personal plan has been undermined. 
"When people say 'Do you think you'll have another one?' my knee-jerk reaction is that I can't even think about it until I have a job again," Mr. Feinstein said. "There is uncertainty about everything because the slowdown has been so prolonged. You just don't know how to plan for things." 
In the last two years, the rate of increase of unemployment among professionals has risen proportionately more than for the blue-collar workers, who are traditionally hit hardest in a recession. 
Having lost their jobs in part because the technology bubble burst, many professionals have had a harder time than most blue-collar workers finding new ones. The number of professionals out of work for more than six months has more than doubled in the last year, and on average they are going jobless longer than both crafts workers and laborers.
Recent polls show that the optimism and confidence that were a notable feature of this slump a year ago have started to wane. 
"Their sense of security has been shaken," said Katherine S. Newman, Malcolm Wiener professor of urban studies at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. "People will survive, but they won't generally come back to the standard of living they once enjoyed. For most of them, it means deferring a lot of dreams, and compromising aspects of life that are very precious to them."
Instead of snorkeling in Aruba, John Sampson, 58, of Wayne, N.J., will go to the Adirondacks for vacation -- if he takes a vacation -- because his position running all the computer operations of a large community development agency in Newark was eliminated a year ago. Lisa E. Rosevear, 35, had planned to buy a condominium in Manhattan until she lost her job at a global public relations firm last December. Now she does not expect to be able to buy a home for at least a decade.
Until he lost his job in April 2001 as director of technology for the interactive-services group at Viacom, Mr. Feinstein had a career trajectory that seemed to go one way: up. After graduating from Johns Hopkins University in 1983 with a degree in electrical engineering and computer science, he spent the next 18 years in a series of high-technology jobs.
Then in early 2001, after Viacom merged with CBS, the interactive-services group was disbanded.
At first, Mr. Feinstein believed another job would come as effortlessly as jobs had always come in the past. He was so confident that the first thing he did was take a vacation to Colonial Williamsburg with his wife, who was pregnant with their second son, Caleb. Mr. Feinstein did not even think about looking for a job until he got home.
One month went by. Then another. By July 2001, he was checking the help-wanted ads for the first time in his professional life. As summer ended, he was desperately firing off resumes and finding that he could not even get a callback. 
"This really gets your ego," Mr. Feinstein said. "You start thinking, 'How could I have been such a key part of an organization a couple of months ago when I can't even get a return phone call from anyone?' " 
Although his wife had not planned to work while the boys were so young, she took a job last fall as a dance-movement therapist with a Westchester County counseling service. That helped, but the family has had to siphon off about 35 percent of its savings.
They postponed all nonessentials. That included renovating the bathroom and replacing their wheezing 1989 Mazda.
Now, at home with the boys, Mr. Feinstein scours the help-wanted ads and job Web sites daily. He has taken up baking, and supplies cafes in Westchester County with brownies, biscotti and 11 kinds of scones. Maple pecan is his best seller. 
He has contemplated starting his own business, but realizes that he will probably have to return to the corporate world, provided he can find an opening. But he doubts that he will ever recover the optimism he had before.
"There probably will always be a shadow of a 'Don't get too comfortable' kind of thing," he said. "Some people think, 'What's the big deal, you just lost one job?' But that's not really the case. Your confidence in the system is shattered."
Professionals in the high-tech field expect to hop from job to job. The problem now, said Robert Larson, president of Berman Larson Kane, a large recruitment company in Paramus, N.J., is that they have never before had to survive a slump.
When people call to offer a resume, Mr. Larson said, "I don't have the heart to tell them that we're getting 60,000 to 100,000 people a month who come to our Web site for jobs." 
This makes it difficult for Mr. Larson to help even those people whose careers he has tracked for 15 years, like Alvin Blake of Ridgewood, N.J.
Mr. Blake, 58, lost his job as director of professional services at Qwest in January. Since then, he has regularly attended meetings of a Ridgewood support group for out-of-work professionals. When his unemployment benefits ran out, he began driving a limousine. 
"Pride is not one of my vanities," he said. He fantasizes about turning an executive passenger into a prospective employer.
Mr. Blake and his wife, Tommie, a flight attendant, have had to pull in their horns considerably. "My house is in disrepair, and the outside should have been painted last year," he said. They go to dinner or the movies only once a month, and vacations are out of the question. But he said the most difficult aspect of all has been telling his 17-year-old daughter, Allison, a senior in high school, that she probably will not be able to attend a private college like her older sister, Sawyer.
"The higher up you were," Mr. Blake said, "the tougher this is."
Prolonged unemployment can also nibble away at the foundation of any relationship, as Ed Krugman of East Brunswick, N.J., found out after he lost his job in May 2001.
Mr. Krugman, 58, had been director of international information technology for Block Drug in Jersey City until it was bought out by a large multinational corporation. He first put out feelers about eight months before his job disappeared, and he has searched for work since then to no avail. He joined a group of unemployed professionals called We Want Work, and in September he stood outside Grand Central Terminal wearing a sandwich board pleading with prospective employers to look at his resume on the Internet. 
"Before the company announced the merger, I thought I was going to stay with them for a long time and watch my responsibilities increase," Mr. Krugman said. He and his wife, Phyllis, had lived in their home for almost 20 years and had planned several renovations, including a new kitchen.
"Now, all of that has been put on hold," Mr. Krugman said. They have used up about 20 percent of their savings, and have not contributed to their retirement plans for 18 months.
Dashed dreams have a way of pushing people to the edge, even when they do not mean to go there. "She's awful," Mr. Krugman said of his wife, a nurse's aide. "She wants to know how come other people are working and I'm not. She's very upset."
Mr. Krugman said his optimism had dimmed considerably in the last 18 months. "All I can see is that the age at which I plan to retire keeps increasing," he said. "Now I picture myself working into my 70's, if I can find a job."
Sociologists are beginning to consider the long-term effects this prolonged downturn may have on this generation of workers and the next.
"These people don't ever recover the sense of complete confidence that the world is as it appears," said Professor Newman of Harvard. "In some way, they are always worried that the other shoe is going to drop tomorrow. It's a feeling that they transmit to their kids, and this can have ramifications through the generations."
Bernadette T. Lowthert, 40, already believes that these times have become the equivalent for her of what the Depression was for previous generations.
"You know there's going to be a crisis in your lifetime," said Ms. Lowthert, who was laid off in July 2001 from an Internet start-up that she joined after having spent 13 years as a microbiologist and project director with a large pharmaceutical company. "It was the Depression for my parents. This is it for us now."
She cannot afford to have her sister, who is mentally disabled, live with her, as she had planned. She has delayed the renovation of the bathroom in her New York City apartment. She still goes out to dinner every once in a while, but she orders just an appetizer.
Early last month she began a new job, selling laboratory services to doctors. She said that it was a setback, professionally speaking, and entailed a big cut in salary. 
Still, it is a job, and despite the hardship of the last 17 months, Ms. Lowthert said she remained essentially optimistic, though not the same as before. 
"This really tests you and tests your ego," she said. "Now it just doesn't feel right to look too far ahead. It doesn't make sense."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bernadette T. Lowthert, 40, believes that these times have become the equivalent for her of what the Depression was for previous generations. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B10); Eric S. Feinstein, 40, a father of two from Ossining, N.Y., and a former high-tech manager, has been out of work for 19 months. He was with Benjamin, 4, at the computer. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Graph shows the percentage of unemployed managers and professionals who have been out of work for more than six months since 1992. National figures are for October of each year. Not seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. B1) Chart: "OVERVIEW: Across the Board"Highly trained and educated managers and professionals are feeling the effects of the economic downturn more keenly than usual. National figures are for October of each year. More Are Unemployed . . . Graph shows the percentage of the following unemployed people since 1992: All workersCHANGE SINCE OCT. 2000: +46%Operators and laborersCHANGE SINCE OCT. 2000: +35%Managers and professionalsCHANGE SINCE OCT. 2000: +76% . . . And for LongerGraph shows the percentage of the following unemployed people who have been out of work for more than six months since 1992: All workersCHANGE SINCE OCT. 2000: +79%Operators and laborersCHANGE SINCE OCT. 2000: +96%Not seasonally adjusted.Managers and professionalsCHANGE SINCE OCT. 2000: +98%Not seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); TRAINS (53%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



139 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
REYNOLDS TOBACCO TO CUT MORE THAN 600 JOBS

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings will cut about 635 jobs, or 8 percent of its work force, and sell two nontobacco businesses to try to cut costs amid growing competition from lower-priced cigarette brands. Reynolds, the maker of Winston, Salem and Camel cigarettes, also said its 2002 earnings would be at the lower end of its projection for the year and below analysts' estimates. 
The cutback program, which will involve laying off 520 workers and leaving 115 jobs unfilled when they become vacant, is expected to be completed by the middle of next year. The company estimates the job moves will save $50 million next year and $75 million in 2004. The company also said it planned to sell two units that specialize in packaging and botanical extraction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: RJ REYNOLDS TOBACCO HOLDINGS INC (59%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO HOLDINGS 

TICKER: RAI (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (59%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (59%); SIC2121 CIGARS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



140 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE WORKERS; 
Daily Frustrations Grow for United's Workers

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
Melanie Strahan has worked as a flight attendant for United Airlines for 40 years. She has logged thousands of miles and poured countless cups of coffee.
 She now flies the long route to Beijing from Chicago, and wonders whether she will make it to retirement next year as a United employee. She fears that the UAL Corporation, which owns United, will be forced to file for bankruptcy protection and become the latest casualty in an increasingly demoralized travel industry. 
 "I've been through a lot with United," Ms. Strahan said from her home in Chicago. "I worry about retirement benefits, medical benefits." 
With a bankruptcy filing looming after the federal government rejected United's application for a $1.8 billion loan guarantee last night, thousands of United employees, some 81,000 around the world, according to UAL, are bracing for the worst.
The airline is expected to continue to operate even if it files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from its creditors, but there could be lost jobs and health benefits, more pilot furloughs and a legion of shattered careers.
Through it all, United's employees will continue to work the ticket counters, to check in customers, service planes and land jets in more than 120 cities worldwide. But many of them said that even before the government's decision last night, employee morale had been plummeting. There is now an awful sense of foreboding about the fate of their once-proud airline.
"This is absolutely devastating," Sheri Meehleis, a United flight attendant for 31 years, said last night after hearing about the government's rejection. "We've worked so hard to prevent this."
Going to work at United is not so easy these days; for United employees, the everyday smiles and customer greetings are a little harder to muster. Pessimism is in the air.
"I realize the seriousness of what I do," said David Quinn, 42, a lead mechanic for United at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. "But I'd be lying if I told you having your future on hold isn't having an effect on us. It's a constant sense of frustration that has bled over. It'd be inhuman to say this frustration doesn't come into play."
United employees are faced with the daily frustrations that typically come to a company on the verge of bankruptcy. Yet few thought that formerly loyal customers would also lash out.
Several customer service agents said that they have heard from frustrated travelers who said that the airline deserves to be in bankruptcy.
"We get no respect from management, and now customers are bashing us, saying we're going into bankruptcy," said Vanessa Reneau-Mack, 35, a customer service agent who works the ticket counters at O'Hare. "I'm with business travelers and frequent fliers, and so we're hearing this from even high-profile customers. What we want is respect. And we don't get respect from upper management. It's affecting us."
The people who work at United worried after Sept. 11. They changed their lives when new security measures were added. Now, they are bracing for the stiffest change of all -- the possibility that United will collapse.
In bankruptcy court, United would be free to petition the judge for much deeper cuts in pay and benefits than employees have agreed to until now.
Vivian Jackson, who also works in customer service at O'Hare, said that she worried about losing her health benefits. She is 30 and has a 6-month-old child. She's only been with United for three years, but she thought she had a future with the brand-name company. Now, she's not so sure. The company seems to be at war with itself.
"This is really personal," she said. "Before it was just the pilots or the mechanics. Now it's a tug of war."
Some United employees said that the company had not kept them abreast of the financial crisis, that they got their information from the newspapers or from watching television sets in the employee break room. They chatter while on the employee buses and huddle behind the scenes, whenever there is a lull in airport traffic.
Among flight attendants, the talk is of little but job security, said Ryan Murphy, a 27-year-old flight attendant who is based in San Francisco.
"It's very demoralizing," Mr. Murphy said. "People are very upset, or are trying to find out the information that they need, trying to make decisions about whether to stay or look for another job now."
Without the loan guarantees, United will almost certainly have to seek court protection from its creditors.
Ms. Meehleis, the United flight attendant who is also council president of the Association of Flight Attendants in Denver, said the union is "taking hundreds of calls a day" from flight attendants who want to know how they would be affected by a bankruptcy filing or reorganization. 
The most commonly asked questions are about who will be furloughed when the payroll cuts begin, and what the furlough will be like.
"Their questions run the gamut," she said. "What if we go on furlough and then the company goes into bankruptcy? Will the bankruptcy judge say United can't pay my unemployment compensation anymore?"
It is hard to answer, because the situation remains so fluid, she said. If United does file for court protection, which now seems inevitable, she said that certain contractual protections that United recently offered employees would no longer be binding. In that case, United could petition the bankruptcy judge to make drastic revisions to its labor agreements.
"They could wipe out our work rules," she said. "They could cut our compensation in half. It could be anything. Our work group stands to lose what we fought for 30 years to gain."
It may not come to that, but whatever happens, employees know they will lose ground.
Already, Mr. Murphy said United is scheduling his trips in ways that bring him home at the end of a shift, evidently to reduce lodging costs. When he has a coast-to-coast flight, United now tacks a short flight onto the beginning or end of it, lengthening his days.
"We used to do just one coast-to-coast in a day," he said. "It's like any classic work speed-up, just like in an auto plant."
These changes, and the sense that more are coming, appear to have prompted some employees to take early retirement, Ms. Meehleis said. One caller to the Denver union local mentioned that his "seniority number," which ranks the order in which employees can be furloughed, had fallen by 50 points since last week.
"That means 50 people have resigned, just earlier this week," she said. "There are people who are able to retire, and because of all this frustration, some people are making that decision. I think it's stress-related. A lot of people are saying, 'This is crazy. I'm done.'
"For me, as a 31-year flight attendant, if I had the opportunity to retire right now, I would," she added. "There's a lot of angst here."
Some of the angriest employees are mechanics like Mr. Quinn, who has worked for United for 17 years. He joined the company after serving in the Air Force. He now heads a mechanics crew that works on 737's and 747's. 
"We do seat cushions to jet engines to flight controls and automatic pilots," he said. "We do all that."
If he stays with United, he may have to wait out an ugly bankruptcy process; if he tried to get a job elsewhere, he would lose his seniority and be forced to take a huge pay cut.
"The difference between an American plane and a United plane is basically a paint job," he said. "But if I go to American I'd have to start at the bottom."
Some employees have nagging doubts about whether the pain of saving United is being evenly spread. 
Donald Cone, a baggage handler in Pittsburgh, said he was bothered by the feeling that the cost of keeping United aloft was being borne by employees more than executives. He recalled that in 1993, ground workers like him agreed to do without raises for seven years.
"We were promised that in July 2000, we would have a contract to vote on," he said. "It never happened."
Instead, he said baggage handlers went for nine years with no pay increase. One finally materialized last summer, but now the talk is of givebacks again.
"People from McDonald's, Wal-Mart, even newspaper writers -- everybody gets pay raises," Mr. Cone said. "We didn't. Not even a cost of living. So, my question is this: How in the world is United Airlines' trouble associated with labor costs?"
Like other employees, Mr. Cone spoke of the satisfaction he had once taken in his work and his association with an international airline. Baggage handlers sometimes ran races against the clock and against one another, Mr. Cone said, loading mountains of freight and luggage onto planes on schedule.
"An employee should have pride in their work," he said. "You try to keep that pride up. You try not to be angry. But you just can't keep taking a pounding in the gut. And it's not about money. It's about moral issues."
If United files for bankruptcy, it will be Mr. Cone's second experience. He and a number of other baggage and freight handlers in Pittsburgh are former steel workers who lost their jobs when that industry began to crumble a quarter-century ago. Mr. Cone worked for Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel from 1974 until 1986.
"I never thought I'd go through this again," he said. "That whole era, I just tried to wipe all that out of my mind. I never dreamed possible in my life that I would experience another Chapter 11."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Quinn, a United mechanic at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. He says that as the airline's financial problems raise doubts about his career, there is "a constant sense of frustration that has bled over." (Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C7); A United pilot in Denver. Employees are worried about layoffs and cuts in benefits if the airline files for bankruptcy protection. (Barry Gutierrez/The Rocky Mountain News via Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart/Map: "Defending Its Turf"As United Airlines struggles to survive after an expected bankruptcy filing, it is likely to face greater competition at its major strongholds around the country. DOMESTIC PASSENGERS BOARDEDAll airlines, six months ended June SAN FRANCISCO: 5,373,064UNITED AIRLINES: 53.1% LOS ANGELES: 9,513,554UNITED AIRLINES: 23.1% DENVER: 7,860,886UNITED AIRLINES: 64.1% CHICAGO O'HARE: 12,488,553UNITED AIRLINES: 49.0% WASHINGTON DULLES: 2,254,265UNITED AIRLINES: 53.5% Map of the United States shows United Airlines largest hubs.(Source: Merrill Lynch, Airline Industry Quarterly Review) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; CREDIT; FINANCES; PILOTS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BANKRUPTCIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (59%) AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD; UNITED AIRLINES; UAL CORP 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



141 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Putin, in India, Asks Pakistanis To End Support for the Militants 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: AHMEDABAD, India, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, joined Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee today in urging Pakistan to abandon its support for Islamic militants who strike India and to oppose the use of force to resolve the situation with Iraq. 
 At the end of talks in New Delhi, the two leaders signed an agreement -- the Delhi Declaration -- for the "further consolidation of strategic partnership" between India and Russia, whose cold war friendship has endured in its aftermath.
 They also issued a joint statement calling for Islamabad "to eliminate terrorist infrastructure in Pakistan and Pakistan-controlled territory as a prerequisite for the renewal of the peace dialogue" between India and Pakistan. 
Both India and Russia are facing Islamic insurgencies -- Russia in the republic of Chechnya, and India in the state of Jammu and Kashmir. 
"Such measures should be directed also against those states, entities and individuals who support, fund or abet terrorists or provide them shelter or asylum to engage in cross-border terrorism," the statement said, apparently in a reference to Pakistan. "There should be no double standards in the fight against terrorism." 
While both countries have expressed concern that Iraq maintain no weapons of mass destruction, their leaders today expressed reservations about the possibility of American military action there. 
"Both sides strongly opposed the unilateral use or threat of use of force in violation of the United Nations Charter as well as interference in internal affairs of other states," a joint statement released at the end of the talks said.
It continued: "It was stressed that the comprehensive settlement of the situation around Iraq is possible only through political and diplomatic efforts in strict conformity with the rules of international law only under the aegis of the United Nations." 
Mr. Putin said last weekend that Russia was concerned that Pakistan's nuclear weapons could fall into the hands of bandits and terrorists. He repeated the same concern today. "We should strengthen nonproliferation efforts, and then everything should be done to settle all disputes, including the dispute between India and Pakistan," he said. 
The India-Russia summit meeting focused on a range of defense, strategic and economic issues between the two countries, which were close during the cold war and retain strong military links. 
"The military and technology cooperation between India and Russia is acquiring a new quality," Mr. Putin said. 
He also said Russia would continue to cooperate with India on developing nuclear energy. 
The two countries signed seven other agreements in areas like counterterrorism and information technology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); VAJPAYEE, ATAL BIHARI (PRIME MIN); WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (88%) KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); PAKISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%) INDIA; RUSSIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU (INDIA)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



142 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: World Survey Says Negative Views of U.S. Are Rising 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
While people in most non-Muslim countries continue to view the United States favorably, negative opinions have increased in most nations over the past two years, according to public opinion surveys in 44 countries.
 The surveys of 38,000 people conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press indicated that, although there is widespread support for the United States-led campaign against terrorism since the Sept. 11 attacks, it was tempered by large minorities or even majorities in many countries who say the Bush administration is ignoring their nations' interests. 
 Moreover, followup polls last month in four countries -- Britain, France, Germany and Russia -- found substantial percentages of people saying they thought that the main reason the United States would go to war with Iraq would be "because the U.S. wants to control Iraqi oil." That view was held by 44 percent in Britain, 54 percent in Germany, 75 percent in France and 76 percent in Russia. A parallel survey in the United States found 22 percent agreeing with the war-for-oil theory. 
While polling could not be conducted in some important countries, like Saudi Arabia, and sensitive questions could not be asked in others, like China, the combined surveys appeared to be the largest simultaneous effort to gauge world opinion ever conducted, said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Center.
"The main lesson," Mr. Kohut said, "is that while there is a reserve of good will toward the United States, the most powerful country in the world has an increasing number of detractors." He said the post-cold-war reality was "how old friends who need us less, like us less," especially in Europe, while "the Russians have a better opinion of us."
Favorable views of the United States declined in the past two years in Britain from 83 to 75 percent and in Germany from 78 to 61 percent, while they increased in Russia from 37 to 61 percent. There were also striking increases in favorable opinions in Uzbekistan, from 56 to 85 percent, and in Nigeria, from 46 to 77 percent.
The United States-led campaign against terrorism was opposed by most people surveyed in several nations with Muslim majorities. The percentages opposed were 79 percent in Egypt, 85 percent in Jordan, 64 percent in Indonesia, 56 percent in Lebanon, 64 percent in Senegal, 58 percent in Turkey and 64 percent in Indonesia. Pluralities took that view in Pakistan -- 45 percent -- and Bangladesh -- 46 percent. 
The only other non-Muslim countries surveyed where majorities opposed the effort against terrorism were Argentina and South Korea. Argentina, in the midst of an economic crisis when the survey was taken earlier this fall, was critical of the United States on several other measures. In South Korea, Mr. Kohut said, relations with North Korea, a point on which the Seoul government and the Bush administration differ, may have been a factor. But throughout Europe, at least two-thirds of the public backed the policy, and in the predominately Muslim Central Asian nation of Uzbekistan, where the presence of American troops helps the economy, 91 percent supported it.
The findings on Turkey, where the Pentagon wants to use air bases and ports in case of war with Iraq, were singled out as important by Mr. Kohut and Madeleine K. Albright, the former secretary of state and a consultant on the project.
In Turkey, favorable views of the United States have dropped from 52 to 30 percent in the past two years. Only 30 percent said they supported the campaign against terrorism and 74 percent said the United States did not pay either much or any attention to Turkey's interests when setting policy. This week, Turkey's foreign minister, Yasar Yakis, cited public opinion in explaining to American officials why his country could not accept large numbers of American ground troops for a war with Iraq. Dr. Albright said this showed the difficulties in weighing "what we're asking countries to do in terms of leadership versus what people want us to do."
A delicate issue raised in the surveys was suicide bombing. In 14 countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle East, respondents were asked if they believed that "suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilian targets are justified in order to defend Islam from its enemies."
Majorities said it was often or sometimes justified in Lebanon (73 percent) and Ivory Coast (56 percent). More than 40 percent found it justified it in Bangladesh, Nigeria and Jordan. More than 25 percent said it was justifiable in Pakistan, Indonesia, Ghana, Mali, Senegal and Uganda.
But in many countries the question was not asked. Mr. Kohut said that in Egypt, for example, "A question about suicide bombing is not only impolitic, it could get you thrown in jail."
He said in order to do any polling at all in China and Vietnam, certain questions had to be omitted. "In Saudi Arabia," he said, "you have to get permission to do a poll, and we didn't get permission."
Although in some countries the polling was conducted by telephone, most people were interviewed face to face. In most countries, the survey involved national population samples, but others were done only in urban areas. They took place between July and October. The margins of error varied, from as low as plus or minus two percentage points to as much as plus or minus four percentage points.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Allie's Views on Iraq"Findings from a new Pew Research Center survey of world opinion. How much of a danger is Iraq to stability in the Mideast and world peace? United StatesBritainFranceGermanyRussiaTurkey Those polled answered:GREAT OR MODERATEDONT KNOW OR REFUSED TO ANSWERSMALL OR NONE What is the best way to deal with the threat posed by Saddam Hussein? TurkeyRussiaGermanyFranceBritain Those polled answered:HE MUST BE REMOVEDDONT KNOWHE CAN BE DISARMED Which better explains why the U.S. might use military force against Iraq? RussiaGermanyFranceBritainUnited States Those polled answered:THE U.S. WANTS TO CONTROL IRAQI OILDONT KNOWTHE U.S. BELIEVES SADDAM HUSSEIN IS A THREAT Do you favor or oppose the use of force to end Saddam Hussein's rule? RussiaGermanyFranceBritainUnited States Those polled answered:FAVORDONT KNOWOPPOSE Based on surveys of over 38,000 people in 44 countries between July and November. The margin of sampling error is between plus or minus 2 and 4 percentage points. (Source: Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, "What the World Thinks in 2002") Chart: "How Foreigners See America" Canada LATIN AMERICAVenezuelaPeruMexicoHondurasGuatemalaBrazilBoliviaArgentina WESTERN EUROPEGermanyItalyFranceBritain EASTERN EUROPEUkraineSlovak RepublicRussiaPolandCzech RepublicBulgaria AFRICAUgandaTanzaniaSouth AfricaSenegalNigeriaMaliKenyaIvory CoastGhanaAngola ASIAVietnamSouth KoreaPhilippinesJapanIndonesiaIndiaBangladesh MIDDLE EASTLebanonJordanEgypt OTHER COUNTRIESUzbekistanTurkeyPakistan KEY FAVORABLEVERYSOMEWHAT UNFAVORABLESOMEWHATVERY Dont know or refused to answer Countries polled answered using the above key.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (79%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION; ISLAM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: PEW RESEARCH CENTER FOR PEOPLE AND THE PRESS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (86%) CLYMER, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDONESIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (88%); NIGERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SENEGAL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



143 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Kenya's Democracy Prepares for an Important Test 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: MOMBASA, Kenya, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Daniel arap Moi, supreme ruler of Kenya for 24 years and one of Africa's longest surviving leaders, is ceding power this month in an election that many see as a test not only of this spirited if struggling country, but of the viability of democracy across the continent.
 Mr. Moi arrives in Washington on Thursday for a meeting with President Bush, one that is expected to touch on both the Nov. 28 terrorist attacks in Mombasa and the importance of the looming transition in Kenya. If all goes well and Mr. Moi steps gracefully aside, Mr. Bush is planning a trip to Kenya early next year, with one possible stop being the newly constructed American Embassy in Nairobi, which replaces the one destroyed by a terrorist bombing in 1998. 
 For Kenya, this is a campaign season unlike any other: while there is all the ferocious disagreement and sometimes deadly violence of past balloting, for most voters this will be the first election they have known in which the winner is not preordained.
The next president will be either Uhuru Kenyatta -- son of Kenya's first president, Jomo Kenyatta, and Mr. Moi's clear favorite -- or Mwai Kibaki, a veteran politician heading up an opposition coalition that increasingly appears to be the choice of a majority of Kenyans who are fed up with the corruption and crime that have eaten away at their country during Mr. Moi's rule. (Political experts say three other candidates, from minor parties, lack national reach and do not stand a chance.)
"We've never had an election this important," said John Githongo, a political expert who runs the offices of Transparency International, an anticorruption group, in the Kenyan capital. "Not many African countries have been able to handle democratic transitions. If we can do it, peacefully and without controversy, it's an achievement. Our economy will still be in shambles but this could be the beginning of our turnaround."
Despite severe economic woes and the steady decay of its once excellent infrastructure, Kenya remains a pillar of East Africa.
Relief operations to aid the suffering people of Sudan and Congo often being in Kenya. So do military actions to calm the killing frenzies of the region. United States Marines are currently involved in monthlong joint maneuvers along Kenya's coast. The country remains a banking and business center, a transportation hub and a zone of relative stability in a troubled part of the world.
The suicide bombing that leveled the Paradise Hotel here and the failed attempt to down a chartered aircraft leaving Mombasa for Israel only underscore the importance of Kenya. Many political experts believe Kenya, which has porous borders with largely lawless Somalia, has twice been picked as a terrorist target at least partly because of its pro-Western ways.
Still, it is not the country it once was or should be. "If this country were a car, we'd be pushing it," said Gordon Yagomba, 52, an opposition supporter who, like most Kenyans, struggles each month to feed his family.
Over the last quarter century, Mr. Moi's election victories were rather scripted affairs, with his name the only one of the ballot for much of his reign.
After reluctantly agreeing to multiparty politics in 1991, Mr. Moi and his Kenya African National Union party, known as KANU, still managed to manipulate the system -- by fomenting ethnic clashes, exploiting state resources and outfoxing the divided opposition.
As Kenya's economy has shriveled and its suffering has grown, Mr. Moi has found his popularity at an all-time low. He probably would not have won the Dec. 27 election even if the Constitution did not require him to retire.
"Any change of the head of state after 24 years is itself a major event," said Edward Clay, the British high commissioner in Kenya, which was a British colony until 1963. "The world is watching this election so closely because we all want Kenya to do better than it has been doing."
The campaign has generated a frenzy among Kenyans. Rocks are lobbed at candidates on campaign stops; election-related brawls are common. At a bar in downtown Nairobi known for its political banter, a police officer in the governing party recently fired tear gas at patrons who were too effusive in their praise of the opposition.
Already, there have been reports -- hard, as always in Kenya, to verify -- of voter cards being bought and sold, of the names of perhaps a million dead people still on the voter rolls and of thugs intimidating those who might think of voting independently.
The biggest fear, however, is a last-minute round of the ethnic violence that marred the last two presidential contests. In all, thousands of people were killed in the 1992 and 1997 campaigns.
With a first name that means freedom in Swahili, Mr. Kenyatta, 42, is a political novice who regards that term as a badge of honor in a political system so full of rot. Yet Mr. Kenyatta has surrounded himself with some of Mr. Moi's closest cronies and he has promised to keep Mr. Moi's recently chosen vice president, Musalia Mudavadi, as his own.
"We have to forget the past, however bitter we may be," Mr. Kenyatta said as he kicked off his campaign recently in Nairobi.
Mr. Kibaki, by contrast, is 71. He once served Mr. Moi as vice president, but formed his own opposition party in 1991, citing electoral malfeasance by the governing party as well as the suspicious killing of the foreign minister at the time.
Both main candidates are Kikuyus, Kenya's largest tribe, which has helped diffuse some of the ethnic tension that surrounds any political contest here. But political rifts still bristle.
When Mr. Kibaki's Range Rover went into a ditch this week, many of his supporters instantly thought of sabotage; but the accident, which killed two people, has since been proclaimed by the opposition to be just that. Mr. Kibaki, who suffered some broken bones, is expected to return to the campaign trail soon.
Mr. Kibaki finished a close second to Mr. Moi in 1997, and a distant third five years earlier. This time, he is given a better chance because the opposition has united into what its members call the "Rainbow" coalition. Recent polling puts Mr. Kibaki, who has made a big issue of the corruption under Mr. Moi, ahead of Mr. Kenyatta. 
"We don't want to be ruled anymore by those who dictate, declare orders and issue instructions," Mr. Kibaki said at a recent campaign appearance. "We want to be ruled by the law. The word corruption doesn't capture what's going on here. You have to use the Kiswahili word wizi, which means stealing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Uhuru Kenyatta, whose poster adorns a wall in Mombasa, is the candidate of Kenya's governing party and the favorite of the current president, Daniel arap Moi. He is the son of Kenya's first president, Jomo Kenyatta. (Francesco Broli for The New York Times); United States marines, above, are currently taking part in joint maneuvers with Kenyan military units along Kenya's coast. Some analysts say Kenya's pro-Western ways have led it to become a terrorist target. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CORRUPTION (86%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ETHICS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (62%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (59%)

PERSON: MWAI KIBAKI (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) MOI, DANIEL ARAP (PRES); KENYATTA, UHURU; KIBAKI, MWAI; LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%) KENYA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



144 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Chavez's Foes Plan to Extend General Strike In Venezuela 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Government opponents said tonight that they were extending a paralyzing general strike into a fourth day, possibly damaging informal agreements made earlier today between the government and its foes in discussions mediated by the Organization of American States, people involved in the talks said.
 The strike by Venezuelan businessmen and workers opposed to the left-leaning government of President Hugo Chavez threatens to cripple the Venezuelan economy, Latin America's fourth largest, and disrupt oil supplies to the United States. This evening, the captain of a tanker carrying 280,000 barrels of refined gasoline for the domestic market told a Venezuelan television network he was anchoring his ship in the middle of the Lake Maracaibo shipping channel, possibly blocking a key route for oil tankers. 
 "This government is pushing us into a situation like Cuba," Daniel Alfaro, the captain of the Pili Leon, told the Globovision network in justifying his action. Oil analysts also said tugboat captains who help guide tankers were walking off the job, while other state oil company facilities were reporting slowdowns. 
Government officials have called the strike a thinly disguised effort to overthrow Mr. Chavez, and they played down its effects on the economy and the oil industry, contending that few people have gone on strike. Still, the government had been pressing the opposition, in informal talks on Tuesday and today, to end the walkout, which began Monday.
The announcement by business and labor leaders that the strike would continue through at least Thursday caught the government and some anti-Chavez leaders by surprise, said those close to the talks.
The United States and the United Nations have urged both sides to return to talks.
In informal discussions, Mr. Chavez's government had said that it would not block a nonbinding referendum on Feb. 2 that would allow Venezuelans to vote on whether they want Mr. Chavez to remain president, even though it was fundamentally opposed to such a move. The government had also signaled that it would be open to talks about changing the Constitution to allow early presidential elections.
Opponents of the government had been pressing Mr. Chavez, whose four years in office have been marked by political unrest and a sliding economy, to enter negotiations about a nonbinding referendum or early elections in exchange for an end to the strike.
"They expected the strike to last just 72 hours," said one person close to the talks. "But now it looks like it is an indefinite strike."
Earlier in the day, Cesar Gaviria, secretary general of the Organization of American States, said "both parts have made important advances." Later, however, he appeared grim.
"We have to wait and see how this polarizes the situation between the government and the opposition," he said. "This can make the situation much more tense."
Indeed, people close to the talks said the government was taken aback when leaders of the Democratic Coordinator, an anti-Chavez umbrella group of business organizations, labor leaders and politicians, announced on national television tonight that the strike would continue. High-ranking opposition members involved in the talks had told reporters that the government had made enough gestures to warrant an end to the walkout.
Those included plans to return control of the Caracas police, which had been in the hands of the central government, to the mayor, and pulling troops off the capital's streets.
"The strike has achieved its objective," said Manuel Cova, secretary general of the Venezuelan Workers Confederation, who was involved in the talks. "For me it is enough."
Formal talks had broken off last Saturday, after the emboldened opposition refused to call off plans for its fourth general strike in a year. But on Tuesday, with National Guard troops firing tear gas at antigovernment protesters, discussions aimed at ending the strike began. 
Although the two sides had not discussed the referendum or early elections in a formal sense, people close to the talks said the government would not block an early nonbinding referendum, as long as the Supreme Court permitted it. 
Mr. Chavez had consistently rejected such a vote, saying it was unconstitutional. He has said the opposition should simply wait for a binding referendum on his rule in August -- halfway through his term, as permitted by law.
But on Tuesday the country's electoral board announced that it had voted 4 to 1 in favor of a nonbinding referendum for Feb. 2, overcoming an earlier Supreme Court ruling that would have banned such a vote. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); STRIKES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BULK SHIPPING (76%); TRENDS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); LAKES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) STRIKES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (91%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%) FORERO, JUAN; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



145 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: White House Defends Return To Appointees' Cash Bonuses 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The White House today defended its decision to authorize cash bonuses for political appointees, as Democrats in Congress condemned the policy shift as "a slap in the face" to hundreds of thousands of career civil servants.
 The Democrats, reeling from their electoral losses last month, seized on the issue in an effort to depict the White House as hostile to the interests of rank-and-file workers. 
A group of 89 House Democrats attacked the plan in a letter to President Bush. 
Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee accused Mr. Bush of showering his "political pals with cash," while Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, called the bonuses "a glaring example of this administration's misplaced priorities." 
The White House has decided to make several thousand political appointees across the federal government eligible for annual bonuses of as much as $25,000. 
Civil servants were previously eligible for such awards, but the Clinton administration banned them for senior political appointees in 1994 after questions were raised about bonuses for advisers to Mr. Bush's father, President George Bush. 
A previously undisclosed directive in March from the White House chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr., reversing that ban, is now being put into effect throughout the government.
The Justice Department and other agencies have started doling out awards in recent weeks to political appointees, who typically earn $115,000 to $140,000 and often play a vital, behind-the-scenes role in influencing policy and strategy.
White House officials said they had no intention of backing away from the new policy.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, told reporters today that "federal workers deserve to be rewarded for good work, and there should not be a distinction between those who do good work because they're civil and those who do good work because they're appointed."
"Good work is good work," Mr. Fleischer said, "and good work by the federal government's employees, all of whom are paid by the taxpayers, should be rewarded." 
He said the bonuses would be an incentive for the "hardest working employees who are able to do the most concrete, measurable work on behalf of the taxpayers." 
Although Bush administration officials say they do not know how many political appointees have received bonuses under the new policy, Mr. Fleischer predicted that few of the more than 2,100 newly eligible employees would get them. 
Mr. Fleischer said White House appointees would remain ineligible for awards.
Democrats in Congress said they found the plan particularly troubling because it was disclosed just days after the White House announced it was reducing raises that Congress had sought for employees within the federal work force of 1.8 million people. 
In reducing the salary adjustment to 3.1 percent from 4.1 percent, the White House said the government could not afford the higher increase because of the cost of the war on terrorism and the "national emergency" since the September 2001 terrorist attacks. 
In addition, the White House moved last month to place as many as 850,000 government jobs up for competition from private contractors. Democrats in Congress have also blamed Republicans and the White House for the failure to extend unemployment benefits to hundreds of thousands of people past Dec. 28. 
In their letter, the 89 House Democrats, including Representative Nancy Pelosi, the new minority leader, and other senior members, voiced their "strongest objections" to the reduced raises. 
Representative George Miller of California, who is the ranking Democrat on the House education and work force committee and who spearheaded the letter, said the decision to award bonuses to political appointees who had excelled in the war on terrorism ignored the achievements of civil servants since the 2001 attacks.
"Somehow their recognition is that they get a pay cut, but the political appointees get a bonus," Mr. Miller said in an interview. "It's a terrible signal when you're trying to build esprit de corps with a new homeland defense agency."
The incoming House Democratic whip, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, who also signed the letter, said he considered the revival of political bonuses to be a self-interested and hypocritical move by the White House and a slap in the face to civil servants.
Mr. Hoyer said in an interview that if the White House intended to use the bonuses as a back-end way to raise the pay of political appointees and to take away money from the bonus pools used to reward career employees, "that's going to be unacceptable."
He and other Democrats promised to examine the bonus plan to determine who received awards, how the various departments intended to pay for the bonuses, how the White House decided to change the policy and why Congress had not been informed.
"I would have liked to have known about this beforehand," Mr. Hoyer said. "It's ironic that that those of us who are very much involved in Civil Service have to read about it in the newspaper." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOM DASCHLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



146 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE REFUGEES; 
Uprooted Iraqis See War as Path To Lost Homes

BYLINE:  By C. J. CHIVERS 

DATELINE: BARDA QARAMAN CAMP, Iraq, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
One element of the misery caused by President Saddam Hussein's rule was evident on Tuesday evening, when a wealthy Kurdish man donated meat to this encampment of people Mr. Hussein has forced from their homes. 
 Using a rickety balance scale, 73 families divided the meat into 73 portions. It worked out to a few ounces per tent, a bite or two per person for the coming Islamic festival of Id al-Fitr. 
 "Animals live better than us," said Farhod Muhammad Karim, who lives with his seven children in something akin to a mud-brick box. "I want to go home." 
Mr. Karim and his children represent a drop in a human tide, held back now by the enduring power of Mr. Hussein, but ready to burst out. These days he paces the chill and squalor of Barda Qaraman, but his real home is in Kirkuk, on the other side of the front lines dividing Iraq into north and south. He plans to head back.
During decades of dictatorial rule, as many as a million people have been relocated inside Iraq, aid organizations say. In tours this week of Barda Qaraman and two other camps where displaced people live, the most consistent voice was the people's collective pledge to return to their former residences in the aftermath of a war they await.
Much of the political preparation for war within Iraq has involved diplomatic efforts to keep opposition parties and their fighters in check, and to keep them from seizing important cities. 
But there is another possibility: that popular sentiment will release forces independent of military plans and that if a time comes when the Iraqi Army appears defeated, untold thousands of people will take to the roads in spontaneous migrations to reclaim businesses and homes.
"Iraq has been a giant social engineering project," said Peter Bouckaert, a researcher for Human Rights Watch who recently surveyed the Kurdish camps. "People have been moved around and bused around all over the country, in a serial displacement, and when they start going home they are going to displace other people. There is going to be a domino effect."
Mr. Bouckaert said there had been little preparation for what might follow, and the possibilities are worrisome. "What creates an explosive situation is when abused people go home and find other people in their homes," he said. "That is a very difficult situation to control."
The internal refugees scattered through Iraq are a result of varied efforts by Mr. Hussein and his Arab Baath Socialist Party to dominate his nation.
Some relocation programs have aimed to create Arab majorities near oil fields, to secure control of economic assets. Others have been devised to subdue insurgencies or political opposition. Kurds say the often savage uprootings of villages also spring from a deep racist streak in Mr. Hussein and his confidants, who regard the nation's Shiite Muslims, Turkmen, Kurds and Assyrian Christians as inferior to the ruling class of Sunni Muslim Arabs.
Whatever their rationale, the policies have had similar effects. Through forcible expulsion or leverage gained by stripping families of identities, property documents and food ration cards, the central government has sent huge sections of its citizenry into destitution and camps. Barda Qaraman, a squalid settlement of about 450 Kurds, is a destination for victims of all types.
Mr. Karim said Baath officials had told him to "correct" his ethnicity on a government form, declaring that he was an Arab who had mistakenly been living as a Kurd. He refused and was expelled. "Either you change your identity to an Arab or you have to leave," he said.
Hikmat Muhammad, 45, said he had been expelled after he would not provide Iraqi intelligence agents information about his neighbors. 
Muhammad Karim Aziz, 60, said the Baath party had forced him from his home after two of his sons had joined the pesh merga, the guerrilla fighters who harass Iraq's army. "They gave me a choice: either call your sons home or leave," he said. "If I called back my sons, they would have killed them."
Talib Muhammad Said, 57, is the newest arrival, having walked into camp last month with his four children after his oldest son, Sherzad, left Abu Ghraib prison in a wide-scale release of inmates.
The party called the release an amnesty and said his son was free. Rejoicing at Sherzad's return was cut short when security officers arrived at his father's house. "They said: 'Your son has been in prison. You are a bad family. You have to leave,' " Mr. Said recalled.
Having no tent, the family huddled in a room in an abandoned school.
None of these people expressed any interest in violence, and Kurdish officials, noting that, said chaos was not inevitable in case of war. 
Barham Salih, prime minister of the eastern side of the Kurdish enclave, said he thought Kurds would not slip into retaliation, in part because many Arabs who had occupied Kurdish homes would leave before Kurds returned, but also because the nation was weary of bloodletting, and of policies that pit Iraqis against each other. "We want Kirkuk to be a place, a monument, to the failure of ethnic cleansing in the world," Mr. Salih said.
But he also said that the force of popular will could be irresistible. "We will not, and in my opinion no one can, prevent people from seeking their properties and their homes," he said.
Kirkuk is but one example, because displacement is not isolated to Iraq's northern zone. Aid organizations say Kurds have been also bused to southern provinces. The government has also drained waterways along the southern part of the Iranian border, where so-called marsh Arabs have lived for 5,000 years, and largely scattered the population. Turkmen, Assyrians and Shiite Muslims have been victims as well.
How many people are displaced remains unknown. A report in October by the Brookings Institution noted that the best estimates suggest that 500,000 to 800,000 displaced people live in the north, and 300,000 in areas under the control of Mr. Hussein's government.
It is similarly impossible to know how many of those people will try to return to their homes. But if interviews in camps are a guide, sentiments were nearly unanimous.
In the nearby Takia camp, Neimat Sadiq Muhammad, 46, who was forced out of Kirkuk six months ago after her sons deserted the Iraqi Army, was counting the days for Mr. Hussein to fall. "We will walk, we will run, we will jog, all the way back to our houses," she said. "As soon as there is no danger, we will leave this place."
Even in the newly built Sapareen housing complex -- a United Nations project where homes are modern in every way, with plumbing, glass windows, a septic system, steel doors and a walled front yard -- there was an ache for something else.
Samad Jabar moved his family in 11 days ago. Though he has a job in nearby Sulaimaniya, and now a respectable home, he said he would leave as soon as he could. "It is true that this is nice," he said. "But only your real home is beautiful. This is not my real home."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women baked bread for their neighbors in a mud hut kitchen at the Barda Qaraman camp, which is home to about 450 Kurdish refugees. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Farhod Muhammad Karim, 47, above, with glasses, lives with his seven children at Barda Qaraman refugee camp in northern Iraq. Below, men wait for food distribution. Each of 73 families at the camp received a few ounces of lamb for the Islamic festival of Id al-Fitr. The central government of Iraq has sent huge sections of its citizenry into destitution and camps. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A26) Map of Iraq highlighting Barda Qaraman: The Barda Qaraman camp houses Kurds driven out of Kirkuk. (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAMADAN (90%); POLITICS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (85%); FAMILY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ARMIES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); RELIGION (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); ENGINEERING (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%) KURDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%) CHIVERS, C J; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BOUCKAERT, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



147 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-22

Iraq Assails Inspectors For Unannounced Search
The first week of United Nations weapons inspections ended with a furious Iraqi condemnation of the inspectors for having insisted on a no-notice search of one of Saddam Hussein's palaces. Iraq also denied again that it possessed any nuclear, chemical or biological arms. A1

U.S. Gathering NATO Support
The United States asked individual NATO nations to contribute forces to a potential military campaign to topple Saddam Hussein. The request coincided with a White House invitation to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of Turkey's new ruling Islamic party, to meet with President Bush within a week. A27

Criticism for North Korea
The White House issued a muted criticism of North Korea, calling it "disappointing" that Pyongyang had rejected a demand to inspect the country's newly revealed program to develop a nuclear weapon from highly enriched uranium. A24

Sharon Talks About U.S. Plan
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon offered tentative backing for a United States "road map" to an Israeli-Palestinian peace, including creating a Palestinian state covering part of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. But he couched that support in a series of strict conditions, including the removal of the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat. A12

A Turbulent Change in Kenya
Daniel arap Moi, supreme ruler of Kenya and one of Africa's longest surviving leaders, is expected to cede power this month in an election that many see as a test of the viability of democracy across the continent. Mr. Moi arrives in Washington today for a meeting with President Bush. A3

U.S. Aid to Colombia
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said that the United States would increase military assistance to Colombia, and he asserted that its war on guerrillas, paramilitary groups and drug trafficking was part of the Bush administration's campaign against terrorism. A14

NATIONAL A28-41

Pentagon Prepares to Call 10,000 Reserve Troops
The Pentagon is preparing for a major call-up of National Guard and Reserve troops, a move that would fill military jobs that would be critical if the United States goes to war against Iraq, Defense Department officials said. A1

Panel Allows Bankruptcy
The Finance Council of the Archdiocese of Boston will allow the church to seek bankruptcy protection as a way of dealing with the lawsuits it faces over sexual abuse by priests. A1

Families Face Loss of Heat
Chicago social service agencies say people are seeking help in paying their heating bills earlier this year because of a stagnant economy. A28

Scholar Stays at Harvard
Henry Louis Gates Jr., the chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard, turned down an offer to jump to Princeton. A28

Contribution Law Debated
A special appeals court heard arguments over whether a new law limiting political donations was a boon to democracy or whether it violated the Constitution's guarantee of free speech. A30

White House Defends Bonuses
The White House defended its decision to authorize bonuses for political appointees and Democrats in Congress condemned the policy. A37

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Scientists Map Mouse Genome
An analysis of the mouse genome by an international consortium of scientists shows it is so similar to that of people that it should accelerate efforts to understand the human genome and the roots of disease. A1

Rethinking Heart Treatments
Two new studies are likely to upset medical dogma on treating atrial fibrillation, a common irregularity of the heartbeat that can lead to strokes and other complications. A41

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Dismissal to Be Sought In Jogger Case Convictions
The Manhattan district attorney has decided to call for the dismissal of the convictions against five men in the 1989 Central Park jogger case, including all charges that they participated in a gang rape and a rampage of muggings, according to two law enforcement officials who have read the legal papers. A1

Ex-Officer Cleared in Death
A surprise twist has led to the dismissal of charges in the murder case against James Andros 3rd, a former Atlantic City police officer accused of killing his wife. B1

Baby Stabbed to Death in Bronx
A 11-month-old baby was stabbed to death in an apartment in the Bronx, and neighbors said the police later told them that his mother had thrown herself in front of a subway train, killing herself. B1

Fans Urge End to Vigil Curfew
Fans of John Lennon are urging Mayor Bloomberg to restore the annual vigils marking the singer's death to their original status as all-night events. B4

Neediest Cases B8

CIRCUITS G1-12

HOUSE & HOME F1-16

ARTS E1-12

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B11

Patrick J. Cunningham
The last of a line of Irish Catholic clubhouse politicians to lead the Bronx Democratic Party until he faced several state and federal investigations, he was 74. B11

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

United's Loan Aid Rejected
A federal panel rejected a plea by United Airlines for $1.8 billion in loan guarantees. United executives said they would try to avoid a bankruptcy filing, but analysts said the decision all but ensured that United will have to seek court protection. A1

United's employees have an awful sense of foreboding about the fate of their once-proud airline. They expect to continue working if there is a bankruptcy filing, but there could be lost jobs and health benefits. C1

No Broadband Revolution
Analysts do not expect broadband access in the majority of homes for at least five years, so no company can expect to base a mass-market business on broadband anytime soon. C5

Doubts About Disney
The first major flop of the holiday movie season, Walt Disney's animated "Treasure Planet," has led some in Hollywood to suspect that the legendary Disney animation division is running out of gas. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A42-43

Editorials: The church and Chapter 11; justice in Egypt; fanning vaccine fears; a cold snap.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E9
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather D9
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RELIGION (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); LITIGATION (70%); TERRORISM (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); KENYA (92%); TURKEY (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



148 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ASIAN ARENA; 
U.S. Criticizes North Korea For Rejecting Inspections

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The White House issued a muted criticism of North Korea today, saying it was "disappointing" that North Korea had rejected a demand for inspections of its newly revealed program to develop nuclear weapons from highly enriched uranium.
 The demand came from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the nuclear inspection and regulatory organization linked to the United Nations. 
 The White House comments appeared to be part of a strategy to defuse any sense of imminent confrontation with North Korea, which the Central Intelligence Agency believes is still a few years away from producing a nuclear weapon from its uranium program.
President Bush issued a statement last month assuring North Korea that the United States had no intention of invading it, and saying he was seeking a "diplomatic solution" to the situation caused by its nuclear revelations. 
Nonetheless, the White House statement today was in sharp contrast to its responses about the inspection of Iraq's suspected weapons sites. At a briefing with reporters, Ari Fleischer, the president's press secretary, insisted that the United States did not employ a double standard in dealing with countries developing weapons of mass destruction.
"Not every policy needs to be put into a photocopier," Mr. Fleischer said today. He argued that Iraq had repeatedly defied United Nations Security Council resolutions, and said "that is not the case in North Korea."
In 1994, North Korea engaged in a lengthy struggle with the Security Council over a previous nuclear project, and the Council threatened to impose penalities on it. But the Council never formally voted on a resolution because the confrontation, which led President Bill Clinton to reinforce American troops in South Korea, was averted with an agreement that North Korea would freeze its nuclear activity.
North Korea's statement today was in response to a resolution passed last month by the atomic energy agency, urging the country to "give up any nuclear weapons programs expeditiously" and open "all relevant facilities to I.A.E.A. inspection and safeguards." American intelligence officials say they are still uncertain where those facilities are.
In a response today, North Korea's foreign minister, Paek Nam Sun, called the resolution "extremely unilateral," and added, that "the government cannot accept" it, according to the official Korean Central News Agency.
A spokesman for the atomic energy agency said agency officials felt "deep concern" about the North Korean refusal, which appeared to follow the script of the 1994 crisis, when North Korea declined to allow inspectors in until it had won some concessions from the West.
But the White House did not condemn the action, and issued no warnings of the consequences of refusing inspections. "Their rejection of the I.A.E.A. resolution to open its facilities," Mr. Fleischer said, "is another disappointing example of North Korea's isolationism, which will only hurt the people of North Korea." 
When asked what steps the United States would take, he said "We are working with our regional partners to try to find a peaceful solution to this issue."
American officials, when speaking with the promise of anonymity, say they have little choice but to pursue a strategy markedly different from the one used with Iraq.
Iraq has little power to strike back at neighboring countries, they point out, while North Korea could cause great damage to Seoul, the capital of South Korea. Moreover, the White House appears convinced that North Korea's economic condition has weakened so much that it is vulnerable to economic pressures to a degree that Iraq is not.
Mr. Fleischer offered another reason today. "Iraq, of course, does have a history that North Korea does not have of engaging in war against its neighbors," he said, "in resorting to the deadly use of massive force, including weapons of mass destruction against its neighbors, including the invasion of sovereign nations."
Mr. Fleischer was presumably speaking about North Korea's history in recent decades; it invaded South Korea in 1950. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); NEWS REPORTING (72%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; URANIUM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



149 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE ALLIES; 
U.S. Asks NATO Nations to Offer Forces for an Iraq Campaign

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The United States asked individual NATO nations today to contribute forces to a potential military campaign to topple Saddam Hussein.
 The request, which was made by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz at NATO headquarters here, is part of the Bush administration's strategy to build a broad international coalition for a possible Iraq campaign. It coincided with a White House invitation today to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of the largest party in Turkey's new governing coalition, a party with Islamic roots, to meet with President Bush. American officials expect him to visit next week. 
 Long a vital United States ally, Turkey has emerged as a key participant in a potential military campaign, and Mr. Erdogan -- who was jailed by the Turkish authorities in 1998 for reading an Islamic poem and is still barred by law from serving in the government he oversees from the sidelines -- has become a cherished, if unlikely partner. 
Washington's standing in the Muslim world could benefit it it is seen as working closely and effectively with a popular Muslim leader like Mr. Erdogan. Moreover, United States officials appear to be counting on Mr. Erdogan to overrule aides within the government who are worried about forging too close an alignment with Washington in its fight with Mr. Hussein.
The American request for military assistance seemed to mark a shift from the position taken by President Bush in a speech to NATO leaders in Prague just two weeks ago. Then, Mr. Bush emphasized the need for NATO to transform itself from a lumbering cold-war force into a structure better suited to the war on terror. But he did not ask NATO nations for contributions of materiel or manpower to a war on Iraq.
The evolving strategy on Iraq also differs considerably from the early days of the United States intervention in Afghanistan, when the Pentagon argued that it was easier for the United States and a few key allies to handle the operation than to try to coordinate a diverse alliance. For the Afghan campaign, NATO contributed some airborne warning and control (Awacs) reconaissance aircraft to patrol the skies over the United States. NATO had no formal role in the Persian Gulf war.
In a possible Iraq campaign, however, the Bush administration has decided to seek broad international support in the United Nations and elsewhere. One reason is that the United States is seeking access to Turkey and the Persian Gulf states for help in a military campaign. Those nations will go along, provided they are seen as contributing to a broad international effort to disarm Iraq and not just to a unilateral American effort.
After his presentation at NATO headquarters today, Mr. Wolfowitz said a number of nations appeared to be interested in sending forces, including Britain, Spain, Portugal and Denmark. Many of them might not be cast in a direct combat role, however. Mr. Wolfowitz said it was too soon to tell how the organization as a whole might respond. 
A NATO role in a campaign against Iraq would extend the organization's reach well beyond its traditional region. American officials have suggested that the NATO role might be justified as an effort to defend Turkey, which is a NATO ally and a major focus of the administration's current diplomatic efforts. 
The administration has a good deal of diplomatic ground to cover in its efforts to gain full cooperation from Turkey in the event of an Iraq conflict.
On Tuesday, for example, Turkey's foreign minister, Yasir Yakis, said the deployment of a significant number of American troops in Turkey would be politically unsustainable. He also said a new United Nations Security Council resolution must be passed authorizing force before an American attack could be mounted from Turkish soil. 
Both positions seriously complicate the Pentagon's planning. Washington insists that United Nations Resolution 1441, which outlines the Security Council's demands for determining that Iraq has abandoned its programs to develop weapons of mass destruction, provides all the authority needed for military action, if Baghdad fails to comply.
"It is an important question, and it is one that we need to clarify within the highest levels of both governments," Mr. Wolfowitz said, speaking about the question of whether a new resolution would be needed. "It is one reason why we hope that Mr. Erdogan can come to Washington." 
Since coming to power, Mr. Erdogan's Muslim-based party has installed moderates in key positions, and Mr. Erdogan has courted European leaders in an effort to gain entry into the European Union. Still, there seems to be some lingering European suspicion of Mr. Erdogan, the former mayor of Istanbul.
"During his term as mayor, Erdogan had overseen major improvements in municipal services and infrastructure," according to a recent paper by the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. "But he had shunned Istanbul's large Western diplomatic and journalist community, forbidden alcohol at all facilities owned by the municipality, cited the Koran as his sole reference and once famously described democracy as a vehicle which one rides as far as one's destination before alighting." 
Seeking to counter that image, Mr. Wolfowitz, in a speech in London on Monday, described Mr. Erdogan and his followers as the harbingers of a new kind of Muslim party. It is a party, he said, that respected democratic principles, favored economic reforms and had support from the voters because of demands for competent and honest government. 
"Most informed observers agree that in this election Turks were casting their votes for the concept of responsible and accountable representation," he said. "It has repeatedly expressed its support for the separation of religion and the state, which is the basis of Turkish democracy." 
Certainly, Washington is looking to Mr. Erdogan to close ranks on Iraq. The conversation will dwell heavily on how much economic assistance the United States might provide as well as Washington's efforts to persuade the European Union to set a date for negotiations on Turkey's eventual membership. Both items will be on the agenda if Mr. Erdogran meets Mr. Bush, along with prospects for a settlement of the Cyprus conflict. 
Mr. Wolfowitz indicated that the NATO alliance could help in Iraq in several ways. First, he said, the alliance could contribute "NATO assets," like Awacs planes or minesweepers. NATO nations, he said, could also provide access to airfields and airspace.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Two articles on Wednesday -- one about the efforts of Greek and Turkish Cypriots to mend their divisions and one about President Bush's meeting with the leader of Turkey's governing party -- referred incorrectly to the Turkish government. (Articles on Dec. 5, 8 and 9 about Turkey's role in preparations for a possible war on Iraq also included the error.) Turkey is governed by the Justice and Development Party alone; the party won an overwhelming election victory in November.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An American F-16 flew past the control tower at the Incirlik air base in Turkey. The United States wants Turkish help if there is an attack on Iraq. (Mark Simon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); RELIGION (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ERDOGAN, RECEP TAYYIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (96%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (91%); SPAIN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); BELGIUM (58%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



150 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE IMPACT; 
Loan Denied, Survival Effort Turns Urgent

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD with RIVA D. ATLAS 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Having focused attention in recent weeks on the gamble that United Airlines could somehow obtain loan guarantees from a skeptical federal board, Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive, appears certain to lose an even bigger bet: keeping his carrier out of bankruptcy court.
 Despite vows by United and its unions to pull together with whatever resources they can amass to keep the airline afloat, bankruptcy experts and United's competitors maintain that a bankruptcy filing is inevitable and will come within days. 
 And although United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, has been working with its lawyers for months on a reorganization plan, Mr. Tilton's to-do list has several tasks that have yet to be completed. 
Mr. Tilton failed to obtain concessions from United's mechanics, who were the only holdouts in the airline's bid for employee backing of its recovery plan. They rejected the airline's first request for wage and benefit cuts and canceled a second vote planned for Thursday after the loan-guarantee board's decision. Because all the employees' concessions were linked to approval of its loan application, United must now craft new deals with all its unions in its restructuring drive.
Though discussions with lenders have been under way for weeks, the airline has not lined up the $2 billion in debtor-in-possession financing that it will need to run its day-to-day operations, although many bankruptcy experts see a financing agreement as a foregone conclusion. 
While most leases on United's jets have been renegotiated, some holdouts remain, raising the possibility, albeit remote, that some could march into court and demand their planes back.
And Mr. Tilton does not have the prospect of any kind of partner that could swoop in and rescue United. None of its fellow players in the Star Alliance -- Air Canada, the Brazilian carrier Varig or Lufthansa of Germany -- have the resources to do the job, despite their expressions of moral support.
The rejection by the federal air board makes a bankruptcy filing for United all but inevitable, bankruptcy lawyers and analysts said. James J. White, a professor at the University of Michigan School of Law, predicted the airline would be in court by early next week.
One motivating factor is a looming $375 million payment on debt backed by aircraft, which the airline missed this week. A grace period on that payment ends Dec. 16.
Philip Baggaley, a credit analyst with Standard & Poor's, said United would file for Chapter 11 as soon as it secures debtor-in-possession financing, which Professor White expects to be arranged quickly now that the application for federal loan guarantees has been rejected.
Professor White said the size of the financing, which United will use to pay for its immediate needs, was less important than its symbolism to its vendors, like fuel suppliers. "The real significance of it is not for someone to lend you a lot of money but to appear to be willing to do so," he said. "And therefore the guy pumping gas for you in Omaha will keep doing it because he's more confident that he will be paid."
One immediate concern for the airline would be the location of a bankruptcy filing. Probable places include Delaware, where it is incorporated, or Chicago, which is close to United's headquarters in the suburbs and also home to Kirkland & Ellis, the law firm that has been exploring a reorganization for the airline.
That effort is being headed by James Sprayregen, a partner in the firm, who could not be reached for comment tonight. While a Chicago filing could be most convenient, it is also probable that United employees would fill the courtroom, creating a potentially contentious atmosphere.
A bankruptcy filing is not easy even for the most prepared airlines. "I've seen a lot of Chapter 11's, and no one is the same," Douglas Steenland, the president of Northwest Airlines, said in an interview this afternoon. "A lot depends on individualized decisions by the team that is running the airline." Mr. Steenland, who is a lawyer, had roles in several airline bankruptcies over the last 15 years.
As proof, he said the industry need only consider the experience of US Airways, which filed for Chapter 11 two months ago in a prepackaged bankruptcy with the help of Texas Pacific Group. US Airways had an advantage that United did not have, the conditional approval of $900 million in federal loan guarantees.
Despite that, it has sliced spending even deeper than it originally anticipated, eliminated routes, closed maintenance operations and gone back to its unions for more concessions, only to have its employees dig in their heels.
Labor issues would be a focal point in a United bankruptcy, posing the ultimate test of Mr. Tilton's belief in employee ownership.
United is 55 percent owned by its employees, which have three representatives on its board. In seeking an initial round of concessions, the airline promised that it would not seek to void its contracts in bankruptcy court unless faced with dire circumstances that threatened its existence.
It did not spell out what those circumstances would be, and the guarantee hinged on United's ability to win approval for the loan guarantees. Now, given its inability thus far to tie up all its loose ends, that issue could be raised as soon as its lawyers walk into court.
A request by United to cancel its labor agreements, for which it would have to spell out specific reasons, would be "exquisitely ironic" given its governance structure, said David Gregory, professor of labor law at St. John's University in Queens. "It would be a basic repudiation of the concept of the employee enterprise," he said. 
In bankruptcy, he added, United would face "a real obligation now to moderate labor costs, and layoffs alone will not take care of that."
Even with that question looming, United would face more mundane tasks as it arrives in court. On the first day, United would ask the judge to issue orders that allow crucial vendors, like fuel suppliers, caterers and travel agents to be paid, Mr. Steenland said. The airline would pledge to honor all tickets that had been issued for future flights and also create a trust fund so that tax revenues due to local airport authorities and governments would be paid.
Such minutiae helps explain in part why United's management may have preferred to focus on winning approval for loan guarantees rather than on a bankruptcy filing. Now, however, that decision could complicate United's efforts to reorganize speedily, said one person briefed on the company's financial strategy.
"The C.E.O. appears to have been putting all his eggs in one basket," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photo: "United May Join Other Airlines in Bankruptcy "Airlines are vulnerable to bankruptcy because profit margins are small, competition is fierce and they have high fixed costs. As a result, when customers cut back on travel during slower economic times, the most vulnerable airlines often run out of cash. Here are the biggest passenger airline bankruptcies since 1989 and how United would compare. The size of the circles represents prebankruptcy assets. Uniteds assets are based on thirdquarter figures. Airlines that are still operating independently are in bold. Chart shows the biggest passenger airline bankruptcies since 1989 in comparison to United.(Sources: Bankruptcydata.com; Eclat Consulting; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT; FINANCES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (58%); AIR CANADA (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (59%) UNITED AIRLINES; UAL CORP; AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (58%); GOL (NYSE) (58%); AC.A (TSX) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (90%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE; ATLAS, RIVA D; TILTON, GLENN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



151 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE RIVALS; 
Competitors, Savoring Vote, Look for Way To Benefit

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT and EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
Executives at other airlines savored the federal government's rejection of United Airlines' request for a loan guarantee last night, after some of them had lobbied intensely against any bailout.
 "At the end of the day, it's good for our industry, and it's good for the American people," Gordon M. Bethune, chief executive of Continental Airlines, said last night, talking about the rejection of the loan application. 
 United's competitors are likely to steal some of the airline's passengers as it struggles to restore its finances and suffers through the distraction and publicity of a probable bankruptcy filing, industry analysts said. American Airlines, United's main rival in Chicago and one of its chief competitors in California, stands to benefit the most, analysts said. 
But the biggest prize would be United's rights to fly overseas routes, which a judge could order the company to sell if it files for bankruptcy protection. The jewel in United's system is its extensive schedule of flights across the Pacific to Asia, much of it acquired in 1985 when United bought the rights to fly those routes from a struggling Pan American World Airways.
Over the last week, United's rivals sent their own financial analyses of the airline's condition to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, the federal body created after the Sept. 11 attacks to help the industry. The executives argued that United's business was broken and that the $1.8 billion in loan guarantees it sought would end up being wasted, ultimately to be paid by taxpayers.
Douglas M. Steenland, the president of Northwest Airlines, praised the board for doing "an incredible amount of work" and called its decision "the right one."
In the coming months, the loan rejection and even a bankruptcy filing are likely to lead to some cutbacks in service at United, which is based outside of Chicago and has a major hub at O'Hare International Airport there, but travelers should expect the airline to maintain most of its routes, travel agents said. US Airways is already in bankruptcy protection, and Continental emerged from earlier bankruptcies to become one of the industry's stronger carriers, the agents said.
"In the near term, it will mean nothing for travelers," said Hal F. Rosenbluth, the chairman of Rosenbluth International, a large travel agency based in Philadelphia. "The stigma of an airline bankruptcy has, for all intents and purposes, lost its negativity over the years."
Industry executives said they had expected the government board to reject United's request and were surprised only by its timing. Others noted that the letter from the board to Frederic Brace, United's chief financial officer, was both detailed and blunt in its criticism of the company's business plan.
Many analysts had expected the board to delay its decision until United's mechanics had voted on concessions that they rejected earlier. That vote, which was scheduled for today, was called off last night. 
"I was a little surprised they didn't wait," said C. Thomas Nulty, president of Navigant International, a travel agency based in Denver. "But I guess they decided that even if it went United's way it wouldn't have made a difference."
United executives, while vowing to do everything they can to avoid bankruptcy, say that their rivals opposed the loan guarantee primarily so that they could benefit from the company's troubles. Last night, the company's supporters expressed disappointment with the decision.
J. Dennis Hastert, the Republican from Illinois who is speaker of the House, "thought United presented a fair and balanced proposal to the board," according to Peter M. Jeffries, a spokesman.
As the nation's second-biggest airline, after American, United is "too important to the traveling public" to be put at risk when the economy is weak and the holiday travel season is coming, Mr. Jeffries added.
Aside from incremental gains in market share, other airlines might most benefit from United's woes by buying some of its international routes. Airlines approved by safety regulators have free rein to fly within the United States, except at a few crowded airports, but international flights are restricted by trade agreements.
United has a relatively large number of flights to Asia and Latin America and a good number of flights to Europe as well.
Both American and Delta Air Lines have tried in recent years to win new rights to fly to Asia and would probably be among the most eager bidders if United is forced to sell its Pacific route system.
"That asset has great value," Mr. Nulty said, "and I know United is worried creditors will view that as a way to get some of their money back." 

GRAPHIC: Graph: "United Airlines' Rise and Fall"In the first few years after its employees acquired a majority stake in July 1994, UAL achieved financial success. But the airline has been on a long downward slide because it has failed to control costs. Graph tracks UAL Corporation stock price since 1994. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (74%); BUSINESS PLANS (68%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (54%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (74%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002 



152 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
A Lesser Rubens, At a Discount
 In this rocky economy, auction houses are frequently handling artworks that dealers have been trying to sell for years, but now at deeply discounted prices. One of them is "The Holy Family With the Infant St. John the Baptist," a mature work by Rubens, painted around 1630, to be auctioned on Jan. 23 at Sotheby's in New York. 
 The consigner is Agnew's, the London gallery. It bought the painting in 1989 from the Matarazzo family, Brazilian collectors who have been big sellers at Sotheby's for years.
In 1992 Agnew's showed the painting at its Bond Street gallery. It was shown again at the Gagosian Gallery in New York in 1995. Then, in 1997, Agnew's tried to sell the Rubens at the European Fine Art Fair in Maastricht, the Netherlands. Over the years the asking price has dropped to $4 million to $6 million (Sotheby's estimate) from $25 million in 1989.
"It's grand, it's evocative and it's engaging," said Christopher Apostle, director of old master paintings at Sotheby's in New York. "It's a well-known picture, and this is the right level for the painting at auction. It will get people to think about it again."
Julian Agnew, director of Agnew's, confirmed that it was the consigner but said he could not identify the sellers, who were "attracted," he added, "by the price 'The Massacre of the Innocents' fetched" at Sotheby's in July. That Rubens, from 1609-11, brought $76.7 million, an auction record for an old master painting. No one expects "The Holy Family," a later and, experts say, far lesser work, to sell for anywhere near that.
Obviously concerned about who actually owns the painting, Sotheby's asked Mr. Agnew to write a letter addressing the issue. So on Oct. 28, he wrote to George Wachter, director of old master paintings for Sotheby's worldwide, saying: "As far as the ownership is concerned, obviously I am fully aware of the identity of the owners, though I cannot reveal it. Naturally, we are able to guarantee good title."

More Sotheby's Layoffs
At a full-staff meeting at Sotheby's on Tuesday, William F. Ruprecht, the company's chief executive, told employees that further staff cuts in the United States were inevitable.
While he declined to say just how many people would lose their jobs, he said in a telephone interview: "We're running on a conservative financial footing. We are expecting to be profitable next year."
The auction house has laid off more than 375 employees in the last two years, shrinking its staff to 1,700 from 2,100.

Accolades for Avedon
Since "Richard Avedon: Portraits" opened at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in September, more than 300,000 visitors have gone to see his images of well-known personalities like Marilyn Monroe, the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, Truman Capote and Donald H. Rumsfeld, making it the most attended photography show in the Met's history. Mr. Avedon's recent show has beaten his previous exhibition record, also at the Met, which was 144,926 in 1987.
"Part of it is America's identity with celebrity," said Harold Holzer, the museum's vice president for communications and marketing. "And part is people's response to Avedon the artist."

A Museum Blooms

By next fall, the Museum of Jewish Heritage: A Living Memorial to the Holocaust in Battery Park City will have a permanent garden created by the British sculptor Andy Goldsworthy. The project, organized by the Public Art Fund, a nonprofit organization that presents art around the city, is part of the institution's $60 million, 82,000-square-foot east wing expansion. It is Mr. Goldsworthy's first public commission in New York City and his first garden design.
"We wanted a quiet, contemplative space," said Ivy Barsky, deputy director of the museum. "We have one of the greatest sites in the city," she added, referring to the views of New York Harbor. "And we wanted to take advantage of that, to have a quiet place where people could go and reflect on what they've seen."
Susan K. Freedman, president of the Public Art Fund, said Mr. Goldsworthy was chosen from about 60 artists by a committee made up primarily of museum trustees. "It's a forward-thinking piece," she said. "It's one you'll want to come back to. Not only will it change seasonally, but it will grow."
The garden will be composed of a series of hand-selected boulders, each hollowed out to hold a single sapling that will grow through a small hole at the stone's top. As the trees mature and grow, they will become fused with their stone bases. The garden will also include stone benches and specially designed lighting.

Schools Explore Merger
San Francisco's two leading fine-art schools -- the California College of Arts and Crafts and the San Francisco Art Institute -- are discussing a merger, which would form one of the biggest independent art colleges in the country.
"The idea would be to create an institution of international capacity, taking the best of both schools," said Charles M. Collins, chairman of the San Francisco Art Institute. "Running an art school is expensive. Looking into the future, this could provide more money for programs, facility development and faculty."
Late last month, the boards of both institutions voted to explore the possibility of a merger, but they have yet to decide major issues like the name of the new school, how the campuses would be used and the institution's overall management.
The California College of Arts and Crafts, founded in 1907, offers degrees in the fine arts as well as in architecture and design. The Art Institute, founded in 1871, focuses on fine art.
"With the lines between fine arts and applied arts becoming less, we are looking at the idea of creating a new model for arts education," Mr. Collins said, adding that subjects like film, video and computer arts would also become important parts of the curriculum.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For sale: Rubens's "Holy Family With the Infant St. John the Baptist." (Sotheby's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BONDS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%) ART; AUCTIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PHOTOGRAPHY; GARDENS AND GARDENING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%) SOTHEBY'S; METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE (NYC); CALIFORNIA COLLEGE OF ARTS AND CRAFTS; SAN FRANCISCO ART INSTITUTE 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (55%) RUBENS, PETER PAUL (1577-1640); RUPRECHT, WILLIAM; AVEDON, RICHARD; GOLDSWORTHY, ANDY; VOGEL, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



153 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
An Era Ends for the Guggenheim

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim Museum's director, put the best spin he could on Wednesday's announcement of a $12 million gift to the institution from Peter B. Lewis, its chairman. Mr. Lewis, he said, satisfied with the plans for the museum in 2003, "was moved to give" the money. "This is a good news story," Mr. Krens added.
 But Mr. Lewis was frank. The Guggenheim had been overly ambitious, overly expansive. Mr. Krens's original spending proposal had been unacceptable. More slashing was needed. The final budget would be half what the museum spent several years ago. Having given the Guggenheim $62 million since he joined the board in 1993, Mr. Lewis had exhausted his patience and generosity. "There was a mess," he said about how finances had been managed at the museum, which "had first used yesterday's reserves and then used tomorrow's optimism." The blame was partly his, he admitted. Now either change would come or someone would go. 
 You could almost hear the door shut on an era. The age of the go-go Guggenheim was over. Echoes of Wall Street: the museum had marketed itself as a new kind of cultural institution in the 1990's, which it was. A sleepy modern art museum with a crumbling landmark building before Mr. Krens arrived, it became an international brand name and lightning rod under his management. Cash flowed in from projects like the Bilbao museum, then was quickly spent to cover expanded costs and grander plans. The museum was leveraging its future.
And inevitably, having mimicked the dot.com businesses of the era, with the hype about global networking, cutting-edge growth and a new economy, Mr. Krens's dream, like the bubble of the dot.coms, burst. Global culture sounded inevitable a few years ago -- all those plane-hopping travelers and multinational collaborations. But Sept. 11 put an end to that. The world became more divided, people less willing to travel, the American public poorer, more attuned to protecting itself and what it has.
Mr. Krens was right in one sense. Arts institutions are not really different from other businesses, at least not when they act like them. They are just as vulnerable.
So the Guggenheim is retrenching. Mr. Lewis says the budget is balanced for the time being. "The financial situation at the museum is solid," he said. Meanwhile, staff cuts have been appalling and betray not just misplaced optimism but reckless growth. More than half the staff is gone, down from 391 to 181. We might ask, at what cost to the public programs? What is left when the go-go is gone?
The exhibition schedule, while not defunct, seems as if it is on life support. The SoHo branch, which brought some good shows to town and answered detractors who said Mr. Krens was interested only in expanding elsewhere, closed last December. Before Sept. 11, when the Guggenheim was already facing serious money troubles, Mr. Krens had hoped the new branch in Las Vegas would pump cash into the institution. But it opened after Sept. 11 just as high-end tourism evaporated.
Forget, now and maybe forever, new branches in Salzburg or Brazil or Tokyo or China or Korea; forget the proposed downtown Guggenheim by Frank Gehry. "If Frank Gehry designs a public-service building that gets built in downtown New York, I am willing to contribute the last 25 percent," Mr. Lewis said. "But there are conditions. First, that no energy is committed to do anything about this now."
Notice the phrase "public-service building" instead of museum. Mr. Krens, after 9/11, was already talking about another kind of downtown project, a place smaller and less expensive, perhaps, something the Guggenheim could share with other cultural organizations, which, he added, might or might not involve Mr. Gehry. Now Mr. Krens will have to back off even from that modified position if he wants to keep Mr. Lewis happy, which he had better do, while Mr. Lewis's commitment to Mr. Gehry sounds more solid than his commitment to a new Guggenheim or even to Mr. Krens.
Nothing suggests more strongly that a cultural moment has ended than the indefinite postponement of that downtown project. There will be widespread gloating. Mr. Krens has made enemies, including other museum directors who distrust his corporate model for a nonprofit institution; who resent the way he appeals to nontraditional donors and corporations; who dislike his partnerships with financially pressed museums like the Hermitage in St. Petersburg and the Kunsthistorisches in Vienna, alliances that disrupted the old system of international collaboration, which had of course benefited the museums run by the disgruntled directors.
Why, they asked, was a modern art museum showing old master paintings and African art in the first place?
And there will be finger-wagging among critics who attacked Mr. Krens's megashows, who questioned his coziness with sponsors and his taste in art, who found him arrogant, aloof. No success goes unpunished in the New York art world. His predicament is a typical New York story in that respect.
People forget he took over a small museum that was already in financial distress. He found creative ways to install art in it. The collection grew. He expanded and rejuvenated the Guggenheim in Venice, which was sleepy if not moribund, and he brought about Bilbao, an architectural marvel, although already perhaps becoming dated. Most interestingly, he raised the question whether a museum must be a particular building or can it be an idea, an institution of variable size and locale. 
And there have also been many good exhibitions, not just in New York but at branches in Berlin and elsewhere, big and small ones, along with the terrible shows, which his detractors fixate on, like the Giorgio Armani show. That was inexcusable, a short-sighted exchange of cash for dignity, the high price of irresponsible management and a leverage mentality, although not an event so different from what many other museums do to raise money and attract crowds without inciting the same hostility.
Mr. Krens's success always depended on the perception of success, keeping more and more balls in the air. It is what attracted speculators. Drop a ball, however, and the illusion fades. What now becomes of a museum whose identity is inextricably linked with expansion, mobility, global interchange and a new economy?
Mr. Krens complains that his shows and acquisitions are received less warmly, more skeptically, because critics dislike him and his plans for the museums. Would they have treated the motorcycle exhibition in 1998 or the Ellsworth Kelly retrospective in 1996 differently, he has asked, had the shows been at the Met or the Modern? But he and his plans have dominated and shaped everything that has happened at the Guggenheim. Mr. Lewis's threatened shake-up if the finances didn't improve raises an extraordinary thought: what would the Guggenheim be without Mr. Krens? His shrinking staff remains in his shadow. His curators have not had the opportunity to define the institution.
So this is actually an opportunity for the museum. Bigger is not better; better is better. That's a lesson of the present economy. The obsession of museums elsewhere with expansion and brand-name architecture, fostered by Mr. Krens's example, is an insidious legacy of the 90's.
Harder than building a new building or keeping a museum financially afloat is figuring out what art matters and why, then making the best aesthetic case for art in public. Now art has a chance to be front and center at the Guggenheim. Call it traditional values. It is how all museums and museum directors are judged. Mr. Krens and his institution will be no exception.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Krens, director of the Guggenheim, with a picture of the Bilbao branch. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (73%) ART; PHILANTHROPY; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) 

PERSON: KRENS, THOMAS; LEWIS, PETER B; KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



154 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
I'm 40! Come Risk Your Life With Me

BYLINE:  By JANE MARGOLIES 

 BODY:
TUCKER McNEIL has his limits. The personal assistant to Christie Whitman, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Mr. McNeil has done his share of camping, hiking, and river rafting. But the 25-year-old New Jersey native had always drawn the line at horseback riding. "I'm scared of horses," he said recently.
 Nonetheless, for three nerve-racking days in July, Mr. McNeil found himself on one -- scrambling along a narrow, gravely path that skirted the side of a cliff, his hands nearly raw from clinging desperately to the reins. Why? Because his mother, Wendy McNeil, had invited family and friends to Glacier National Park in Montana for her 50th birthday, and Mr. McNeil fell in with the plans, even though they involved a horse-packing trip on a treacherous trail. 
 "It was a straight drop, probably 1,500 to 2,000 feet to the river, which was not an inconsequential height as far as I was concerned," he said. "The horse would step, and rocks would tumble down. I spent a lot of time going 'Whoa, whoa.' " 
Be ready to pack your bags, folks. The next card you receive may well be a birthday invitation with a destination a little more exotic than the host's home. These days, more and more people seem to be marking milestone birthdays, like turning 40 or 50, by traveling somewhere -- a resort, a ranch or a national park. And they're taking their guests with them.
Susan Butcher, an architect in Santa Fe, N.M., commandeered the Rancho Manzana, a bed-and-breakfast in a restored 18th-century adobe house in Chimayo, N.M., and asked 20 friends from as far away as New York and California to help her celebrate her 40th birthday. "Turning 40 seemed like a momentous occasion," she said. The main event was a sit-down dinner Saturday night, followed by brandy, birthday cake and dancing into the night. Ms. Butcher swirled in a Trina Turk-designed ensemble: silk bell-bottoms and a chiffon blouse with rhinestone-studded cuffs ("very 'Charlie's Angels,' " she said).
Such elaborate dos don't just happen by themselves, of course. For one thing, they require planning far in advance. To reserve the Point, the former Rockefeller camp in the Adirondacks, for you and your guests (a maximum of 22) would cost $22,000 a night. But the resort's hefty price tag hasn't kept the place from being partly booked through 2005. "So far this year we've done four or five parties for 40-year-olds and two for 50-year-olds," said Tim Thuell, general manager of the Point.
While some people strive for over-the-top luxury, others look for an unusual adventure. In October, Susan Perkins, a retired social worker who lives in Longwood, Fla., headed to Montego Bay in Jamaica for three days to celebrate her friend Ann Palmer's 50th birthday. Why Jamaica? Another friend had discovered that a woman named Annie Palmer, who was murdered in 1831, was said to haunt a large 1780 house called Rose Hall on an old Jamaican plantation. (She was called the White Witch and is said to have practiced voodoo, killed three husbands and tortured countless slaves.)
Amused by the connection with their birthday pal -- who is "just the nicest person," Ms. Perkins hastened to add -- the women enlisted the help of the Winter Park, Fla., travel agency Departures to book flights, reserve rooms at the Wyndham Rose Hall Golf & Beach Resort and arrange a private candlelight tour of Rose Hall that culminated with a visit to the dungeon where Annie Palmer was said to have taken her unlucky victims.
Sometimes the choice of a party locale isn't quite so pre-ordained. Six women, friends since they met as freshman at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., and about to turn 40, cooked up the idea of a birthday trip together but had no specific destination in mind. The women -- one lives in Texas, the rest are split between New Jersey and Massachusetts -- couldn't resolve matters by phone or e-mail, so five of them convened for a planning weekend, to which each was supposed to bring three suggestions.
The winner was Echo Valley Ranch in Clinton, British Columbia, where the friends bunked up just like in college. They rode horses, had mud wraps and manicures, and "giggled the whole time," according to the Texan, Lori Grubs, a human resources consultant, who said that the six-day trip cost a little over $1,000 a person. "There was nothing around this place," she said of the ranch. "We all just walked away from the world for a while."
To pull off the logistics of a long-distance birthday party, many people turn to a travel agent or an outfitter for help. Off the Beaten Path, the Montana-based travel company that organized Wendy McNeil's Glacier National Park trip, is used to putting together complicated itineraries. The 40th-birthday jaunt the firm helped arrange for one California client, for instance, involved getting guests from as far away as Brazil to Princess Royal Island in British Columbia, which involves flying into Vancouver, taking another plane to Prince Rupert, and from there a float plane to the island.
"People want something memorable," said Pam Bryan, a founder of Off the Beaten Path.
Davon Russell, director of youth services at the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation in the Bronx, gamely went along with the matching shirts and baseball caps and long, drawn-out restaurant meals that were part of a college friend's tightly orchestrated trip to France to celebrate her 35th birthday. And why not: the friend paid all her guests' expenses. "We drove to these places, and then sat there for hours while they brought out one course after another," Mr. Russell recalled. "Every time you turned around someone was coming with another nice thing you couldn't say no to."
Of course, any arrangement is going to sound more appealing if the host is footing the bill. But typically the guests are expected to pitch in. When Jamie Bernstein Thomas was asked to narrate a concert of songs by her father, Leonard Bernstein, at the Moab Music Festival the night before her 50th birthday, she decided to make a weekend of it. ("I'll meditate on being half a century old," she said shortly before the trip.) Friends from Charlottesville, Va.; New York; and Los Angeles joined her, and they all shared the cost of a condo, where they barbecued and turned up the volume on a boom box. "It's quite reasonable when you share expenses," she said.
Costs aside, these group vacations require a time commitment from the guests that goes way beyond a dinner party or get-together at a local restaurant. Time was what David Kuhn, a Manhattan magazine editor, wanted from his busy friends five years ago for his 37th birthday. Twelve hours, to be exact.
That's how long his partner, Kevin Thompson, a film production designer, had chartered a rock 'n' roll bus for a whirlwind trip to Atlantic City -- an idea inspired by Mr. Kuhn's enthusiasm for blackjack. "I was working like a demon at the time," said Mr. Kuhn, who was then an editor at The New Yorker. "This was like pressing an eject button."
The bus picked the gang up in front of Mr. Kuhn's Sheridan Square building at 4 p.m. "Someone brought hors d'oeuvres, someone brought decorations, someone brought booze," Mr. Kuhn said. "It was a cocktail party on wheels." After two hours in traffic, the bus pulled up in front of the Taj Mahal, where the group gambled, ate dinner and watched the action on the boardwalk. Eventually they piled back into the bus, and by 4 a.m., exhausted, they were back in Manhattan.
"It was fun, going somewhere we'd never been, being removed from the regular context of my life," Mr. Kuhn said.
And what did he do when he finally turned 40? "Stayed home."

GRAPHIC: Photo: BIRTHDAY TRIP -- Wendy McNeil, center, spent her 50th birthday with family and friends in Glacier National Park. (Tom McNeil) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); CAMPING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); HIKING (78%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (77%); RESORTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (69%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BIRTHDAYS; HORSES 

PERSON: MARGOLIES, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (73%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



155 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Central Bank Cuts Rates by Half a Point 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Yielding to evidence of an economic malaise in Europe from Rome to Berlin, the European Central Bank voted today to cut interest rates by half a percentage point.
 The move, which had been foreshadowed by bank officials in recent weeks, won praise from politicians and economists, who said it would provide a sorely needed spur to the Continent's sputtering growth. 
 If anything, the move was overdue in the eyes of some critics, who said the bank should have acted a month ago, when the Federal Reserve cut rates in the United States. The European Central Bank had not reduced its benchmark rate, which now stands at 2.75 percent, since November 2001. 
"Better late than never," said Martin W. Hufner, chief economist at Hypovereinsbank in Munich. "It was absolutely an essential step, and it will stabilize confidence in the financial markets."
Stock markets in Europe, however, reacted tepidly to the move; so did currency traders, who bid the euro down slightly against the dollar. That was partly because the decision was widely expected and partly because it came with a raft of doleful economic news.
Unemployment in Germany rose again in November by an unexpectedly large number, leaving more than four million people out of work. The European Commission forecast that the economy of the 12-member monetary union might actually contract in the first quarter of 2003.
"We are in a very critical condition," said Klaus F. Zimmerman, the president of DIW, an economic research institute in Berlin. "In Germany, we are about to go into stagnation. So we need some signals."
Mr. Zimmerman said lower interest rates take up to a year to be felt in the broader economy. By then, the pessimists warn, Germany may have lapsed into a recession, while France and Italy may have barely skirted one.
The central bank, which has historically worried more about taming inflation than stimulating growth, acknowledged that runaway prices posed a lesser danger these days than the bleak economic mood.
"Overall sentiment in the economy remains lackluster, with business confidence improving somewhat but consumer confidence falling further," the bank's president, Wim Duisenberg, said at a news conference.
He said growth in Europe would probably be subdued for several more months because of fears about a war against Iraq and its possible effect on oil prices, as well as concerns about the still fragile American economy. 
"The subdued economic activity should limit potential upward risks to price stability," Mr. Duisenberg said.
Such dry language does not capture what has been a lively, and increasingly fractious, debate within the European Central Bank about when to ease monetary policy. When the governing council left rates stable last month, Mr. Duisenberg allowed that there had been dissent.
At today's meeting, he said, there was more spirited discussion, though this time it was over the size of the cut: 0.5 percent or 0.25 percent. Analysts had initially expected a smaller cut, but then the signals changed.
Mr. Duisenberg and other officials had fanned out across Europe in recent days to drop hints that a cut was imminent. Mr. Duisenberg suggested that a need to prepare the market was one reason the bank did not act on rates last month.
"If we had moved a month ago, you would have been surprised," he said. "Now, I daresay you are not surprised."
European political leaders, who for months have been prodding the bank to act, applauded the decision. The German finance minister, Hans Eichel, said it would have a "very good" psychological effect. "I also think it's appropriate, given the very low inflation rate in Germany," he said to reporters in Berlin.
The quandary for the European bank is that it must set a uniform policy for 12 countries with far from uniform economies. Germany, with neither inflation nor economic growth at the moment, has very different needs than, say, Ireland, which still has a robust economy and the rising prices that go with it.
"Remember that a number of the governors come from these smaller countries," Mr. Hufner said. "That's what makes it so difficult. That's the difference between the E.C.B. and the Fed."
In Britain, where the economy is growing faster than in Continental Europe, the Bank of England said today that it would leave its benchmark rate unchanged at 4 percent. The disparity between rates in Britain and in the 12 euro nations is now the widest it has been in nine years.
Central banks in Denmark and Sweden, the other two European Union members who have not adopted the euro currency, announced rate cuts today in the wake of the European bank's action.
Mr. Duisenberg reminded Europe's political leaders that they, too, must act to help revive their economies, which tend to be hobbled by high labor costs and expensive social welfare programs and subsidies.
He seemed at pains to damp expectations of any further rate cuts, noting that the bank's "interest rates have reached a very low level by historic standards." Though the Federal Reserve has cut its lending rate 12 times since the start of last year, the European bank has cut its rate only 4 times.
"It was an ambiguous statement," Cesar Molinas, the chief European debt strategist at Merrill Lynch in London, said of Mr. Duisenberg's remarks. "What I get from it is that we shouldn't expect more easing in January or February."
Other analysts predicted that, barring a major shock to the world economy, there would be little chance of another rate cut during Mr. Duisenberg's tenure, which is scheduled to end in July.
Mr. Duisenberg steered clear of new questions about his presumptive successor, Jean-Claude Trichet, the governor of the French central bank. Paris prosecutors are investigating Mr. Trichet's role in the bankruptcy of Credit Lyonnais a decade ago, and news reports in France have said that the completion of the investigation may be delayed. 
Asked by a French reporter whether his departure might be affected by Mr. Trichet's legal problems, Mr. Duisenberg said that he did not need a translation, and politely ducked the question, in English.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rate Cut in Europe"The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points today. The last rate cut was in November 2001. Graph shows the European Central Bank's Benchmark interest rate, from 1999-2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); UNICREDIT BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); ITALY (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



156 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Russians Become Litigious: Survivors of Theater Siege Sue 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Nikolai A. Lyubimov, 71, worked as a guard at the theater held for 57 hours by Chechen guerrillas here in October. After the siege ended, he said he spent 24 days in the hospital recovering from the effects of the debilitating gas with which Russian commandos subdued the guerrillas and, fatally, many of the hostages.
 Now, suffering from what he says is lingering numbness and heart ailments and facing steep monthly bills for prescription medicine, Mr. Lyubimov has taken a step that would have been unthinkable not long ago but has become increasingly common in Russia today. 
 He is suing the government.
Mr. Lyubimov and seven others -- four other hostages who survived and the relatives of three who died -- have filed lawsuits seeking compensation for the physical and psychological damage that they say resulted from their terrifying captivity and the deadly raid that ended it. 
Such a thing in the United States would be of little surprise: the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey faces more than 1,000 lawsuits stemming from the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center last year. But this case has produced a flurry of attention here, not least because of the amount of money involved.
The sums the plaintiffs are seeking from the Moscow city government are staggeringly high, the equivalent of nearly $1 million each for seven of them and $500,000 for the eighth. In Russia, the average income ranges from $970 a year outside Moscow to $4,550 in the capital. Mr. Lyubimov, a pensioner who worked part time at the theater, earned less than $100 a month there.
A spokesman for Moscow's mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov, said paying such compensation would be "equal to the recognition of the guilt for the terrorist act," telling Pravda that "this is something with which the Moscow government cannot agree."
But the plaintiffs won a first victory on Tuesday when a judge agreed to consider their claims, scheduling another hearing on Dec. 24 and naming the city's finance department as the principal defendant.
Russia today is far from a litigious society, but the hostages' lawsuits are a step in the halting evolution of democracy, one that perhaps signals that the rights of the state do not automatically supersede those of the citizen. 
After decades of resigned acknowledgment that the Soviet authorities had the last word, Russians are increasingly discovering that they can have their day in court.
"In general we live in a free country, if you look at the written norms," said Genri M. Reznik, one of Russia's most prominent defense lawyers, referring to the country's Constitution and other legal protections that are not always followed in practice. "We're not only equal, but as an old Soviet song went, 'We're ahead of the whole planet.' "
"Maybe the tradition has not yet taken root entirely," he added, "but people are successfully overcoming the past."
President Vladimir V. Putin has strongly defended his government's actions as a justified response to terrorists who threatened to blow up the theater and kill everyone inside, and only a few in Russia have openly challenged that view.
The plaintiffs in the lawsuits are not trying to establish negligence for the deadly siege of the theater, which is a matter of debate because at least 129 of the hostages died, almost all of them from the gas used during the rescue. Some commentators have suggested that the police were either negligent or corrupt in failing to notice and stop a group of heavily armed Chechens from entering the theater in the first place.
But the victims are simply seeking compensation for what they say are the long-term effects that resulted from the siege -- something that is known here as "moral suffering."
Their lawyer, Igor L. Trunov, has argued that the claims are justified under a law enacted by Parliament and amended in 2000 after the bombings of apartment buildings in Moscow that were ascribed to Chechen terrorists. The law requires regional governments to compensate victims of terrorist attacks that occur in their jurisdiction.
Mr. Trunov said he would soon enlist more plaintiffs, including more relatives of the dead, who just completed the traditional 40-day period of mourning on Wednesday.
In effect, he has begun the Russian equivalent of a class action that could end up testing the judiciary's role in interpreting the intent of the legislature's actions. The terrorism law, which has not been tested in court before, does not detail what compensation should be given.
Mr. Trunov took on the case, he said, to establish a precedent for those who suffer from terrorism in the future, as well as the legal mechanism for compensating them. He would not discuss his fee, though Mr. Lyubimov's daughter said he had pledged not to charge anything.
"There are no grounds to reject this claim," he said outside a worn brick courthouse in Moscow after Tuesday's hearing, surrounded by a battery of television cameras. "We act on the basis of the letter and spirit of the law, and the court confirms this."
In post-Soviet Russia, civil suits seeking compensation for all manner of suffering, much of it economic, have proliferated, driven by an increasingly aggressive bar. In many cases the plaintiffs are winning judgments, though rarely more than a few thousand dollars.
A judge in Krasnodar won a $1 million verdict this year after suing the newspaper Novaya Gazeta for defamation, a precedent Mr. Trunov cited in setting the victims' claims. That judgment was later withdrawn, as was a second libel suit, in an out-of-court settlement amid protests that the award would close the newspaper. 
After the theater siege, the Moscow city government agreed to pay roughly $1,500 to each of the surviving hostages and twice that to the relatives of those who died, while charitable groups have also raised money to help cover medical and other costs.
The State Ball-Bearing Factory, which owns the theater, also gave nearly $800 more to theater workers like Mr. Lyubimov. On the night the siege began, during the popular musical "Nord Ost," he heard breaking glass and went to chase off what he thought would be vandals. Instead, he said, he was confronted by masked gunmen.
Mr. Lyubimov said he deeply appreciated the factory's contribution, as well as the doctors in government hospitals who kept him alive. At the same time, he said, he faces lasting disabilities, including difficulties in feeding himself because of numbness in his face. He is uncertain whether he will work again.
As a pensioner, he receives a little more than $60 a month. The medicines that his doctors have prescribed, but which the city's health and social committees have refused to pay for, cost more than half of that. He said he should also be compensated for the loss of personal belongings in the theater, including a gold ring and his only suit, bought in Soviet times.
"First of all," he said, "who says this is too much to ask for?"
Asked if his willingness to challenge the authorities in court was a sign of changing times in Russia, he paused, nodded and smiled faintly.
"In the past," he said, "it would not even have come into my head." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A ceremony at a Russian Orthodox church in Moscow marked 40 days since the deaths of those killed when Russian forces stormed a theater.; Igor L. Trunov, right, is the plaintiffs' lawyer in a suit over the storming of a Moscow theater. Anna Lyubimov, left, is the daughter of a survivor. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ANALGESICS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); CITIES (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; TERRORISM; HOSTAGES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; POISON GASES; FENTANYL (DRUG) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; LUZHKOV, YURI M (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



157 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1355 words

PERSON: U Ne Win 

HEADLINE: Ne Win, Ex-Burmese Military Strongman, Dies at 81 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
U Ne Win, the longtime Burmese strongman who seized control of his country in a military coup in 1962 and set up an authoritarian government that transformed his homeland, once one of the most prosperous parts of the British Empire, into one of the world's poorest nations, died yesterday. He was 81. 
 Mr. Ne Win died at in his lakeside villa near the capital, Yangon, under house arrest and with only his eldest daughter, Sandar Win, by his side, The Associated Press reported, quoting family members. 
 His two other children are abroad, his wife lives separately, and his three grandsons and son-in-law -- Ms. Sandar Win's husband -- are in jail, sentenced to death for plotting a coup against the military junta. Mr. Ne Win was placed under house arrest in March, when the men were jailed. 
Mr. Ne Win (pronounced nay win) was an army general when he and the military men around him overthrew an elected government in 1962. He soon managed to smother democracy in Burma, which was renamed Myanmar in 1989. He jailed hundreds of political leaders without trials, and he swiftly replaced Parliament with a military dictatorship. 
His rule continued for more than a quarter of a century, until a nationwide spasm of mass democracy demonstrations in 1988 led to its collapse. Later that year came the formation of a new and even more repressive military junta, the State Law and Order Restoration Council, and there were recurrent reports that Mr. Ne Win still exercised power behind the scenes.
D. R. Sar Desai, of the University of California at Los Angeles, wrote in a 1997 book, "Southeast Asia: Past and Present," that despite the official changes after 1988, "authority remained, at least for the next two years, in the hands of General Ne Win." 
Mr. Ne Win ruled under various titles, including president from 1974 to 1981.
He and his advisers framed a drastic program, "the Burmese Way to Socialism," which nationalized trade and industry and expelled Chinese and Indian entrepreneurs. Rice exports, a key sector of the once-prosperous economy, lagged. Black marketeers flourished. By 1968, there was widespread corruption. Although some economic measures were more successful in later years, resentment of government economic policies help lead to the demonstrations of 1988. 
In foreign affairs, the Ne Win government pursued isolationist policies, even though it paid a price in lost foreign investment. Intensely xenophobic and anticolonialist policies also resulted in lost cultural contact with other countries.
By late 1974, the economy was in such a perilous state that the Ministry of Planning and Finance, despite the earlier isolationism, was seeking international economic aid. This effort was so avid that the radio of the outlawed Burma Communist Party, broadcasting from China, called it "the ministry of begging."
Mr. Ne Win's work methods were sometimes eccentric. He accepted policy advice from numerologists and astrologers. Like many of his fellow citizens, he thought that nine and multiples of nine were lucky numbers, and it is said that as a result, his country's currency came to be printed in denominations of 45 and 90. He was also known for enjoying his leisure, and he often made vacation trips to Europe.
But he remained intent on dominating his compatriots. As Tillman Durdin, a New York Times correspondent and expert on Asia, wrote in a 1966 book, "Southeast Asia," Mr. Ne Win was "a husky, hot-tempered, quick-witted martinet driven as much by a strong taste for discipline as by personal ambition." Mr. Durdin said he "regards the type of socialism he practices as a means mostly of organizing and controlling Burmese society, rather than developing it to meet the challenge of a radically changing world."
Mr. Ne Win's coup in 1962 ousted U Nu, the magnetic and popular prime minister who led the Burmese through 12 of the first 15 years after their country became independent in 1948. For years, while Mr. Ne Win and his military associates maintained their grip, Mr. Nu urged the re-establishment of multiparty democracy. He died in 1995.
And yet a lingering craving for democracy played a major role in ending Mr. Ne Win's rule, after the student demonstrations in 1988 touched off a mostly peaceful democracy uprising that plunged the country into chaos.
Eventually the army intervened and killed hundreds of people while crushing the uprising. The country came to be ruled by a new military junta, which is now headed by Gen. Than Shwe. Today, four decades after the coup, the military still pervades almost every part of Burmese society, all levels of government and every sector of the economy. 
Mr. Ne Win formally retired in 1988. 
The years after the 1988 upheavals were eventful. In 1989, the new junta put the leading pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, under house arrest, but her party won 80 percent of the contested seats in a parliamentary election in 1991. The military government annulled that balloting, but she won the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts to return democracy to her homeland. 
Power, either acknowledged or behind the scenes, was not Mr. Ne Win's by birthright. He was born on May 24, 1911, in the Prome District north of the capital, the son of a relatively low-ranking government official. He was named Shu Maung, meaning "the apple of one's eye." He went to schools in the district and studied two years at Rangoon University, leaving in 1931 without a degree.
He went on to hold a postal job in Rangoon, now Yangon, while working in a militant nationalist organization and became active in the independence movement. In 1941, he was one of 30 of its members who traveled to an island off China for secret military training by the Japanese. 
He took a new name, Ne Win, meaning "brilliant as the sun," and became an officer in the new Burma Independence Army, whose chief of staff was Gen. Aung San, who came to be idolized by the Burmese. Aung San, the father of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, was assassinated in 1947. 
When World War II spread to Asia late in 1941, Mr. Ne Win returned to Burma. As Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi wrote decades later of her father's troops, "the march of the B.I.A. into Burma alongside the Japanese troops was an occasion of great pride and joy to the Burmese."
By late March 1942, the British-Indian Army in Burma was retreating toward India. The Japanese occupied the country, and as Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi put it, the Burmese, "who had believed they were about to gain freedom from the British, were shattered to find themselves ground under the heels of their fellow Asian instead."
In 1942 and 1943, during the Japanese occupation, what had been the Burma Independence Army went through two reorganizations. The first made Aung San its commander in chief. The second gave it the name Burma National Army and made Colonel Ne Win the army's commander in the important delta region of southern Burma.
In 1945, while British forces were winning Burma back from the Japanese, they were aided by troops led by Aung San, who had turned against the Japanese. In May 1945, after the Japanese lost Rangoon, it was Aung San's trusted brother officer, Colonel Ne Win, who was chosen to make a radio address to their compatriots. He declared, "The Burmese Army is not only the hope of the country, but its very life and soul."
When the war was over, the British authorities set up a new Burma Army. Ne Win soon became a lieutenant colonel and co-commander of a battalion, and he was quickly promoted to higher posts. Aung San became the equivalent of prime minister, and when he was assassinated in July 1947, he was replaced by U Nu. 
Early the next year, General Ne Win became chief of the general staff and supreme commander of the armed forces. He remained commander until after his coup in 1962.
Mr. Nu's government faced grave political factionalism and secessionist movements among minority ethnic groups, and Mr. Nu handed over power temporarily to General Ne Win. Under him, the army made progress in bringing back law and order, and in 1960 Mr. Nu was returned to power by a national election -- only to be ousted two years later by the coup. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the former Burmese military strongman Ne Win on Friday misstated his age. He was 91, not 81.

GRAPHIC: Photo: U Ne Win with President Lyndon B. Johnson in Washington in 1966. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COUPS (91%); HOUSE ARREST (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); ARRESTS (76%); FAMILY (75%); SENTENCING (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ARMIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); POLITICS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (60%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES) 

NE WIN; PACE, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MYANMAR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%) BURMA; MYANMAR

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



158 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Digital Robber Barons? 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Bad metaphors make bad policy. Everyone talks about the "information highway." But in economic terms the telecommunications network resembles not a highway but the railroad industry of the robber-baron era -- that is, before it faced effective competition from trucking. And railroads eventually faced tough regulation, for good reason: they had a lot of market power, and often abused it.
 Yet the people making choices today about the future of the Internet -- above all Michael Powell, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission -- seem unaware of this history. They are full of enthusiasm for the wonders of deregulation, dismissive of concerns about market power. And meanwhile tomorrow's robber barons are fortifying their castles. 
 Until recently, the Internet seemed the very embodiment of the free-market ideal -- a place where thousands of service providers competed, where anyone could visit any site. And the tech sector was a fertile breeding ground for libertarian ideology, with many techies asserting that they needed neither help nor regulation from Washington. 
But the wide-open, competitive world of the dial-up Internet depended on the very government regulation so many Internet enthusiasts decried. Local phone service is a natural monopoly, and in an unregulated world local phone monopolies would probably insist that you use their dial-up service. The reason you have a choice is that they are required to act as common carriers, allowing independent service providers to use their lines.
A few years ago everyone expected the same story to unfold in broadband. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 was supposed to create a highly competitive broadband industry. But it was a botched job; the promised competition never materialized. 
For example, I personally have no choice at all: if I want broadband, the Internet service provided by my local cable company is it. I'm like a 19th-century farmer who had to ship his grain on the Union Pacific, or not at all. If I lived closer to a telephone exchange, or had a clear view of the Southern sky, I might have some alternatives. But there are only a few places in the U.S. where there is effective broadband competition. 
And that's probably the way it will stay. The political will to fix the 1996 act, to create in broadband the kind of freewheeling environment that many Internet users still take for granted, has evaporated. 
Last March the F.C.C. used linguistic trickery -- defining cable Internet access as an "information service" rather than as telecommunications -- to exempt cable companies from the requirement to act as common carriers. The commission will probably make a similar ruling on DSL service, which runs over lines owned by your local phone company. The result will be a system in which most families and businesses will have no more choice about how to reach cyberspace than a typical 19th-century farmer had about which railroad would carry his grain. 
There were and are alternatives. We could have restored competition by breaking up the broadband industry, restricting local phone and cable companies to the business of selling space on their lines to independent Internet service providers. Or we could have accepted limited competition, and regulated Internet providers the way we used to regulate AT&T. But right now we seem to be heading for a system without either effective competition or regulation. 
Worse yet, the F.C.C. has been steadily lifting restrictions on cross-ownership of media and communications companies. The day when a single conglomerate could own your local newspaper, several of your local TV channels, your cable company and your phone company -- and offer your only route to the Internet -- may not be far off.
The result of all this will probably be exorbitant access charges, but that's the least of it. Broadband providers that face neither effective competition nor regulation may well make it difficult for their customers to get access to sites outside their proprietary domain -- ending the Internet as we know it. And there's a political dimension too. What happens when a few media conglomerates control not only what you can watch, but what you can download?
There's still time to rethink; a fair number of Congressmen, from both parties, have misgivings about Mr. Powell's current direction. But time is running out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); BROADBAND (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (67%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; POWELL, MICHAEL (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



159 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: No Clear Way Forward for Airlines 

BYLINE:  By Michael E. Levine; Michael E. Levine, a former airline executive and government official involved with deregulation, teaches at Yale Law School.

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
Now that the Air Transportation Stabilization Board has rejected United Airlines' application for a $1.8 billion loan guarantee, perhaps the airline industry can finally begin the painful process of restructuring. Most airlines have a business model created in a time of high traffic and high fares. Those days aren't coming back -- and the sooner the airlines realize that, the better.
 The board's actions, and its reasons for them, signal that we are now at a turning point in the 25-year saga that has been airline deregulation. In an unusually detailed letter, the board said that United's problems were not temporary but structural, and that United's recovery plan "does not position the company to meet the challenges of the current airline industry environment and to achieve long-term financial stability." 
 United's plight is not unique. To a greater or lesser degree, its situation is shared by all of the large hub-and-spoke airlines that survived deregulation -- American, Continental, Delta, Northwest and US Airways (which is already in bankruptcy). Put simply, these airlines are competing for customers with a greatly expanded discount airline sector, and they all have contractual commitments -- labor, fleet and infrastructure -- that they can no longer meet.
These discount airlines -- Southwest, JetBlue, Frontier and others -- are one artifact of deregulation. They were meant to provide the competitive spur that would ensure that deregulation benefited the public by offering customers more choice and forcing the established airlines to become more nimble. The early flowering of the discount sector required the old-line carriers to adapt with hub-and-spoke systems, discounted fares, frequent-flyer programs and the like.
It worked. Given more convenient service at competitive fares, customers stuck to the airlines they knew. By the mid-1980's, the first wave of discount carriers had subsided, with discounters reduced to a slowly growing single-digit percentage of the domestic industry.
The industry then endured its usual boom-and-bust cycles. Some airlines (Pan Am, Eastern, TWA) simply disappeared; the ones that survived expanded or were forced to contract along with the economy. In good times they bought more planes, upgraded their facilities and agreed to ever more generous labor contracts. During bad times employees accepted "givebacks" or wage freezes, but they bargained hard to preserve the underlying contract structure. During the late 1990's, when the economy was vibrant and growing, the airlines expanded rapidly. Unions took advantage of the growth to negotiate favorable contracts that raised labor costs to unprecedented levels.
In part to pay for these higher costs, airlines attempted to raise fares. But leisure travelers do not buy expensive tickets. So the airlines looked to business travelers booking tickets on short notice, who valued the convenience of frequent service at nearby airports. Business fares rose almost 50 percent between 1999 and 2001; walkup business fares often were 10 times more than leisure fares booked in advance.
This strategy backfired. First business travelers looked to travel on leisure fares even if it meant advance purchases and Saturday night stays. Then they started to look for airlines with cheaper fares. In this environment, the discount sector flourished again. Southwest Airlines grew rapidly and is now the most profitable airline in the industry. Soon other discount airlines appeared, and today one of every four tickets sold in America is on a discount airline, compared to fewer than one in 10 four years ago.
Then came Sept. 11. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, many business travelers stayed home. When they finally did start to fly again, they found that they had more alternatives than ever before -- they didn't have to pay the exorbitant prices of the late 1990's. They could fly on a discount airline or find a cheap Internet fare on one of the traditional airlines.
Thus we arrive at the present day. What the Air Transportation Stability Board recognized -- but United did not -- is that even when business improves, the old fare structure isn't coming back. Business customers will no longer pay $600 or $900 each way to go from Sioux Falls, S.D., or Newark to New Orleans. They'll find another airline to take them for much less, even if they have to drive to Omaha or Kennedy Airport. The hub-and-spoke airlines will have to offer more competitive fares to all customers.
The very same hub-and-spoke system that the airlines created in response to deregulation is now being exploited by the discount airlines, which operate on its fringes. Yet the established airlines need not abandon the hub-and-spoke system, which has served both airlines and passengers well. They simply need to operate it more efficiently.
Airlines now have to do the restructuring that they have been putting off for the better part of a decade. This restructuring can be done under the protection of bankruptcy or outside it. But it will succeed only if bankruptcy is a threat, which means no more federal loan guarantees. An aircraft lessor, for example, will insist on its monthly payments even if the airplane is sitting in the desert -- but only as long as it is confident that its customers can't go to bankruptcy court and send the keys back. A pilot will insist on the right to make $200,000 a year or more flying 50 hours a month -- unless he or she faces the prospect of a job at another airline involving more flying and less pay.
If they can reduce labor, equipment and other costs to more reasonable levels, these airlines will find that the hub-and-spoke system will allow them to prosper. By concentrating their flights at a hub, they can offer more frequent service to more destinations than the discount airlines. And they can offer reasonable fares on many seats by using the Internet or other technology.
Only this kind of restructuring will enable airlines like United, American, Delta and Northwest to run their businesses profitably. Only actions like the Airline Transportation Stabilization Board's will force these airlines, and their workers, to face this reality.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (J. D. King) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); DEREGULATION (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LEISURE TRAVEL (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LABOR 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (90%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (91%) UNITED AIRLINES; AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (90%); PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

PERSON: LEVINE, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



160 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: A CRIME REVISITED: VOICES; 
City Reminded of Fears It Believed It Left Behind

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
When she reflects on the Central Park jogger case and its messy reappearance in the city's consciousness after 13 years, Joyce Slochower said, the twists in the case have magnified her mistrust of the criminal justice system. "It's aroused my cynicism," she said. "We've been through a year of idolatrizing our cops and firemen. I would call this the illusion ruptured."
 Professor Slochower, 52, who teaches psychology at Hunter College and is a psychoanalyst, added, "I feel a sense of endangerment that the system rewards speed more than accuracy." 
 The jogger rape case, infused with shocking brutality and the intersections of race and class, was a transformative moment in the city's history. What happened that evening in the park seemed to crystallize all that was wrong with New York and to suggest that it had devolved into a tameless and racially polarized battleground in which even its youths were capable of the most wanton acts. No one was safe, not anywhere. New Yorkers were introduced to an unfamiliar urban horror called wilding: marauding bands of teenagers preying on residents seemingly for little more than sadistic pleasure. 
Years passed. Policing changed. Crime retreated. The city became a different city, and the moment receded, one more dark episode consigned to the archives. 
With the recent re-emergence of the case through the confession of Matias Reyes and now the Manhattan district attorney's call for the dismissal of the convictions of the five men who were imprisoned for the crime, many New Yorkers find themselves reappraising the past and the coil of emotions the case prompted. 
They are angry that justice was not achieved and that the finality that accompanied the convictions was actually illusory. 
Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and now president of the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy, said the case and its return were important for different reasons. "We were angry and frustrated in 1989," he said, "and we're frustrated and bewildered in 2002. I think they're both bad."
He added: "This strikes at the very heart of our system of justice. I remember everybody's outrage at the time, and it reminds me that how, given some perspective, we might even say how overheated we get at certain things."
By again confronting the grisly details of the episode, New Yorkers have found themselves examining their sense of crime and the city. Many said they have not thought much about the unraveling of the case because they feel so much safer today from street crimes. Terrorism, though, has their full attention.
"We're living in a different place," said Ramon Valentin, a 37-year-old bus driver. "It's not all the crime and killing and drugs anymore. It's not as dangerous -- not for me, at least."
Mr. Valentin lives in the Morrisania section of the Bronx. He remembers when a decade ago, the nights were punctuated by gunfire and police sirens. He said his neighborhood was mostly peaceful now, which is why the jogger case seems ancient.
"It's like waking up in the past," he said. "Not like a nightmare or anything, but more like, 'Hey, hold on, we've been through this before.' The city has changed, but this thing just goes on and on. It's been gone for years, then all of a sudden it comes back? It makes you wonder what other things are going to come back."
In 1989, Barbara Stout, a massage therapist and interfaith minister, was living just off Central Park on West 85th Street. She was 35 then. She still lives in the same apartment. She had a boyfriend then who liked to run, and she would run with him in the park, not far from where the jogger ran.
She knew terror firsthand. A few years earlier, when she was coming out of a subway station in Chelsea, two teenage boys accosted her. One stuck a gun in her ribs and said, "Give me your purse." She shut her eyes and screamed at the top of her lungs. The boys fled. She was lucky. She knew they could just as easily have shot her.
She was tremendously unsettled when the jogger was raped and beaten, but it has been years since she has thought much about that sort of danger, she said. "You don't think of wilding anymore," she said. "The city has been cleaned up. The subways are much safer. I'm more concerned about someone having a bomb in a backpack in the subway and blowing me up."
Yet a number of people could not help being struck by an eerie conjunction of events. Yesterday, the district attorney called for the dismissal of the rape convictions against the five men. Last Friday, according to the police, a young woman was brutally beaten and raped in a bathroom in Lincoln Terrace Park in Crown Heights, Brooklyn -- by five men. It made some people wonder whether we are safer.
Professor Slochower said that revisiting the case made her realize that she felt less safe today than she thought she did. Despite statistical evidence that the city is far less dangerous, she said, she has heard the same sentiments from students and patients. She said the rape in Brooklyn last week might be part of it, but her unease was also caused by her own experience. In September, her apartment on West 75th Street was robbed. The only thing taken was her mother's diamond engagement ring. 
It has not caused her to change her behavior. She still walks through Central Park to work. She still bikes in the park. But she feels more of a sense of peril. 
Of course, people have also been debating the guilt or innocence of the five men who served time.
Kenneth Levy, 37, a psychology professor at Hunter College who lives in Manhattan, said: "It was such a devastating attack that people felt a powerful need to contain all the emotions coming out of it and have a sense of closure. Now that sense of containment has been sort of tweaked. It seems all we're sure of is that an attack occurred and a not-so-reputable person was involved in it. That's about all we know."
The new developments have convinced some people that racism played a role in the convictions.
"The cops lie," said Jasson Nixon, 31, who is unemployed. "You think five white kids who say, 'I was there, I was there,' and none of the places add up to where the thing actually happened are going to prison?" He shook his head. "They caught who needed to get caught and that was it. End of story."
Taking sides has made for vigorous barroom discussion.
"I still think they're guilty," said James Ohanlon, 35, who with his brother runs Ohanlons Bar in Forest Hills, Queens. "You don't admit to a crime you didn't commit, especially in front of your parents. At least I wouldn't."
Two regulars at the bar -- Michael King, 46, a mail carrier, and Richie Shaw, 67, who is retired -- got into an hourlong discussion of the case Wednesday evening. 
Mr. King agreed with the district attorney that the convictions of the five should be vacated. After all, there was the new DNA evidence. Mr. Shaw took the opposite view.
Mr. King: "They were singing about it, but maybe they didn't do it." He added, "They were children."
Mr. Shaw: "What you think -- they should be excused because they were kids? I come from the old school. When you are wrong, you're wrong, and you pay the price." 
Rabbi Roger Ross, 62, director of the New Seminary in Manhattan, said his reaction was that the city had done little in the subsequent years to address the underlying social forces that he believes set the stage for the crime. "The most important thing we should be concentrating on is individuals who are so far left out of our system that they become antisocial and they become the enemy of anyone who has something," he said.
Considering the weakened economy and budget cutbacks, he said, "are we heading into another cycle of violence?" 
The other day, when he was walking to the bus on the Upper West Side, he noticed several broken car windows, acts of vandalism that gave him pause. He looked at the shattered glass and thought back to the time of the jogger case and wondered.
Many people want deeper answers for the unexpected turns in the case. Jennifer Brissett, 33, who operates Indigo Books and Cafe in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, is convinced that the police and the district attorney's office are at fault. "The D.A., the police, the whole city has got some real serious answering to do, not just to black people," she said. "All of New York is owed a very big explanation." 
She went on: "I look at the lady who was raped, but you really can't blame her. She went through a terrible trauma, to think that five men attacked you and now to discover the police never got the right person. She has to be wondering, just like the rest of us: what really happened to her that day?"
Similarly, Raymond Rodriguez, 29, a therapist who lives at 139th Street and Broadway, said the case caused him to muse about the wispy nature of truth. "How is the judicial system able to prosecute the right person?" he said. "How do we know what is true and what is not? As a therapist, I see the fine line between what is true and what is not. Do we ever know? Can we ever know?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters outside court before Manhattan prosecutors asked that all charges be dismissed in the jogger case. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); HISTORY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORISM (60%) SEX CRIMES; CONFESSIONS 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; REYES, MATIAS; MCCRAY, ANTRON; RICHARDSON, KEVIN; WISE, KHAREY; SALAAM, YUSEF; SANTANA, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CENTRAL PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



161 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Thanks for Not Stealing My Identity 

 BODY:
In a credit-dependent society, guarding personal information can require more work than protecting virtue. Receipts must be shredded and an eye kept on bills and credit reports. Tens of thousands become victims of identity theft every year, and the crime has become the top complaint that consumers file with the Federal Trade Commission. Such fraud, until recently the domain of pocket- and garbage-picking thieves, now takes little more than a password and a few taps at a computer. 
 That's what happened when, over a three-year period, a help-desk employee at a Long Island software company helped himself to the credit histories of some 30,000 people, which he sold to a ring of thieves. Three people have been arrested, and known losses to victims are estimated at $3 million. It is harder to measure the aggravation and trauma involved in re-establishing good credit. 
 The case demonstrates that individual effort alone will not prevent this crime. Credit-reporting agencies and lenders must do a better job of controlling the data they collect. They can start by not sharing that information so readily. Such looseness allows instant credit at department stores and the proliferation of mailed credit card offers, both widely abused identity portals for thieves. And the agencies must do more to ensure that their own employees are not themselves snooping and looting files. 
Senator Charles Schumer of New York -- which is second, after California, in the number of identity theft cases -- is calling on the F.T.C. to require more stringent standards of information collectors. He proposes employee background checks to ensure that criminals do not have access to credit information, and the enforcement of tighter reins on such information. These are welcome steps, especially now, when assumed identities hold the potential for far worse than spending mischief.
The credit reporting industry says that convenient credit has been fuel for the American economy and should not be hampered. But easy credit has its downsides, including the tendency to spend beyond one's means. It is bad enough when faced with such a debt, but even worse when you are forced to climb out of a hole not of your own making. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); RETAILERS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%) IDENTITY FRAUD; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; CREDIT; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; EDITORIALS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRIVACY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; CONSUMER PROTECTION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



162 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Down Markedly 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
The number of Americans signing up for unemployment benefits fell last week for the third consecutive week to its lowest level in almost two years, the Labor Department reported today. But it cautioned that the figures might have been affected by the Thanksgiving holiday. 
 Analysts nonetheless saw the data as good news for the economy. "The downward trend in claims suggests that the labor market is improving," Merrill Lynch said in a research note, "and there may have been some job growth in November." 
 Initial jobless claims fell by 13,000, to 355,000, in the week ended Nov. 30. That was the lowest since February 2001, and was lower than analysts' expectations for 378,000. 
The Labor Department said it could be difficult to seasonally adjust the figures during the holiday seasons in November and December. 
The four-week moving average of jobless claims, considered a more reliable measure because it irons out weekly fluctuations, also fell. It dropped by 10,500, to 376,500, remaining for the third week below the 400,000 mark that many consider a sign of a troubled labor market. 
And the number of workers remaining on state unemployment aid also fell. Continuing claims decreased by 123,000, to 3.5 million, in the week ended Nov. 23, the latest period this data was available. 
Today's figures came a day before the Labor Department's monthly employment report, which economists watch to aid clarification on the labor market. Analysts are forecasting that the economy added 38,000 jobs in November, but also expect the jobless rate to show an increase to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); THANKSGIVING (72%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



163 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
An improved outlook for online advertising as companies work to hone their approaches.

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives 

 BODY:
WHEN America Online warned Wall Street on Wednesday of larger-than-expected declines in advertising revenue this year and next, it seemed to reinforce the pessimism lingering over the health of the online marketplace. But the travails of the AOL Time Warner unit -- mostly resulting from the expiration of lucrative, long-term contracts -- obscure some promising trends in online advertising.
 Paid keyword searches, online classifieds and "rich media" ads -- which incorporate video, animation and sound effects -- are helping portals like Yahoo and more specific-content sites like ESPN.com buck the overall trend. 
 And after two years of double-digit declines in percentage terms, including this year's expected 11.5 percent fall. to $6.38 billion, online advertising is expected to bounce back next year, according to eMarketer, a market research firm in New York. In a study released Monday, eMarketer estimated that online advertising spending will rise 5 percent in 2003. 
Resistance to online advertising still exists among marketers, some of whom were stung by outlandish outlays during the Internet bubble. But many traditional marketers are now more comfortable with the medium, as shown by Frito-Lay's decision to triple the Doritos marketing budget devoted to online advertising.
"What's compelling to us about the long term is that people aren't just turning to the channel as an alternative way of getting information," said G. M. O'Connell, chairman at Modem Media, an online agency in Norwalk, Conn. "For many people it's the default way of getting information." 
Mr. O'Connell said his agency was urging clients like Kraft to spend their money on creating useful content to distribute online, in addition to advertising on established content sites. He also stressed the value of paid keyword searches, which place an advertiser's message next to search results on sites like Google. 
Maggie Boyer, vice president for media at Avenue A, an interactive agency in Seattle, said: "Search is knocking everything out of the water. We can't buy enough of it."
Mr. O'Connell said that being useful was by far the best way for marketers to engage Internet users. "Unless you're providing utility and value to customers, as opposed to messaging about yourself, you're missing the entire point," he said. "You can't annoy people into liking you," he said, referring to rich-media ads that take over consumers' screens or interrupt their use of sites.
But other, more traditional content sites that have had rebounds in ad spending argue that rich-media ads do work and that their customers are brand-loyal repeat visitors.
"People buying searches is definitely working for Google and Overture," said Jim Spanfeller, president and chief executive of Forbes.com, part of Forbes Inc. "We're going to be more successful at rich-media-oriented stuff." 
"Advertising is all about interruption," Mr. Spanfeller added. "Whether good or bad, advertising has worked best by borrowing eyeballs that are trying to do something else."
At Yahoo, the development of rich-media ads has meant new business from big brand advertisers like car companies, movie studios, and the Gap, which posted commercials from its fall campaign on Yahoo's "front page" before they were put on television. "Most of the money right now is coming from progress on the branding side," said Wenda Harris Millard, chief sales officer at Yahoo, where ad sales rose 22 percent in the third quarter compared with the period in 2001.
Jon Raj, the director of advertising at Visa International, said the company had found that larger-size ads, which the industry has increasingly adopted, had worked well for Visa. 
Brand-name Web sites, usually offshoots of other traditional media, have also benefited from the Darwinian winnowing of the industry. "This year the wheat was really separated from the chaff," said Martin A. Nisenholtz, the chief executive at New York Times Digital. "Advertisers began to focus on the audience more than on eyeballs."
Ad sales at Times Digital are up 33 percent through November, according to The New York Times Company. 
Despite the online industry's optimism, a more sobering perspective is provided by another statistic from eMarketer. Although online ad spending is expected to reach $8.10 billion by 2005, that figure is still less than the spending in 2000, which was $8.23 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (94%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BUDGETS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%); BRAND EQUITY (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); RETAILERS (60%); ANIMATION (56%) ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: AOL INC (85%); GOOGLE INC (58%); ESPN INC (57%); AQUANTIVE INC (55%); FRITO-LAY INC (55%); FORBES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER INC (AOL) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: IVES, NAT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



164 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE HOMETOWN; 
United's Plight Sends Shivers Through Chicago

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
As United Airlines hurtled toward an expected bankruptcy filing, workers, travelers and elected officials here, the airline's hometown, were left with many questions today. 
 The worry was not just over the fate of United, the world's second- largest carrier, but also over the fate of the airline's workers, the Chicago economy and the future of air service. 
 "If United goes bankrupt, think of all the people that are going to be unemployed," Justin Duberman, 32, a hockey agent on his way home to Boston, said as he stood in a United check-in line at O'Hare International Airport this morning. "To be honest, I don't know enough about what's going on behind closed doors about the situation. I just hope my flight leaves today." 
Mr. Duberman said the possibility of the airline's filing for bankruptcy protection had also left him wondering about frequent-flier miles. "I'm really concerned about that, actually," he said. "You get to a certain point where you just have so many."
For workers, there were more pressing concerns.
"Everybody's worried," said a United employee who has been with the airline as a ramp service worker at O'Hare for five years. "I tell these young guys, 'Have a background.' I have a business degree. If I leave here, I figure I can find another job." 
The employee, who insisted on anonymity, said: "A lot of people bought cars, homes and everything else, and now they've got to worry about how they are going to pay for all that. I'm very disenchanted about this company."
The news today that a federal panel had said that United's business plan was "not financially sound" and that government assistance in the form of $1.8 billion in loan guarantees would not solve the airline's competitive problems came as a blow to city and state officials, who had lobbied on behalf of the loan guarantees. But some, including Mayor Richard M. Daley, remained hopeful.
In a statement today, Mayor Daley said: "The Airline Transportation Stabilization Board's decision to deny the $1.8 billion loan application of United Airlines is a disappointment and a blow to United and its employees, who have contributed to Chicago's development as a world-class aviation center.
"United has been an excellent corporate citizen in the Chicago community. We are hopeful that they will long continue to provide first-rate service for the nation's air travelers. I am confident that Chicago will remain the center of transportation and aviation for the nation and indeed the world."
Earlier this week, in hopes of helping to strengthen United's case, Gov. George Ryan of Illinois said he supported a plan for the state to sell $200 million in bonds to help the airline.
Today, Dennis Culloton, a spokesman for Governor Ryan, called Wednesday's decision by the Air Transportation Stabilization Board "very disappointing."
"We thought that we were sending a strong message to Washington that this was important to our community and we were working in Springfield to try to provide additional support -- to put our money where our mouth is," Mr. Culloton said.
"At this point we've been in contact with United and we've told them that the governor is ready and willing to do whatever we can to continue to support United Airlines. We know that United is busy assessing the situation and determining its next steps. But we continue to be foursquare behind United." 
"There's some comfort," he added "in the fact that operations are continuing at United as they go through this difficult period." 
On Tuesday, United announced plans to lay off 352 pilots within the next three months, reducing the total to about 8,250. The airline also said it planned to cut senior management ranks by 18 percent, to 36 senior managers. Some workers fear that more layoffs -- and the airline's filing for bankruptcy protection -- are only a matter of time.
"It's pretty much inevitable now," said a pilot who has worked with United more than 10 years. "For me, personally, it probably will not be that much of an impact because of my seniority. But some of the more junior guys are going to lose their job."
Paul M. Green, a political scientist at Roosevelt University, likened United -- a hometown airline -- to a hometown sports team, and the rejection of United's loan guarantee, to defeat.
"When you win you have a high," Mr. Green said. "When you lose, you have a low. Obviously this one hits us in the gut, because United has been associated with us for a long time."
For Todd Lamb, a United passenger at O'Hare today, news of United's troubles was still settling in.
"It actually kind of surprised me," said Mr. Lamb, 32, who manages a hospital radiology department and was on his way home to Minneapolis. "I have always thought that United's business was pretty stable.
"Am I concerned about it?" Mr. Lamb added. "Yeah. It would be really unfortunate in terms of competitive pricing. It's a tough economy out there. I guess they've got to do what they've got to do. Hopefully, they can make the changes and get everything worked out."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At O'Hare International Airport yesterday, Justin Duberman, who was awaiting a flight to Boston, said the fragile health of United Airlines had him concerned about frequent-flier miles. (Scott Olson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (69%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (69%); TRENDS (60%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: FOUNTAIN, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



165 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: DECEMBER SURPRISE: THE STORM; 
An Early Blast of Winter Snarls Travel and Disrupts Region

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
The first major winter storm of the season -- uncommon in its timing and its intensity -- bullied its way up the Eastern Seaboard yesterday, snarling airports and highways, closing schools and offices and blanketing New York with more snow in a single day than the city received through all of last winter. 
 The vast storm caused thousands of traffic accidents from North Carolina to Connecticut as it barreled across a third of the country in the last few days, powered by a blast of arctic air and an intensifying El Nino that meteorologists are predicting will cause extreme weather well into next year. 
 For many, though, the oddest aspect of the storm was that so much snow fell so early. Winter does not formally begin until Dec. 22, but meteorologists consider the first week of December the beginning of the season.
Nothing like this storm has come to New York City since 1938, according to meteorological records. Coming just a week after Thanksgiving, and with leaves still clinging to the sycamore trees in Bryant Park, the snow was a blustery dose of weather reality for those lulled by years of mild winters into thinking that the season is no longer what it used to be. 
The six inches that fell on Central Park by late last night was nearly double the 3.5 inches that was recorded throughout all of last winter. 
"This could be payback time," said Frederick J. Gadomski, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University. "Cold and snow are still a part of New York winter weather. This early taste of winter should be a reminder of that."
And a reminder that snow brings both economic costs and benefits. For ski resorts in the area, the first significant snowfall since February 2001 is a welcome blast of winter. The storm will also lay down snow cover that will help replenish reservoirs badly hurt by a lack of significant snow last year. Malls and stores just beginning their crucial holiday shopping seasons are hoping that the snow will be a wash, making it difficult for shoppers to travel for a while but convincing them that Christmas is only three weeks away. 
The storm was also a fiscal reality check for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other elected officials in the region, who are struggling to balance their budgets. For them, the accumulating piles of snow look like nothing so much as mounting debts. "Every mayor would love to have very few snow days," Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday as he took command of the first snow emergency of his administration.
Facing a $6.4 billion deficit next year, the mayor equated snowflakes with dollar signs, telling reporters that it costs the city about $1 million an inch to clear the snow. A four- to six-inch snowfall in the first week of December would clearly make a substantial dent in the city's $20 million snow removal budget. 
Still, streets had to be cleared. The city's armada of 1,000 plow trucks and 2,300 sanitation workers began work at daybreak and continued throughout the day as the snow continued falling heavily, snarling traffic on city streets and for suburban commuters throughout the region. 
Gray skies and swirling snow made it difficult to see more than a few blocks around Times Square, and forced Staten Island Ferry pilots to slow down crossing times until visibility improved. 
But the signs of winter were unmistakable everywhere. By late afternoon, street corners in Times Square were overflowing with slush the consistency of leftover farina; snowblowers that had not been fired up all last winter were coaxed, stumbling and coughing, out of storage; and bicycle messengers tried to continue looking cool as they negotiated slippery streets while pedaling in yellow rubber boots. 
Meteorologists at the National Weather Service consider this storm "noteworthy" because of its power and unusual timing. They have followed it intensely since it gathered strength in the Western states earlier this week. Jim Hoke, director of the service's hydrometeorological prediction center, said the storm ran along a rough axis from Oklahoma to North Carolina before turning northeast along the coast. 
"That's when a nor'easter developed off the North Carolina coast," Dr. Hoke said. 
The storm hit North and South Carolina particularly hard, pelting large sections of the states with freezing rain and unaccustomed snow. Electric service to 1.5 million people in both states was knocked out, and highways became automotive skating rinks as drivers with little experience with freezing conditions tried to negotiate dark and snow-slicked roads. 
At least 20 people have died in the storm since it roared out of the West, news agencies reported. Authorities said eight people were killed in traffic accidents in Kentucky and Missouri. On Long Island, the acclaimed tenor saxophone player Bob Berg, 51, of East Hampton was killed and his wife, Arja, 52, was injured yesterday morning on Route 27 when their car was struck by a cement truck, the authorities said. She was in stable condition last night in Southampton Hospital, a hospital spokeswoman said.
Carolina Power and Light reported that 470,000 customers in North Carolina were without power yesterday afternoon. Duke University had to cancel a national Internet chat it had planned for prospective students Wednesday night because the organizers could not get to the campus. 
After turning toward the Northeast, the storm plowed up the coast, dumping six inches of snow in Washington, Baltimore and other major cities.
The snow made winter seem to encroach on autumn the way the hockey season seems to overlap with football. The last time it snowed so much so early was in 1938, when a late November storm dumped 8.8 inches in New York City.
Yesterday morning, snow started falling in the New York region about 7 a.m., beating forecasts by a few hours. Classes in many southern New Jersey schools were canceled before children arrived. In other areas, schools were open but classes were dismissed early. 
Two days of subfreezing temperatures earlier in the week meant that snow began accumulating as soon as the first flakes hit the pavement, offering the kind of day tow truck drivers like Frank Guenther live for. 
"Today is the money day," said Mr. Guenther as he hooked chains from his tow truck to a white Ford van that had spun off the Garden State Parkway near Pleasantville, N.J. Mr. Guenther, 37, said his family's business, Guenther & Sons Towing, had 10 trucks out and could not respond to all the calls that came in. 
Sgt. Kevin Rehmann of the New Jersey State Police estimated that there were hundreds of minor accidents across New Jersey. And although the southern part of the state received more snow, Sergeant Rehmann said it was the more heavily traveled northern section, around Interstates 80, 78 and 287, where most of the accidents were concentrated. 
On Long Island, there were power failures and at least 280 minor accidents by midafternoon, even as hundreds of snowplows tried to keep major expressways clear. Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said the county's budget problems made the early snow more unwelcome than usual. He estimated that the storm would cost the county nearly $150,000, and said, "If this happens an awful lot between now and the end of the year, we're going to have a problem."
Keeping highways clear and traffic flowing also taxed New Jersey's officials. Kevin Davitt, a spokesman for Gov. James E. McGreevey, said the state had spent money clearing roads after a series of small ice storms in recent weeks. "While the budget for snow removal and storm preparation is not broke," Mr. Davitt said, "it's perilously close, and this doesn't help."
The region's trains were a far safer and more reliable bet than cars for most of the day. The Metro-North Railroad reported that its trains were running on or close to schedule throughout the day. New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road began experiencing 15- to 20-minute delays by early evening. 
The snow and near freezing temperatures caused mounting delays of up to five hours at metropolitan area airports. By late afternoon, flights leaving Newark Liberty International Airport were delayed by as much as four hours. Incoming flights did little better, being delayed by about two hours. Dozens of flights were canceled throughout the day. La Guardia Airport and Kennedy Airport both had substantial delays and cancellations. Noting that hundreds of travelers were likely to be stranded, Mayor Bloomberg encouraged them to bring "books and magazines to read."
In Connecticut, which was hit hard by a snowstorm last week that skirted New York and New Jersey, Gov. John G. Rowland ordered agency heads to dismiss all nonessential state workers at 1 p.m. A long line of cars, their headlights glittering in the gray afternoon, stretched down arteries leading out of Hartford. Children throughout the region were delighted by the early onset of winter, and undoubtedly hoped that a big snowfall during the first week of December would lead to many other snow days -- and school cancellations -- before spring, which is not entirely wishful thinking. 
"It certainly is possible that this storm is a harbinger of what is to come this winter," said Dr. Hoke of the National Weather Service. With El Nino threatening to stir up trouble, there is an increased likelihood of more winter storms, he said, but "winter storms do not necessarily mean snow" in this area. 
Despite the professional prognostications, some people remain convinced that old-fashioned winters are unlikely to return. 
Keith Desimone, a computer network consultant from Garden City, N.Y., who works on Wall Street, said he doubted the early snowfall was an omen of a cruel winter. "Weather is so crazy, I wouldn't count on it," said Mr. Desimone, 25. "For all we know, this could be the only snow we get all winter."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the weather misstated the last time an intense snowstorm came to New York City this early in the season. It was on Dec. 3 and 4, 1957, when eight inches fell in Central Park, not in 1938.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In what seemed like a mixed seasonal message, a woman held roses amid snow at East Houston and Clinton Streets. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METEOROLOGY (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (86%); CHRISTMAS (78%); EL NINO & LA NINA (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); SKIING (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); RESORTS (66%); SKIING FACILITIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



166 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
High-Speed Wireless Internet Network Is Planned

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
The wireless technology known as WiFi, which allows users of personal and hand-held computers to connect to the Internet at high speed without cables, got a significant stamp of approval today when AT&T, I.B.M. and Intel announced a new company to create a nationwide network.
 The unruly technology, which has largely been a playground for hackers, hobbyists and high-technology start-ups, is already sprouting mushroomlike in coffee shops, bookstores, airports, hotels, homes, businesses and even a few parks. 
 The new company, Cometa Networks, has set ambitious goals for itself: to deploy more than 20,000 wireless access points by the end of 2004, placing an cable-less high-speed Internet connection within either a five-minute walk in urban areas or a five-minute drive in suburban communities.
Executives from the technology companies and the two investment firms, Apax Partners and 3i, that joined to create the network said they would begin offering their service through cellular and wired telephone companies, D.S.L. and cable Internet service providers and other Internet retailers some time in 2003. 
The service is intended to let subscribers pop open their laptops and have a seamless high-speed wireless extension of their personal or corporate Internet services -- initially in the 50 largest metropolitan areas -- without having to give credit card numbers or enter additional information, as is generally the case now. Connections would generally be at least the speed of a typical home broadband connection.
Cometa executives said that they expected the national availability of the wireless network would combine with Intel's planned inclusion of wireless Internet capability in all its mobile microprocessors next year to spur a fundamental shift in the way Americans will use the Internet.
"This is that big," said Dr. Lawrence B. Brilliant, chief executive of Cometa Networks. "It's that exciting; it's that much of a distortion in the computing field. It's a change in the way people use technology."
Until now WiFi has been viewed by many technology analysts as an upstart from-the-bottom technology that has the potential of upsetting other capital-intensive technology deployments, like the expensive next-generation data-oriented cellular networks known as 2.5G and 3G that are being established by companies like AT&T Wireless, Cingular, Nextel, T-Mobile, Sprint and Verizon.
But Cometa executives said that because they had chosen a wholesale business strategy, in which they will not sell Internet service directly to consumers or business, it is more likely that the two technologies would complement each other. In addition, users of the wireless access points would generally be stationary while connecting to the Internet.
"WiFi has very high bandwidth and short range, while 2.5 and 3G cellular are lower bandwidth services designed to support data services on the fly," said Theodore Schell, chairman of Cometa Networks and a general partner of Apax Partners. "They will have different cost equations, and there is a place for both of these technologies."
Industry analysts have said they believe that growing WiFi use could steal valuable subscribers from cellular companies that are hoping consumers will begin using their cellphones for data services like movie times, restaurant reviews and shopping deals wherever they are traveling.
The Cometa executives said they were not certain how the new network would be used but were convinced that the nation's 100 million Internet users would begin to use their portable computers in new ways once connections are widely and easily available as they travel.
The executives and industry analysts acknowledged that creating a new nationwide wireless network was something of an act of faith given the general economic and technological gloom in the telecommunications industry. It is widely believed that the industry had overbuilt and had overinvested in the Internet boom of the last decade.
The new company would not disclose its planned prices or the equity stakes of the five partners. Wireless industry analysts, however, have said WiFi hot spots can cost as much as $4,000 apiece to install in public places. If the average cost is half that, the installation of 20,000 access points would cost $40 million.
"One of the problems is that giant companies creating wireless ventures often have not had tremendous success," said Alan Reiter, publisher of Wireless Internet and Mobile Computing, an industry newsletter based in Chevy Chase, Md. He pointed to ambitious and expensive undertakings like a cellular data initiative known as C.P.D.P. in the 1980's and early 1990's and the wireless data service known as Metricom, which went bankrupt last year with $800 million of debts. 
Other analysts questioned whether Cometa Networks would be able to make headway in an already crowded WiFi marketplace that has had both early failures and a host of smaller, aggressive start-ups.
"It's obvious that what is happening right now is a wireless land grab," said Andrew Seybold, editor of Outlook 4Mobility, a publishing and consulting firm based in Los Gatos, Calif. "The question is, How many places can they lock up and how quickly?"
Cometa executives insisted, however, that they were in a different position from their predecessors. The companies have a technological advantage in that they will not have to create customer equipment, relying on Intel's equipping the nation's portable computers with wireless abilities. 
They said Cometa was also in a particularly strong position with respect to its competitors because it could use AT&T's existing data network, to connect the planned 20,000 wireless access points. 
Leaving the relationship with individual customers to Internet service providers "is smart from a business point of view," said Richard Miller, a wireless data industry consultant at Breo Ventures in Palo Alto, Calif. At the same time, he noted, the venture will not succeed unless big corporate customers demand the service from Internet service providers. 
"The demand will have to come from the enterprise to the carriers," he said.
To gain the confidence of corporate customers the new network will have to meet stringent data security standards, and Dr. Brilliant said that Cometa planned to take advantage of industry standards like virtual private networks to add security to the WiFi standard.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about a new national wireless Internet network misattributed an example of an earlier effort known as Metricom, which went bankrupt last year. It was cited by The Times, not by Alan Reiter, publisher of Wireless Internet and Mobile Computing.
The article also misstated the name of a cellular data initiative from the 1980's. It was known as C.D.P.D. -- for cellular digital packet data -- not C.P.D.P.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick Torre, left, uses a high-speed WiFi Internet connection at a coffee shop in San Francisco. Yesterday, I.B.M., Intel, AT&T and two investment firms announced a venture to create such a wireless network. (Susan Ragan)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (89%); 3G WIRELESS (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (89%); BROADBAND (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); BANDWIDTH (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); STARTUPS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); RETAILERS (76%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (72%); BOOKSTORES (71%); WHOLESALERS (70%); CITIES (69%); SUBURBS (68%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (93%); AT&T INC (86%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (86%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (56%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; INTEL CORP; COMETA NETWORKS; APAX PARTNERS & CO; THREE-I (3I) GROUP PLC 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (93%); T (NYSE) (86%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (86%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: BRILLIANT, LAWRENCE B (DR); MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



167 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: City Losing Federal Job Funds, Council Says 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
New York City is receiving less federal money to help people get jobs and could lose more because of an ongoing failure to spend what has been allocated, City Council officials said yesterday.
 At a hearing to review the city's employment programs, council members expressed concern that the city was not moving quickly enough to spend the federal funds. 
 Under the federal Workforce Investment Act, created in 1998, the city has received hundreds of millions of dollars to create one-stop career centers where job referrals, counseling, training and other services are provided. But government officials and workers' advocates have long expressed concern that the Giuliani administration had channeled most of the funds to the city's welfare agency to get people off welfare and had not offered enough support to people seeking work.
State and federal officials had warned city officials last year that about $70 million could revert to the federal coffers if not spent within two years.
Yesterday, the city's employment commissioner, Betty B. Wu, told the Council's General Welfare Committee that those millions in jeopardy, which have been available to the city since the middle of 2001, would be spent by the middle of next year. Already, Ms. Wu said, the city has opened two new one-stop centers, called Workforce 1 Career Centers, one in the Bronx, the other in Harlem, bringing the total to three. 
But council officials complained that there was still more than $96 million, allocated for the 2002 program year, that has not been touched. Ms. Wu told the committee that her agency, which took over the work force program earlier this year, would begin spending the 2002 funds once the 2001 money had been exhausted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BUDGETS (78%) LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: CARDWELL, DIANE; WU, BETTY B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



168 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: For Los Angeles's New Police Chief, a New World 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
William J. Bratton has come to town, and the world is watching.
 For the second time in a decade, he has taken a job as the top crime-fighter in a rudderless city adrift in a wave of homicide. And just as he did as the leader of the New York City Police Department in the early 90's, Mr. Bratton, the new police chief of Los Angeles, has placed himself squarely in the spotlight with aggressive tactics and tough talk. 
 In the past month, amid a flurry of gang killings and innocent victims, he has told the citizenry to "control your kids" and to "get angry." He has called on federal prosecutors to take on gang members with far-reaching organized-crime laws. He has raised eyebrows by comparing the Crips and Bloods to the Mafia. 
"Believe me, having spent time in New York City, the Mafia crime families were no more intimidating or impactful than the gangs of Los Angeles," he said the other day at the 77th Street Station in the city's South-Central section, a 12-square-mile neighborhood that has suffered 115 homicides this year, most of them gang related. "In many ways they're much more of a threat."
On Wednesday Mr. Bratton named a deputy chief to oversee antigang efforts, reviving a unit that had been disbanded after a police corruption scandal.
Although the crime problems here are nowhere as severe as they were a decade ago, the city Mr. Bratton is policing is likely to end the year as the nation's leader in the total number of homicides. As of Saturday there were 614 citywide, compared with 552 last year. 
Sixty percent of the homicides here were gang related, the police said, and more than half of those were committed south of the Santa Monica Freeway, which crosses the city just north of the South-Central district. 
Since being sworn in on Oct. 28, Mr. Bratton has consciously magnified the problem of gang violence, particularly in South-Central, in part to build public and political support for aggressive police tactics that could be controversial in a city with a history of police abuse.
"I'm trying to create a vision of where we're going as a police force," Mr. Bratton said by car phone Monday evening, on his way to deliver another speech. "So far, from the public relations standpoint, I've been very well received. Among other things, I'm trying to generate recognition by the media and the feds that we have to work together to stop this cancer that is spreading across America."
While many Angelenos are grateful that Mr. Bratton is confronting a problem that has festered for three decades, some question whether he understands the complexities of gang life. They are watching with a jaundiced eye and waiting to see whether he will offer more than the iron boot and bellicose rhetoric his predecessors did.
Making comparisons to the Mafia and calling gang members "nitwits," as Mr. Bratton has done, is counterproductive and misinformed, said the Rev. Greg Boyle, a Roman Catholic priest and director of Homeboy Industries, a gang rehabilitation center.
"Gang violence in L.A. is disorganized crime, exactly the opposite of what the police chief thinks it's comparable to," said Father Boyle, who has buried more than 100 gang members since the late 80's. "Al Capone is not what we're dealing with here. It's a shoot-from-the-hip analysis, and it brings back memories of the bad old days of Daryl Gates."
In the late 80's, when gang violence was spinning out of control, Chief Daryl F. Gates called for a major infusion of police officers into the South-Central section in sweeps known as Operation Hammer. It alienated black residents in particular, as men were swept up for things as routine as traffic violations, but did little to quell crime. Homicides peaked in Los Angeles in 1992 at 1,092. The low point of that era came with the beating of Rodney G. King and the subsequent riots.
The homicide rate dropped steadily after that, to a low of 419 in 1999, until it was discovered that a renegade gang unit from the Rampart Division was planting evidence, racially profiling and, in some cases, shooting suspects without justification. The gang units were disbanded, and the city signed a consent decree that among other provisions uses monitors to weed out corruption and wrongdoing.
Since then, demoralized officers have steadily left the department and the murder rate has steadily increased.
"Frankly, violence and murder have been a serious problem for quite a while," said John Mack, president of the Urban League of Los Angeles. "It's a sad commentary, the lack of value on the loss of life of people of color. In that regard, I really would commend our new chief for focusing the issue in the media. He's calling upon affluent white people to recognize that it's their problem, too."
The low-water mark of the Bratton era so far began on Nov. 16, when there were 16 homicides and five shootings involving officers, two of them fatal. It hit its worst six days later when a 14-year-old, Clive Jackson, described by those who knew him as a good kid with no gang affiliation, was shot dead outside a doughnut shop on Western Avenue.
The news media, which had been largely silent on the gang problem before Mr. Bratton took over, covered the killings extensively. Now, as Los Angeles surpasses Chicago in the number of homicides, the phrase "murder capital of America" is included in nearly every national television report.
Beyond the tough talk, Mr. Bratton has taken some concrete steps to remake the department in his image. He appointed Capt. Michael Hillman yesterday as the new antigang czar. He recently told member of his command staff that their jobs depended on crime going down. He dismissed half of the department's deputy chiefs and more firings are expected.
He has reached out to the minority communities. A new computer system is being installed to give up-to-the-minute statistics on crime hot spots. Officers have been redeployed to the southern district, and just a few weeks ago the department and a host of state and federal and state agencies swept through the city's notorious skid row in search of parole violators.
"Bratton was in fact brought in to reform the department, and then the gang violence was laid in his lap," said Joe Domanick, senior fellow at the Annenberg Institute of Justice and Journalism at the University of Southern California. "He's got about six months to get some traction, and people are watching him. But the thing he has going for him is that he's a big player, four levels more sophisticated than anyone in city government."
When Mr. Bratton took over the New York Police Department in 1994, the crime rate was already falling. The economy was booming then, and federal money for policing was pouring into the city.
What Mr. Bratton finds today in Los Angeles is a steady stream of violent parolees resurfacing in old neighborhoods, narcotics and gang units that take the weekends off, and a crime-tracking computer system that takes a month to plot crime patterns.
"The department is not organized to fight crime," Mr. Bratton said. "It's organized to circle the wagons. I'm trying to have it move towards being a proactive, risk-taking organization."
Mr. Bratton was known in New York not only for his crime fighting but also for his cocktail-hour company. He was ultimately fired by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a man who seemed to grow taller in the limelight and resented employees who stole it.
Mayor James K. Hahn said after Mr. Batton's confirmation last month that he would not mind if the police chief became the most famous man in Los Angeles, as long as he got the job done. So while the mayor was away last month on an official trip to China, the police chief was seen in the churches, at a boxing match and on the streets of South-Central.
While that makes good public relations, true success depends on the building a relationship between the precinct and the neighborhood.
"The L.A.P.D. has not been known for its leadership in terms of violence in South-Central," said Capt. Jim Tatreau of the robbery-homicide division. "We haven't responded to it in the critical way that we should. Reaching out to the community leaders is a good thing, but ultimately we have to reach out to the people on the streets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Capt. Michael Hillman, center, has been named as the new antigang czar of Los Angeles. William J. Bratton has been focusing attention on the city's gang problem's since taking over the Police Department. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) Chart: "Los Angeles Killings"At their peak in 1992, gang-related homicides in Los Angeles represented 40 percent of all homicides. They now represent more than 50 percent. 1992 PEAKAfter riots by rival gangs, the Crips and Bloods call a truce, and the F.B.I. assigns 22 agents to investigate gangs in the city Graph shows the number of gang-related homicides and all other homicides from 1985 to 2002.2002 numbers as of Nov. 30; classifications are preliminary (Source: Los Angeles Police Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CORRUPTION (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SCANDALS (64%); GANGS (55%) POLICE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; GANGS; ORGANIZED CRIME 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; STRATTON, WILLIAM J (CHIEF); HILLMAN, MICHAEL (CAPT) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



169 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: A Crisis of Broken Laws and Faith 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 That the Archdiocese of Boston should entertain bankruptcy as an option is not only shameful but ironic (news article, Dec. 3). 
It wasn't that long ago that churches considered bankruptcy itself to be a fault worthy of church discipline, entailing suspension from the sacraments. It was regarded as an attempt to get away with breaking faith and not keeping your word. 
 Modern economic complexity has made this view unrealistic. Yet the underlying moral issues remain. The assets of the church are at stake. But what are the assets of a church if not credibility, integrity and humility?

(Rev.) DANIEL MEETER
Brooklyn , Dec. 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHILD ABUSE (59%) PRIESTS; BANKRUPTCIES; SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: MEETER, DANIEL (REV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) BOSTON (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



170 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 4671 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "A VERY PRIVATE COLLECTION: JANICE H. LEVIN'S IMPRESSIONIST PICTURES," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Feb. 9). Quiet acquisitors who never went public with their holdings, Janice and Philip Levin assembled a strong if not venturesome collection of Impressionist and other works, including Bonnard, Cassatt, Corot, Derain, Giacometti, Monet, Modigliani, Morisot, Picasso, Pissarro, Toulouse-Lautrec and Vuillard. Among the gems are Monet's celebrations of nature "Artist's Garden at Argenteuil" from 1873 and his "On the Cliff at Pourville, Clear Weather"; Degas's acutely observed "A la Bourse (Portraits in the Stock Exchange)"; and Derain's "Plate of Peaches," a tiny but firmly structured composition meant as a homage to Cezanne. As with every collection, there are weaknesses, including a cliched Renoir, "Gondola in Venice." But collections are all about taste, and this is one where it was firmly exercised. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7, students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* "THE ADVENTURES OF HAMZA," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 26). If Great Books were judged great by size and illustrations alone, the "Hamzanama," or "Story of Hamza," made for the Mughal emperor Akbar in 16th-century India, would be one of the greatest of all. It was originally more than 1,200 pages long. Each page was two feet tall. The paintings, which tell of the encounters of a mythical warrior-prince, Hamza, with demons, dragons and giants, are fantastic. The book exists only as fragments now, but about 200 of the finest surviving pages have been brought together from around the world for this exhibition. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3, students and 62+ (Holland Cotter).

* "COLOR AND ECSTASY: THE ART OF HYMAN BLOOM," National Academy of Design Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)369-4880 (through Dec. 29). The museum has announced a series of shows "celebrating the artistic achievement of once-renowned artists whose careers have fallen into relative obscurity." Mr. Bloom, almost 90, is certainly a deserving choice, and he gets the project off to a bracingly idiosyncratic start. Although well known in New York in the years around World War II, this expressionist painter stayed in New England, where he has led a spiritually adventurous life. It is documented in this overview of an intensely personal, sometimes difficult art steeped in mysticism, nature and an unsparing but transcendental view of mortality. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission $8; $4.50 for students and 65+ (Cotter).

"STUART DAVIS: ART AND THEORY, 1920-31," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0008 (through Dec. 15). The mountain of papers, notebooks and sketchbooks left by Davis (1892-1964) show that his jazzy, spontaneous-looking works didn't just happen. They evolved from meticulous plotting on paper, in words and drawings, before he put brush to canvas. To celebrate its acquisition of his earliest known diary, dated 1920-22, and a 1926 sketchbook, the Morgan has mounted a small show of 12 drawings and paintings that point up the role of the sketchbook and diary in the development of his artistic theory between 1920 and 1931. The gouache "Coffee Pot No. 2" (1930), a brightly colored, boldly patterned streetscape, for example, reflecting his fascination with urban life and signage, derives directly from a modest drawing in the sketchbook. By putting the roots of Davis's work in context with some of its early flowerings, the Morgan has found a lucid way to present its important new acquisition. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6 for students and 65+ (Glueck).

* "DRAWING NOW: EIGHT PROPOSITIONS," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Jan. 6). This generous sampling of work by 26 young artists provides a sweeping, even opulent view of drawing at the threshold of the 21st century. The variety of techniques and materials, the mix of large-scale feats of draftsmanship with clusters of framed works, the breadth of sources (from American quilt patterns to Japanese anime to 19th-century illustration) and the range of narrative ambition create an exhilarating sense of possibility. The division of the work into eight approaches, or propositions, balances coherence with diversity. Some of the artists illustrate rather than fully embody the curators' categories, and there is an excess of fashionable, even overexposed artists from a handful of hot galleries. Nonetheless, "Drawing Now" is required viewing for anyone remotely interested in today's art. It sets a standard for future shows of its kind. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; until 7:45 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $12; $8.50, students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

* "CARROLL DUNHAM: PAINTINGS," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Feb. 2). Also, "Carroll Dunham: Drawings, 1985-2002," Nolan/Eckman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 925-6190 (through Dec. 20). Two midcareer surveys of Mr. Dunham trace his arc across two decades from psychedelic abstraction toward a figuration of escalated nuttiness and technical panache. He is squarely at the heart of the modern cartoon aesthetic; its pathos may turn out to be the signature of our age. In his case, abject subject matter and woolly psychodrama are tempered by low-key amiability. When his works fail, they fail in the direction of too-easy decoration and cheerful psychedelia. Otherwise, they succeed on the bases of sly humor, self-mockery and a kind of sneaky, unpretentious charm. There is no preaching or political doctrine. His paintings emerge from the act of painting; they are Process Art of a peculiar kind and they deliver us into a funny-sad realm, conjured up to purge a few ghosts, maybe, and to provide us with pleasure. That, and the sense of wit to recognize our essential folly, is plenty. Musuem hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* "GENESIS: IDEAS OF ORIGIN IN AFRICAN SCULPTURE," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through April 13). This splendid show, installed in the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing, examines African myths about the creation of the world, the foundations of kingship and the formation of the family as told in the art of more than a dozen sub-Saharan cultures. The images range from naturalistic figures to fantastic animals and culminate in a coup de theatre display of some 40 Bamana headdresses, many of the classic Ci Ware type. The dynamic is one of ethical persuasion, physical and psychological healing and a holistic connection to the world through objects of irrepressible energy and beauty. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "THE NATIVE BORN: CONTEMPORARY ABORIGINAL ART FROM RAMINGINING, AUSTRALIA," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 (through Jan. 5). Like other Aboriginals, the Yolngu people of Arnhem Land in northern Australia make images on rock and bark, and also make sculptures and do weaving. Their crosshatched paintings are less familiar yet every bit as lively and aesthetically inventive as the "dot and circle" work by the people of the central Australian desert, who are more widely associated with the term Aboriginal. Taking inspiration from ancestral myth and legend as well as from the waterholes, beaches, forests, swamps, jungles and plains that surround them, the Yolngu produce stylized versions of saltwater crocodiles, lizards, birds, fish and vines. More than 200 examples -- including a ritual sand sculpture saluting the creation story about the two sisters who brought water to the land at its birth -- make a visual feast of remarkable freshness. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5 for students and 65+ (Glueck).

* "BILL VIOLA: GOING FORTH BY DAY," Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 12). An ambitious meditation on the epic themes of human existence, this frescolike video installation consists of five panels, shot using the latest technology and projected simultaneously on the walls of one huge gallery. Each deals with a specific theme: rebirth, journey through life, disaster, death and resurrection. Inspired by the works of Renaissance painters like Giotto and Luca Signorelli, the show relates as much to still painting as it does to the moving images of cinema and television. Except for a few scenes, the action is almost in slow motion, suggesting the stasis of looking at paintings and allowing the viewer to shift attention from panel to panel without losing focus. The liveliest scene is "The Deluge," in which a series of ordinary street events occurs before the facade of a Classical-looking house. They are interrupted by a tumultuous flood pouring out of the building's apertures that sends people running for their lives. If some of the imagery is corny, it is still a deeply felt and provocative piece of work. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8, students and 65+ (Glueck).

Galleries: Uptown

JOHN EVANS, "Collages," Pavel Zoubok, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 879-5858 (through Dec. 21). Every day from the early 60's to the end of the 20th century, Mr. Evans created a new collage, 33 of which are here. His compact compositions of ticket stubs, bottle and box labels, photographs and other ephemera with cityscapes, ducks and abstract elements added in richly colored inks are often associated with those of Ray Johnson, but Mr. Evans's works have their own distinctively emblematic form and sweetly poetic charm (Ken Johnson).

* JOSEPH CORNELL, Allan Stone, 113 East 90th Street, (212) 987-4997 (through Dec. 20). The hauntingly powerful, nostalgic universes that Joseph Cornell built from bits and pieces of the real world are displayed in this show of more than 30 works -- toys, objects, box constructions and collages -- arranged in early honor of the artist's centenary at the end of next year. They include examples of his aviaries, cases enshrining cut-out wooden birds; sand boxes, in which colored sands shift when their container is shaken; soap bubble sets that qualify as pipe dreams, and celestial boxes like the stunning "Untitled (Jupiter in Pisces)," from about 1958, in which the planet, looming in blue interstellar space, is seen in its zodiacal position over a close-up dreamscape. Of particular interest are the toys and tchotchkes he made, not often exhibited. There are more than enough treasures here to overcome occasional lapses into preciousness (Glueck).

"HIGH NOTES OF AMERICAN MODERNISM: SELECTIONS FROM THE COLLECTION OF TOMMY AND GILL LIPUMA," Berry-Hill Galleries, 11 East 70th Street, (212) 744-2300 (through Dec. 31). Concentrated on four American artists of the early 20th century -- Alfred Maurer, Arnold Friedman, Marsden Hartley and John Marin -- this show of 40 works was assembled over three decades. Far outnumbering works by the other artists are those of Maurer, an expatriate modernist who was one of the first Americans to assimilate sophisticated European painting styles. Among the Maurer standouts are an early still life from his Fauve period, "The Painted Bowl With Chicken," and some beautifully wrought late canvases that helped to shape an American Cubist vocabulary. Nine Friedmans attest to the vibrancy of his work -- a kind of Impressionist figuration. This highly personal collection has enough pizazz to make any art lover's day (Glueck).

Galleries: Chelsea

* KARIN DAVIE, Mary Boone, 541 West 24th Street, (212) 752-2929 (through Dec. 21). Spirits will be lifted by Ms. Davie's exuberantly sensuous abstract paintings. Undulating, striated ribbons in high-contrast colors fill the canvases, seeming to balloon into three-dimensional space and threatening to burst the rectangular edges of the picture. Painting wet into wet with seemingly effortless spontaneity, Ms. Davie mixes Abstract Expressionism, Op and Pop into pictures of ravishing visual plenitude (Johnson).

BILL FEENEY, "Out West/Back East," Cornell DeWitt Gallery, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 695-6845 (through Dec. 21). Mr. Feeney grew up in Laramie, Wyo., which explains his Neo-Pop multimedia evocation of an Old West saloon, complete with swinging door, a bar and a broken mirror in remembrance of an angry, gun-wielding patron. Gunslingers and a bronco rider outlined in neon add illumination, while a lovely wooden model of a fire escape in a gallery alcove nods to the artist's current home in Brooklyn (Johnson).

FORCEFIELD, Daniel Reich, 308 West 21st Street, (917) 408-9097 (through Dec. 21). Forcefield, an artist collective based in Providence, R.I., produces sculptures, films, posters, costumed performances and music. The members have exotic names like Patootie Lobe, Meerk Puffy, Gorgon Radeo and Le Geef. They made quite an impression in the last Whitney Biennial with a roomful of sculptures that suggested a cross between stocking puppets, Yoruba gelede dancers and intergalactic couture models. Even in Reich's tiny studio-apartment space their distinctive aesthetic comes across, and however it's defined it is part of a bigger collective something out there that is more than welcome in a cautious time for American art (Cotter).

THOMAS HIRSCHORN, Barbara Gladstone, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300 (through Dec. 21). To imagine Mr. Hirschhorn, the 45-year-old Swiss-born installationist, think of him as Joseph Beuys with a sense of humor and without the egomania. This show is a tour de force of wood, cardboard and duct tape. The gallery is transformed into a cave. There are books everywhere, with posters of Tupac Shakur and mannequins wrapped in aluminum foil. The results look like a shantytown Lascaux/terrorist hideaway/teenager's room. The spirit is lightly anarchic (politics are the subtext) and open-armed. At a time when so much new art is so meticulously packaged and commercial, the cheerful messiness is almost a political statement in itself (Kimmelman).

JERALD IEANS, Lucas Schoormans, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3159 (through Dec. 28). This young, self-taught painter produces economical, well composed arrangements of biomorphic forms on medium-large canvases. With their overlapping, amoeboid shapes in shades of gray or muted pastels, finely combed textures and sharp edges, Mr. Ieans's paintings have great decorative appeal. Slyly sophisticated updates of Miro-style Surrealism, they are formally restrained yet funky (Johnson).

JOHN ISAACS, "Dumb Planets Are Round Too," Feigen Contemporary, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 929-0500 (through Dec. 21). Among many different sorts of photographs, paintings, videos and an installation, one amazing sculpture stands out: a life-size, morbidly obese man made with the verisimilitude of a wax-works horror. Spotlighted in a darkened empty room and elevated on a low pedestal, he is like a force-fed Frankenstein's monster, a bald-headed mountain of swelling and sagging flab and horrendously diseased skin. It is meant to be a Dorian Gray-style portrait of the artist as a symbol of Western overconsumption (Johnson).

FRANK LOBDELL, Charles Cowles Gallery, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through Dec. 21). This show of work from 1948 to 1972 by the West Coast Abstract Expressionist Frank Lobdell is his first in New York in some years, although the artist himself, now 81, has not lacked exposure in his own Bay Area haunts and elsewhere. His early mentors were Clyfford Still and Mark Rothko, so it's not surprising that color is his passion, strong hues urgently laid on in impasto textures or thin glazes and often tempered by vibrant blacks. An edge of tension that's almost palpable runs through the work. It's refreshing to see it again (Glueck).

BRIAN MAGUIRE, "The Bayview Project," White Box, 525 West 26th Street, (212) 714-2347 (through Jan. 4). This exhibition is billed as a collaboration between Mr. Maguire, an Irish painter and conceptualist, and 13 unidentified women incarcerated at the Bayview Correctional Facility in Chelsea. It includes paintings made by the women in workshops directed by Mr. Maguire, expressionistic portraits of individual women by him and an outdoor billboard publicizing the project with four giant reproductions of Mr. Maguire's paintings. One can imagine a fierce debate arising around questions of identity, art therapy and exploitation (Johnson).

* BRUCE NAUMAN, Van de Wegh Fine Art, 521 West 23rd Street, (212) 929-6633 (through Dec. 14). This three-decade survey administers a substantial dose of Bruce Nauman's cerebrally punishing visual poetry. Neon signs feature flat-footed wordplay; one, for example, blinks "war" one way and "raw" the other. Most repellent are sculptures made from the animal forms used by taxidermists: a mobile has dangling cast-aluminum dogs with legs cut off and reattached in reverse (Johnson).

GEORGE SUGARMAN, "Yellow to White to Blue to Black," Gary Tatinstian, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 633-0110 (through Dec. 21). One of the most interesting sculptors of the 1960's, Sugarman would organize eccentrically shaped, brightly painted objects into sprawling groups, playfully blending Cubism, Matissean color and Post-Minimalism installation. Along with collages from the 50's and 60's, this show features a three-part sculpture from 1967. Each colored, laminated wood piece is a paradoxical mix of complexity and simplicity, elegance and awkwardness; they go together like a jazz trio (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

ENID BAXTER BLADER, "Letter From the Girl, Mailed at the Gas Station," Location One, 26 Greene Street, (212) 334-3347 (through Dec. 28). Cerebral film buffs might find in Ms. Blader's 18-minute video projection all kinds of inside references and jokes about film noir, B movies and other sorts of low-end cinematic Pop. A puzzling montage of scenes set in a rural wasteland features a woman in a trench coat on the run, a mysteriously menacing 1980's-style bar girl and an overweight bleached blonde looking for someone who remains unspecified. Instead of plot, there's a curious blend of suspense and tedium (Johnson).

"FRIDA'S WORLD," Cavin-Morris, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-3768 (through Jan. 4). If Frida Kahlo was as tempestuous as the new biographical movie has it, you would never know it from this selection of vintage portraits by various photographers, in which she invariably radiates a regal, mysteriously contained dignity. Her husband, Diego Rivera, appears, too, but is no competition for the uni-browed one's photogenic magnetism (Johnson).

* ALEX HAY, "Work From the 60's," Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154 (through Dec. 21). In the 1960's, Mr. Hay produced paintings and sculptures that were featured in important Pop Art exhibitions. Each of the enchanting works here is a greatly enlarged representation of an ordinary object made with dry verisimilitude: a grainy, printed cash register receipt fills a canvas more than seven feet tall; a three-dimensional lunch-size paper bag stands five feet tall, its wrinkles, tears and saw-tooth edges reproduced with loving exactitude (Johnson).

* CHRIS JOHANSON, "Now Is Now," Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street, (212) 343-7300 (through Dec. 21). Mr. Johanson's funny and touching faux-naive painting, drawing and sculpture seem the products of an inspired simpleton's holistic vision. An installation in which a ship goes round and round, driven by a pivot arm balanced by a cartoon moneybag, represents the futility of materialism; smaller works spoof New Age therapy culture, like a picture of people dancing in silly cat suits, one exclaiming, "This is an excellent workshop!" Under the satiric surface, there's a genuine religious yearning (Johnson).

PAUL NOBLE AND GIOVANNI BATTISTA PIRANESI, Susan Inglett, 100 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0573 (through Dec. 14). Among the most impressive works in the Museum of Modern Art's "Drawing Now" exhibition are Mr. Noble's huge architectural fantasies. His two etchings on view here, though ordinary in scale, are similarly absorbing in their detail and narrative lunacy. They are well matched by four views of ancient ruins by Piranesi, the great 18th-century printmaker and architectural visionary (Johnson).

"PHOTOGRAPHY (AS COMMENTARY)," Kent, 67 Prince Street, (212) 966-4500, (through Jan. 25). Hans Haacke's pairing of a Walker Evans photograph of an impoverished farm family and a photo-op picture of the elder George Bush in a farmer's costume with his wife, Barbara, on the porch of a hurricane-wrecked house still resonates in the era of the younger George Bush. Dennis Adams's grid of Patty Hearst images and darkly comical studio pictures of Hispanic folks in alpine fantasy-scapes by Leandro Erlich and Judi Werthein also stand out in this smart 10-artist show of photography put to political purpose (Johnson).

"ROSIE LEE TOMPKINS: AFRICAN-AMERICAN QUILTMAKER," Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through Dec. 28). Ms. Tompkins's ravishing quilts connect to several traditions, including African bark cloth paintings, American textiles and, not least of all, modernist painting. But look, don't think. These pictorial powerhouses are like multifaceted jewels spread flat before the eye yet turning in the light, their sparkling shards of color and mutating geometries full of mystery and life (Smith).

"ANDY WARHOL: MODEL," Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, (212) 226-3232 (through Dec. 21). If you are fascinated by the famously enigmatic Warhol persona, this barrage of portraits could cure you. The show features more than 300 images of the artist by the photographer Christopher Makos. Most interesting is a huge series of formal portraits of Warhol in women's makeup and various wigs. Contact sheets show him posing as a fashion model. Video clips are also on view, including his cameo appearance on "The Love Boat" (Johnson).

Other Galleries

"GLOBAL PRIORITY," Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning, 161-04 Jamaica Avenue, Jamaica, Queens, (718) 658-7400 (through Jan. 11). The curators Heng-Gil Han and Gordon Knox invited 30 artists from around the world to deliver responses to globalization via generic mailers marked "global priority." On view are works by well-known artists like Xu Bing, Mark Dion and William Kentridge, but some of the most memorable efforts are by less familiar artists. Ayelet Zohar's video tour of a fence encircling an Israeli settlement is a canny wedding of Minimalism and political provocation (Johnson).

GUILLERMO KUITCA, Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337 (through Dec. 14). Mr. Kuitca's ambitions have turned Wagnerian. His latest show includes "The Ring," a big multipart painting inspired by Wagner's opera cycle, the backgrounds painted in different styles, meant to track an arc from Cubism to the digital age. Mr. Kuitca's work is cool, airless, philosophical and oblique. When it isn't arch and dry, it can be hypnotic. There are also paintings of airport luggage-conveyor belts, apartment-floor plans and peep show booths, akin to the Wagner panels and similarly melancholic. But the most memorable works are small ones on paper: seating plans for theaters that seem to melt, explode, drip and bend (Kimmelman).

Last Chance

"AGAINST THE MODERN: DAGNAN-BOUVERET AND THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE ACADEMIC TRADITION," National Academy of Design Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880 (through tomorrow). The academically trained French painter Pascal-Adolphe-Jean Dagnan-Bouveret was internationally celebrated in the last two decades of the 19th century. He secretly used photography to achieve a vivid realism that was most convincingly realized in a series of paintings devoted to religious customs of peasant folk in Brittany. After 1900 he made pseudo-Renaissance Christian pictures, and when he died in 1929, few remembered him. In the catalog essay the show's curator, Gabriel P. Weisberg, makes a fascinating story out of this career, shedding much light on the development of early Modernism. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission $8; $4.50 for students and 65+ (Johnson).

* "THE AGES OF MANKIND: TIME TO HOPE," Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 932-7347 (through today; 9:30 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m.). All but unheralded, this show seems to have dropped into New York like an unbidden gift, and what a gift: 100 superb examples of Spanish religious art, which is some of the most rapturous and wrenching religious art ever made, seen in a perfect setting. The works include Romanesque madonnas, Gothic crucifixions, paintings of saints by El Greco and Goya, and a handwritten letter by St. Teresa of Avila, all from churches, monasteries and museums in the Spanish provinces of Castile and Leon. The images, among them life-size polychrome sculptures, are sexy, gruesome and above all theatrical, projecting big, primary emotions. The effect is gloriously intense (Cotter).

* "ART OF THE SAMURAI," Scholten Japanese Art, 63 East 66th Street, (212) 585-0474 (through today). Militaristic samurai culture produced some of the wildest looking armor ever made. You'll get a full sense of its extraterrestrial oddity and delicacy in this show, where complete suits of armor are supplemented by displays of helmets, swords and woodblock prints. It's a dynamite show (Cotter).

* "BETWEEN WORD AND IMAGE: MODERN IRANIAN VISUAL CULTURE," Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780 (through tomorrow). This no-frills exhibition is about the dynamics of cultural borrowing, the inseparability of art and politics and the interplay of modernism and Islamicism. It begins with painting and sculptures from the 1960's in which Western styles and Iranian themes merge. It continues with riveting photographs documenting the arrival of the Iranian Revolution in 1979. And it ends with art that the revolution produced: political posters inspired by both the Western counterculture and militant Islamic ideology. Depending on the amount of reflective synthesis you're willing to do, the results can seem richly layered, or disjointed and undercooked. But the materials and the ideas on display are fascinating (Cotter).

"THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF ARTHUR WESLEY DOW," Hirschl & Adler, 21 East 70th Street, (212) 535-8810 (through tomorrow). A body of Dow's photographs, long buried in family holdings, reveals the relationship of his camera work to his paintings and prints. Early on, he produced eloquently simple impressions of his New England environment. As he developed technical and aesthetic savvy, he took his camera to California, India and Japan, producing pictures that stressed form and abstraction. In revealing his strengths as a photographer, this show throws new light on Dow's overall work (Glueck).

GRAPHIC: Photos: An African headdress from "Genesis," at the Metropolitan. (Art Institute of Chicago); A partial installation view of Thomas Hirschorn's transformation of the Barbara Gladstone Gallery in Chelsea into a messily cheerful cave. (Barbara Gladstone Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



171 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Europe's Central Bank Cuts Rate by Half a Point
Yielding to evidence of an economic malaise in Europe, the European Central Bank voted to cut interest rates by half a percentage point.
 The central bank, which has historically worried more about taming inflation than stimulating growth, acknowledged that runaway prices posed a lesser danger than the bleak economic mood. The bank's president, Wim Duisenberg, above, said growth in Europe would probably be subdued for months because of fears about a war in Iraq and concerns about the fragile American economy. World Business, Section W. 

Retail Sales Fall in November
Sales in November for major retailers were worse than many had expected after a strong showing the day after Thanksgiving. In the lonely winner's circle, The Gap, up a total of 9 percent, was the major surprise, along with Neiman Marcus, which rose 5.8 percent. C9.

Outbreaks on Ships Worry Officials
Outbreaks of common but highly contagious infections on cruise ships are creating a mystery for health officials and are rattling passengers and cruise company executives. A1.

Chief Executive Quits Auction House
Phillips, the troubled No. 3 auction house, announced that Louise T. Blouin MacBain, its chief executive, was stepping down. C13.

Markets Continue Their Slide
The Dow dropped 114.57 points, to close at 8,623.28. The Nasdaq fell 19.60 points, to 1,410.75. The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 11.03 points, to 906.55. C9.

Microsoft's Argument Challenged
The judge hearing Sun Microsystems antitrust case against Microsoft challenged Microsoft's argument that it should not be forced to include Sun's Java program in Windows. C4.

More Books and More Pressure
More books than ever are being published these days, an estimated 114,487 in 2001 compared with 39,000 in 1975, and more people are buying, a survey showed. But more books make it harder to get noticed, and many publishers are facing financial pressures. C2.

More Disclosures by Walt Disney
One day after Walt Disney said it was cooperating with an inquiry by regulators into the timing of the disclosure of its board members' affiliations, the company disclosed more financial relationships between some directors and companies that do businesss with Disney. The disclosures come as Disney has tried to revamp its board, which has been criticized for not being independent enough. C2.

Intel Increases Sales Forecast
Intel increased its fourth-quarter sales forecast as demand for processors rises. Sales will be $6.8 billion to $7 billion, Intel said. C4.

AOL's Problems Obscure Industry
When America Online warned of larger-than-expected declines in advertising revenue, it seemed to reinforce the pessimism lingering over the health of the online marketplace. But AOL's travails obscure more promising trends in online advertising. Advertising. C2.

French Aid Plan Is Snubbed
European telecommunications ministers forced France to make a rare and humiliating policy reversal when they agreed to oppose government aid for the telecommunications sector. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,623.28 down 114.57Nasdaq composite -- 1,410.75 down 19.6010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.13% down 0.02The euro -- $1.0009 up 0.0006The dollar -- 124.94 yen up 0.29 Graph: "TODAY"UnemploymentNovember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: 5.8% Graph shows the percentage change in unemployment from May 2002-Oct. 2002. Consumer BorrowingOctober figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$7.0 billion Graph shows the amount of consumer borrowing from April 2002-Sept. 2002. Graph shows Walt Disney's share price since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRUISES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (84%); INTEREST RATES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); RETAILERS (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); PUBLISHING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (62%); THANKSGIVING (54%); JUDGES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); INTEL CORP (51%); AOL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



172 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: AIRLINE SHOCK WAVES: THE OVERVIEW; 
UAL and Its Backers Scramble for Support and Financing

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
United Airlines moved today to firm up financing in advance of a bankruptcy filing, even as it continued talks with its unions and suppliers to secure concessions that would help stem its mounting losses.
 United's supporters in Washington renewed their own scramble to win aid, with some lawmakers suggesting that Congress should overturn the decision of a federal panel that voted Wednesday to deny the airline $1.8 billion in loan guarantees. 
 Through a spokesman, President Bush said today that he "respects" the panel's decision. But he held back from enthusiastically endorsing the ruling, leaving open the possibility that the panel's three voting members could -- behind closed doors -- more favorably review any revised business plan that United submits, whether the airline is in or out of bankruptcy court.
United, the world's second-largest airline, was in the final stages today of negotiating commitments from four lenders -- Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase, Bank One and the financing arm of General Electric -- for $1.5 billion in financing it would need to keep operating in bankruptcy protection, people briefed on the talks said. 
United is expected to file for bankruptcy protection as soon as it confirms that financing, which these people said should occur before Monday.
But financial experts and bankruptcy lawyers said that United could take years to emerge from bankruptcy court.
Its reorganization would be complicated by whatever role a judge grants to employees, who own 55 percent of the airline, experts said, adding that United could come out of bankruptcy much smaller than today's globe-straddling carrier, which operates about 1,800 flights daily.
To have any hopes of operating smoothly in bankruptcy -- and to avoid selling airport rights or other assets at an early stage -- United may need even more than $1.5 billion in financing, analysts said, and certainly will require deep concessions from its unions.
Trying to strengthen its application for the loan guarantees, United virtually secured $4.5 billion in pay and other concessions from its pilots, flight attendants and other workers. But those agreements were contingent on the airline's winning the backing of all its unions, and with the mechanics having held out in a vote last Wednesday, the airline now must negotiate new commitments from all its labor groups.
Glenn F. Tilton, United's chief executive, met with representatives of the pilots' union this morning. Union leaders spent much of the day trying to devise a strategy that would allow the airline to avoid filing for bankruptcy protection. That effort included plans for lobbying Congress and the White House.
"We are engaged in conversations with the union coalition and with other stakeholders to determine the next steps," said Rich Nelson, a United spokesman.
But union leaders, noting that the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board did not specifically demand further union concessions as the price of reconsidering aid for United, expressed reluctance to offer more without the assurance that any deal would keep the airline out of bankruptcy court.
Angry, dejected workers braced themselves for stringent cost-cutting measures, while travelers' reactions ranged from oblivious to confused about the prospect of a bankruptcy filing by United.
If the company demands more concessions, "I'm not going to stay at United Airlines," said Aidan P. McCormack, 37, a shop inspector in San Francisco. "I want to be paid what I'm worth. I'm a survivor. We'll survive one way or another. People came here thinking this was a great job, and this was a great job, but things have changed through the years."
At LaGuardia Airport, Natalie Peters, a Brooklyn woman bound for Argentina, said she was very concerned about the airline's future: "I'm going to Buenos Aires; who knows whether I'll ever get back. You don't go on a flight half-heartedly, and especially an international flight, no less. I most definitely would have chosen a different carrier."
Industry experts and United's rivals predicted that a bankruptcy filing would generally help the airline business. If United is forced to cut back flights, that would reduce the industry's capacity and give carriers more leeway to raise prices. United, which has some of the highest labor costs in the industry, presumably would slash those expenses, so other airlines might ask their unions for deep concessions, too.
United and its rivals are all victims of the economic excesses of the late 1990's. Back then, when they were flush, airlines added large numbers of flights and signed off on generous union contracts, financed by business travelers willing to buy high-price tickets with dot-com cash.
All that, of course, crashed in the last two years, and now the airlines -- with the exception of low-fare, low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines -- are in a cycle in which their revenues cannot keep up with costs. United has less cash and higher costs than some of its competitors, nudging it toward the cliff first.
"United will be a wake-up call to people at American and Delta and Northwest and Continental, who to some extent all suffer from the same problems," said Michael E. Levine, a former airline executive who is now a professor at Yale Law School. 
"I think most of them know they have to tackle costs," he said. "And they felt they couldn't approach anyone until now. Without the real threat of bankruptcy, you can't do a work-out outside of bankruptcy."
United's deepening problems were reflected today in the stock of its parent company, UAL. The New York Stock Exchange halted trading in UAL shares for several hours. The stock eventually lost $2.12, to close at $1, leaving UAL down 93 percent for the year. The exchange said it was reviewing whether to delist the company, and Dow Jones dropped UAL from its transportation index. 
UAL bonds fell sharply, too, as Standard & Poor's lowered the company's credit rating to D, reflecting what it described as "the disappearance of any realistic possibility" that the company could cure its default on about $920 million of debt.
United, which has about $1 billion in cash but is losing as much as $8 million a day, began trying to arrange the financing it would need for a bankruptcy filing about two to three weeks ago, said one person briefed on the talks. 
The company intensified those efforts 10 days ago, and is now completing the details, like how much of the loans, known as debtor-in-possession financing, it will get at various times. Such arrangements are typical when a big company like United seeks bankruptcy protection, but the $1.5 billion being discussed is an enormous credit line.
There is a chance that General Electric, one of the lenders in talks with United, would be replaced, because it is asking for very "onerous" terms, said another person briefed on the negotiations. Lufthansa, the German airline that is part of the Star Alliance, a 14-airline partnership that relies heavily on United's routes and customers, could also be brought into the financing at a later stage, this person said.
If United were to run short of cash and be forced to begin liquidating valuable assets, rivals like American, Delta Air Lines and Continental would probably line up to be buyers. American is a unit of AMR. 
Gordon M. Bethune, the chief executive of Continental, said that he would love to snap up United's landing rights at Heathrow Airport in London, where United and American are the only United States airlines with operations.
Continental, he added, might also want to expand in Denver -- one of United's hubs -- to increase its foothold in the West.
People in the industry speculate that United's extensive Asian route system would be valuable to virtually every major rival except Northwest, which already has large operations in Asia.
American Airlines, the world's biggest airline, potentially has the most to gain from a shrunken United. The two go head-to-head in Chicago, one of the country's largest hubs. American only surpassed United in size by acquiring Trans World Airlines last year.
"Filing Chapter 11 doesn't have the traumatic effect in this industry that it once did," said Tim Doke, a spokesman for American. "But there's no question that some traveler uneasiness, if United were to file for bankruptcy, would potentially create some share-shift to its competitors, and we'd be in a position to absorb that."
Union officials continued to hold out hope for a rescue from Washington, where they were lobbying lawmakers today in hopes that Congress would overturn the air board's rejection. 
But many lawmakers -- even the most ardent supporters of United -- said that there was little they could do. Senator Richard Durbin, a Democrat from the airline's home state of Illinois, said that "bankruptcy is practically inevitable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Concern about United Airlines was apparent among workers at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago yesterday. The airline is expected to file for bankruptcy protection by early next week. (Associated Press)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); JUDGES (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; CREDIT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (59%) AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD; UNITED AIRLINES; UAL CORP; CITIGROUP INC; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO; BANK ONE; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GLENN TILTON (59%) WONG, EDWARD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



173 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
As Ramadan Draws to a Close, Bush Praises Muslims for 'Spirit of Tolerance'

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Appearing at a Muslim center here, President Bush warmly praised Muslims today for a "spirit of tolerance," distancing himself from an increasingly assertive campaign by some American conservatives to cast Islam as hostile to the United States and a breeding ground for terrorism.
 As he has on a regular basis since just after the Sept. 11 attacks last year, Mr. Bush stressed that Islam has a rich and peaceful history and that many Muslims live in the United States and make contributions throughout society. 
 Speaking at the Islamic Center of Washington in celebration of Id al-Fitr, the culmination of the holy month of Ramadan, the president kept up what aides described as an effort to minimize any anti-Muslim backlash in the United States and avoid having his administration's war against terrorism and confrontation with Iraq seen as a clash of beliefs or civilizations.
Mr. Bush said Id al-Fitr "is a reminder that Islam brings hope and comfort to more than a billion people worldwide" and that the religion "affirms God's justice and insists on man's moral responsibility."
In a statement issued later by the White House, Mr. Bush cited "acts of kindness and generosity" by Muslims during Ramadan to people in need as inspiration for building a "culture of service" among people of all faiths in the United States.
Mr. Bush appeared at the same Islamic center six days after the Sept. 11 attacks, at a time when some Muslims in the United States were being harassed, and said: "Moms who wear cover must not be intimidated in America. That's not the America I know."
Before his appearance today, the political backdrop was set when religious conservatives and some foreign policy analysts suggested that Islam is inherently militaristic. Aides said Mr. Bush was well aware of those suggestions and wanted to make clear that he disagreed.
On the ABC News program "This Week" on Sunday, the Rev. Pat Robertson, a prominent conservative Christian leader, said that Islam was "violent at its core" and that Mr. Bush was saying otherwise for political reasons. "The president does not want to be fighting all of Islam and he didn't want to set this thing up as a holy war and he was very wise," Mr. Robertson said. Still, he said, Mr. Bush's decision not to speak negatively about Islam has "caused a great deal of consternation, especially among his base, who know better."
Mr. Bush appeared at the Islamic Center after meeting earlier in the day with the leaders of two African nations, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia and President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya. 
White House officials and diplomats from the two countries said that with Mr. Bush planning to visit Africa next month, the leaders discussed the AIDS epidemic on the continent, economic development and regional conflicts. They also discussed concerns about terrorism in Africa in light of the two attacks in Mombasa, Kenya, last week. 
In Mombasa today, investigators detained five men for questioning after witnesses said the five might have been in a white vehicle near the site of one of the incidents, an abortive missile attack on an Israeli airliner.
The vehicle was spotted near the airport on two consecutive days before the incident and again on the morning it occurred, said William Langat, a deputy police commissioner. Witnesses say that after the attack, the car followed a white sport utility vehicle that is believed to have been used by the terrorists.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya and Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); RAMADAN (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); AIDS & HIV (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%) ISLAM; RAMADAN; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ISLAMIC CENTER OF WASHINGTON 

PERSON: MELES ZENAWI (89%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ETHIOPIA (92%); KENYA (92%); AFRICA (92%); IRAQ (79%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



174 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: BAGHDAD; 
Iraq Leader Tells Associates to Be Patient As U.S. Puts Pressure on U.N. Inspectors

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
President Saddam Hussein broke his silence today on the new United Nations weapons inspections, urging "patience" on his associates in the Iraqi leadership in the face of American pressures. 
 Referring to the threat of an American military attack if the inspections founder, he said Iraq should let the inspectors do their work so as to "keep our people out of harm's way." 
 Mr. Hussein told a meeting of about 30 top political and military leaders that the point might come when Iraq would show its "anger" at having to accept the inspections, which began last week and quickly extended to about 20 top-secret nuclear, biological and chemical warfare research installations, as well as one of Mr. Hussein's many palaces. The inspections were suspended today for two days for the Muslim holiday of Id al-Fitr, which follows the fasting month of Ramadan. 
For now, Mr. Hussein said, Iraq should show "our capacity for bearing."
"Your patience, brothers and comrades, and that of the Iraqi people, is noteworthy; but your anger and revolt are also great when the situation calls for it," the Iraqi leader said, in a English translation provided by the government. "However, for every situation there is an answer, for every phase there is a certain behavior, and for every action there is a reaction."
Mr. Hussein spoke two days before the deadline Iraq has set itself, on Saturday in Baghdad, for handing over a complete and final declaration of any secret weapons programs that have continued in defiance of more than a decade of United Nations bans. The handover, a day ahead of the United Nations cutoff for the declaration, will take place under the threat of war with the United States if Iraq again seeks to deny any hidden projects or weapons.
Mr. Hussein made no reference to the declaration. Nor did he touch more than glancingly on the crunch issue -- whether Iraq will admit to having some banned weapons programs, as Mr. Bush and Britain's prime minister, Tony Blair, have claimed insistently, or deny the existence of any clandestine weapons work, as other Iraqi leaders have maintained. On that issue, many believe, hangs the issue of war and peace. 
In the weeks before the vote last month in which the United Nations Security Council approved the tough new inspections, many of Iraq's top leaders, though not Mr. Hussein, had argued for rejecting new inspections as an indignity forced on Iraq by President Bush. Since the inspections began nine days ago, new versions of that argument have resurfaced, propelled by fury at the no-notice search of Mr. Hussein's Al-Sajoud palace in Baghdad on Tuesday. 
After the palace inspection, tensions had been rising in Baghdad as other top Iraqi leaders spoke out against the weapons inspections, and said that the United States appeared intent on using the inspections as a pretext for an attack on Iraq. Taha Yassin Ramadan, No. 3 in the Baghdad hierarchy, said on Wednesday night that if American leaders continued to second-guess the weapons inspectors and imply that they were likely to fail in their task of uncovering hidden weapons programs, "by the American logic, war is unavoidable." 
Since the government says almost nothing on any issue without checking first with Mr. Hussein, the outbursts that followed the palace intrusion almost certainly reflected Mr. Hussein's personal sense of affront. But today, meeting with the other leaders at another palace to celebrate the Id al-Fitr holiday, the 65-year-old leader used a rambling 23-minute speech to put across one central message: that Iraq's hawks should stay calm. 
The "basis" of Iraq's thinking in accepting the inspections, Mr. Hussein said, was to "keep our people out of harm's way amid an international situation in which some people might claim that we didn't give the inspectors the proper chance to disprove the American allegations that Iraq produced weapons of mass destruction during the period of the inspectors' absence." 
"For that reason, we shall provide them with such a chance, after which, if the weaklings remain weak and the cowardly remain cowards, then we shall take the stand that befits our people, principles and mission," Mr. Hussein said. To this, he added what appeared to be an encouragement to the military commanders seated along with other leaders in an ornate palace chamber, or possibly a broader salute to the people of Iraq. "Victory will be yours always, God willing," he said. 
Frequent references to weakness in the speech suggested that the real struggle in accepting the inspectors might not have been within the Iraqi leadership, which has been under Mr. Hussein's iron grip since the mid-1970's, but within Mr. Hussein himself. The Iraqi leader projects himself as a man who bows to nobody, but now, as he did in withdrawing his troops helter-skelter from Kuwait in 1991, he has had to knuckle under, this time to threats of an American-led military invasion that would aim at toppling Mr. Hussein. 
The speech, delivered by Mr. Hussein without a text as he sat in a large thronelike chair, had the earmarks of an exercise in public musing, as if Mr. Hussein was talking himself through all the computations he has wrestled with since President Bush began talking determinedly of military action against Iraq earlier this year. The government's transcript of the remarks, in Arabic and in English, was so diffuse and digressive in some passages it was hard to follow, as many of Mr. Hussein's speeches in recent months have been. 
Mostly, it was a mixture of what Americans might call barnyard philosophy, like Mr. Hussein's observation, in arguing for a modulated response to American threats, that "Iraqis don't like the colors falling between black and white, except in clothes, and in certain aspects of nature." Many passages were steeped in references to God, reflecting the Islamic character Mr. Hussein, once an assertive secularist, has projected since losing the Persian Gulf war. "Iraq doesn't need any party to defend it, because it relies on God Almighty," he said.
Speaking in a quiet monotone, in a relaxed cadence that suggested a genial father figure, Mr. Hussein looked frequently to his left and right as he spoke, to sofas occupied by a group of aging men who form the ruling Revolutionary Command Council. On television, it looked almost as if he was reassuring them that he had not lost his will. "We cast our lot with good people, and refuse to line up alongside the weaklings by making concessions to the point where we would be described as being weak, God forbid," he said. 
The film showed Mr. Hussein wearing an immaculately tailored double-breasted suit and a blue-gray striped tie -- the only man in the room not wearing the olive-green military uniform and beret that are common to both military leaders and to top leaders of the ruling Arab Baath Socialist Party. 
The Iraqi leader reached often into the grab bag of bitter invective he has used against the United States in the past. Without mentioning President Bush, he spoke of "the evil aggression" that had no precedent, not even "Genghis Khan," whose Mongol troops laid waste to Baghdad nine centuries ago; of the "debased, criminal hegemony that is the Zionist-American alliance"; and of the "unjust, arrogant, debased American tyranny" that, he said, had imposed 12 years of unjust economic sanctions and bombing on Iraq since the 1991 Persian Gulf war. 
With an eye to militant opinion across the Arab world, to whom he has frequently presented himself as a historic figure destined to lead Arab armies to the defeat of Israel, Mr. Hussein also invoked the Palestinian suicide bombers who have caused devastation with their attacks on Israeli targets -- to each of whose families Mr. Hussein has pledged a cash payment of $25,000. "Lest we miss one very important thing, it is imperative that we hail the heroic people of Palestine, hailing in particular the jihadist spirit of those willing to sacrifice their lives to defend the nation, and mankind, too." 
But despite this, Mr. Hussein said, Iraq should follow what he described as the example set by their Arab ancestors from ancient history, going back to the construction of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon 2,500 years ago, and to the construction of great waterways across the plains of Mesopotamia even before that: They should stay patient in the face of great challenges, in the knowledge that there time would come -- or, as Mr. Hussein put it an another point in his speech, "that the rock that they throw at you shall fall on their heads, God willing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq greeted members of the ruling Baath Party leadership yesterday in Baghdad. Mr. Hussein urged the Iraqi people to support weapons inspections by the United Nations. (Iraqi TV via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); INSPECTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); RAMADAN (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (61%); APPROVALS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); TONY BLAIR (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002 



175 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Global Trade Negotiations Are Making Little Progress

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
The new round of global trade negotiations, begun with great fanfare at Doha, Qatar, early this year, has bogged down, and trade diplomats are beginning to despair of making enough progress to justify holding an important interim conference scheduled for Cancun, Mexico, next year. The deadline of January 2005 for completing the whole round of talks is also in danger of slipping.
 The point of the Cancun meeting is to avoid repeating the debacle of the World Trade Organization's Seattle conference in 1999, when diplomats inside the meeting wrangled fruitlessly over irreconcilable positions and agendas while antiglobalization demonstrators swarmed the streets outside. This time, many of the organization's 144 member nations want the hard negotiating to be done ahead of time and the conference to be a harmonious ratification of the progress that has been made. 
 But over a three-day stock-taking this week at the group's headquarters in Geneva, trade envoys found precious little progress, only deep divisions and stalled talks.
Chief among the issues in deadlock is one that was not even on the official agenda for the Doha round: access to patented medicines for poor countries. The issue has eclipsed even agricultural trade, the one that trade experts expected to be the most intractable in the talks. 
Most trade matters are obscure and technical, but they can have important connections to highly charged emotional issues. The trade organization has found itself squirming uncomfortably in the spotlight when the effects of trade treaties on environmental safeguards or the treatment of workers have been spotlighted. Now, the question of whether developing countries have the right to override foreign patent protections for essential medicines has become such an issue, in part because it has been cast in moral terms. 
"The public has a position on this issue: poor people need those drugs," said Sergio Marchi, Canada's chief trade negotiator in Geneva. "The need is to deliver affordable drugs in the most efficient way to the poorest of the poor. If we don't resolve this, the W.T.O. will be judged very harshly."
At the Doha meeting, the organization's members pledged to resolve the issue by Dec. 31. But the negotiations have floundered in recent weeks.
Trade negotiators say that at a meeting in Sydney, Australia, before the American midterm elections, a compromise seemed to be near. But "there has been some hardening of positions" since then, the European Union's trade envoy, Carlos Trojan, said this week in a telephone interview from Geneva.
"U.S. officials seem to have the whole American pharmaceutical industry on their back," he said. The drug companies say that allowing international trade in unlicensed copies of their drugs made in India, Brazil or other developing countries would be devastating to the world patent system, chill research on new drugs and flood the world with medicines of dubious quality. But poor countries without a drug industry of their own say that banning such trade denies them badly needed medicines that they cannot afford to buy at developed-world prices.
The most the United States has so far offered in talks on the issue is a narrow exemption for drugs that treat three diseases: AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
"Some countries want this to apply not just to epidemics, but to any health problem, and that makes the pharmaceutical industry mad," said a United States trade official involved in the negotiations who did not want his name used. That includes some secondary patents -- patents requested after a drug's use is better known -- for medicines like Viagra, which are not needed for a health crisis, he said.
Poorer countries want drugs for many more diseases added to the list.
"You can read the Doha declaration," said Brazil's trade envoy, Luis Felipe de Seixas Correa, in Geneva. "It is very clear that it included those three diseases but, at the same time, it did not exclude other diseases. We insist that it be fulfilled in its entirety."
The fight over pharmaceuticals is symptomatic of the uneasy standoff between developing countries, which make up the bulk of the trade organization's membership, and the giant economies of the United States and the European Union. Relations have been strained for much of the organization's seven-year existence, because the developing countries say they believe that they were short-changed in the last global round of talks, which ended in 1994.
The developing countries want more time to meet commitments they made in that round, including cracking down on copyright and patent infringement. But little or no progress has been made on these implementation issues, as they are known.
The agricultural talks, too, are stuck, mainly over reluctance in Europe and the United States to reduce subsidies and lift trade barriers. The European Union has yet to submit its proposals on the question, a failure that some diplomats say makes it unlikely that the organization will be able to agree on a framework for talks on the issue by the March 2003 deadline. 
Some experts think Europe is stalling to keep its political options open. "There is concern that there will be no written plan," said Sophia Murphy, trade policy director for the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy, which is based in Minneapolis. Still, Mr. Trojan promised a plan "soon."
For its part, the United States, which irritated many trade partners last year with a huge new farm-subsidy bill and a protective tariff on steel imports, has been making a number of proposals, including cutting tariffs on farm goods in half and eliminating export subsidies. 
Late last month, the Bush administration also proposed gradual elimination of tariffs on all manufactured goods, including two of the most protected categories, shoes and textiles, but the European Union dismissed it as unrealistic. 
Brinkmanship is common in trade talks, with logjams building up for months that are only broken by last-minute concessions and deals. But the lesson many members drew from Seattle is the danger of leaving too many messes to be tidied up at the 11th hour.
"I saw the beach the day before the talks in Doha," Mr. Trojan said. But with all the work left to do before the Cancun meeting, he said, "we'll be locked up for at least 10 days, or longer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators pulled down a fence surrounding the site of a World Trade Organization meeting last month in Sydney, Australia. The organization is stalled over access to patented drugs by poorer countries. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (93%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); PATENTS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); RIOTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); AGRICULTURE (51%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (50%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) SYDNEY (AUSTRALIA)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



176 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: U.S.'s Powerful Weapon in Iran: TV 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON with NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
The letter, written in Farsi, was as tantalizingly mysterious as the videotape it was wrapped around. "Excuse the unprofessional quality of the video," wrote the sender, a young Iranian. "We didn't want to attract authorities by using a production crew."
 On the tape was a jolting series of interviews with frustrated Iranians complaining about their country's stalled political reforms and the repressiveness of its ruling mullahs. 
 The unsolicited video was sent not to the C.I.A. but to the young Iranian cast of "Next Chapter," a hip, new MTV-inspired television show broadcast from the Voice of America headquarters here and beamed to Iran via satellite. The sender, who had smuggled the tape out of Iran and mailed it from London, could not broadcast the hotly political material on government-controlled Iranian television, so he appealed to his Iranian peers in the United States. 
The subject was more controversial than the show's typical fare, which intersperses bites of politics and hard news with fast-cut segments on sports, movies, fashion and cars. But the show's hosts broadcast it anyway, between a piece on the winners of the third annual North American Wife Carrying Contest in Newry, Maine, and an interview with Jay Leno.
"We know that so many young people in Iran are fed up, and they just want to be heard," said Roozbeh Mazhari, 29, one of the hosts of "Next Chapter," referring to the sandwiching of the tape. "But they also want some fun."
While the United States is bracing for a possible military offensive in Iraq, behind the scenes a soft war is well under way. It is aimed at winning the hearts and minds of young people in the Middle East at a time when radical Islamists are encouraging anti-American sentiment. 
In Iran, dissatisfaction with the Islamic regime has been building for years. In recent weeks, it has led to pro-democracy protests in the streets of Tehran over the death sentence given to a reformist scholar. This sea change has created new opportunities for influencing opinion. 
"Next Chapter," which had its debut on Sept. 10, is one of several recent projects that are are putting a new spin on old-fashioned American propaganda.
Some programs are directed by the State Department, which last year hired Charlotte Beers, a former Madison Avenue advertising executive, to devise a multimillion-dollar public diplomacy campaign, complete with academic exchange programs and slick public service advertisements, to soften anti-American feelings.
In a separate venture, the Broadcasting Board of Governors, the government agency that oversees Voice of America, received $35 million this year to start a youth-oriented Middle Eastern radio network. (Voice of America's programs are run by journalists, and their content is not subject to State Department approval.) The network, called Radio Sawa ("sawa" means "together" in Arabic), sprinkles news tidbits written from an American perspective into a heavy rotation of American and Middle Eastern pop music.
Later this month the board will begin broadcasting a similarly formatted $8 million venture in Iran called Radio Farda ("farda" means "tomorrow" in Farsi).
"Next Chapter," produced by the Voice of America's Farsi service, has a comparatively small startup budget of less than $1 million. 
The new programs' youthful direction is dictated by demographics. Like many Middle Eastern countries, Iran has many people under 30, roughly 70 percent of its 66 million citizens. "These are not traditional users of U.S. government-sponsored news," said Norman J. Pattiz, chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors' Middle East committee. "We can reap terrific dividends by talking to these young people directly in a way they understand." 
Some believe that soft tactics are far wiser than military might. "America is so much more than its military and economic prowess," said Reza Ladjevardian, 36, an Iranian writer based in Houston. "The people of Iran have seen that fundamentalism doesn't work. Appealing to them with cooperation and reasoning, rather than 'axis of evil' talk, is a virtually risk-free proposition for the U.S."
The cast of "Next Chapter" agrees. This weekly program tackles topics ranging from political talk over a possible war with Iraq to street talk over "8 Mile," the rapper Eminem's hit movie, now making its way through the Middle East on pirated DVD's. The show carefully avoids direct criticism of Iran's Islamic regime; its style is subtly subversive.
A recent entertainment segment, for instance, profiled the Cuban jazz trumpeter Arturo Sandoval, who did not have a word to say about Iran or Iranians but talked movingly about fleeing a repressive regime for political and artistic freedom. The interview with Jay Leno focused on using comedy to criticize politics. 
Another segment showed Iranian students at the University of Maryland enjoying Mehregan, a traditional Persian fall festival, without mentioning directly what viewers in Iran already know: that this secular holiday's celebration is discouraged by the country's religious leaders.
A regular feature called "A Day in the Life" uses a reality television approach to showcase ordinary Iranian 20-somethings living in the United States. As the jumpy camera followed Anahita Sami, a 20-year-old student, and her friends around the campus of George Washington University, she chatted about dorm life, exams, being away from home for the first time, nothing particularly exciting. But the point is made: Yeah, she can wear those clothes, say those things and do that stuff.
"We need to get this generation ready for something new," said Ahmad Baharloo, who directs Voice of America's Farsi service and is executive producer of "Next Chapter." "We don't want to tell them what to do, but make them look and think and respond to logic." 
The show, which is simulcast on the radio and over the Internet, is too new, Voice of America officials said, to have data on the number of viewers. Early feedback suggests it is reaching only a tiny slice of its potential audience. Iranians have complained to Voice of America that they can't find the show on their satellite channels, and when they do, the signal is too weak for good reception.
Still, there is evidence of a sprouting fan base. Amateur videos, like the one from London, have arrived from Iranians in Japan and Seattle. Web hits to Voice of America's Farsi service, at voanews.com/farsi/, spiked by the hundreds in the weeks after the show's premiere.
There are also e-mail messages from eager viewers like Hadi, a Tehran teenager who wrote that he and other teenagers in his apartment building were gathering to listen to the show on the radio because they could not get it on television. "I wish we could ask President Bush to send us a digital satellite so we can see your show," Hadi wrote, adding that his friends held a candlelight vigil in observance of the first anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.
There has, however, been considerable criticism of the new youth-driven government efforts. Some say the new shows are so soft that they are condescending. And in Iran, where conservative factions of the government have recently closed down dozens of independent news publications, political strategists argue that there is greater need than ever for serious news. 
"Yes, youth may want to listen to music and watch fun TV," said Nasser Hadian, a professor of political science at Tehran University who is currently a visiting professor at Columbia. "But there is still an audience hungry for real analysis, and the United States is wasting an opportunity if they ignore that."
Mahtab Farid, who worked until recently as a political reporter on "Next Chapter" and is now part of the news team for Radio Farda, agrees that hard news is essential. But she said young people in Iran and elsewhere in the Middle East were also eager for new ways to reach across cultures.
As a child in Iran in 1979, Ms. Farid, 29, watched American news clips of the hostage crisis at the United States Embassy in Tehran. "I remember yelling at the TV," she said. "I would say: 'Those stupid journalists! They keep saying Iran has taken America hostage. Don't they know it's just a small group of bad people? Don't they know we don't all hate America?' "
She says the experience helps her understand what it must be like for Iranian youth who now feel marked by the "axis of evil" label.
"We know what's missing on each side because we have been on both sides," Ms. Farid said. "These shows give us a special tool to reach from one side to the other."
The cast of "Next Chapter" is still struggling for the right balance in content. The program has referred to the recent student protests in Iran in its brief news segment, but so far it has avoided commenting on them.
"You cannot spend every minute of the day on politics," Mr. Baharloo said. "Part of our job with the show is to give the young people a rest."
Still, some messages are getting through. On a recent Tuesday night in Tehran, four men and two women sat around a 29-inch television in the home of Pooya, a 30-year-old rug merchant, waiting to watch the show. 
The friends giggled over the cast members' Farsi, which they said sounded a bit too American and informal. And they weighed in on the movie and car reports, which they agreed were cool.
The show opened with a segment on the American Humane Society and the importance of protecting animals: a seemingly mundane topic but timely in Iran. One of the country's hard-line Muslim clerics had recently declared dogs unclean and called on security forces to stop people from walking them in public. As the group listened intently, Pooya's younger brother, Ali, patted the family dog and nodded his approval.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, on the set at "Next Chapter," the youth-oriented show broadcast to Iran by Voice of America in Washington. Mahtab Farid, at right, was about to read the Farsi text on the monitor. Above, fans watching the show in Tehran. (Above, Paul Hosefros/The New York Times; left, Kaveh Kazemi for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (75%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); YOUTH MARKET (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (70%); SMUGGLING (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: VOICE OF AMERICA (83%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) MAINE, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



177 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: A Digital Christmas 

 BODY:
In one of Dickens's earliest Christmas stories, two young children look into the boughs of a Christmas tree loaded with presents. "There was everything, and more," one child said. That was 1850, when a Christmas tree was still, as Dickens put it, a "pretty German toy." It would take a sequoia of a Christmas tree -- a forest of them, in fact -- to contain the "everything, and more" being offered to gift-givers this year. On the shopping streets and in the malls, the air is filled with a commercial frenzy that falls like snow on passing consumers. The Web sites of the largest online purveyors positively pulse with electronic abundance. Never has mankind faced a greater array of shiny metal objects with digital displays. Never has the gift certificate looked more promising. 
 The idea of Santa Claus had an almost plausible coherence back in the days when Christmas gifts still bore the unmistakable stamp of the hand-made. But even a small child glimpses that the Christmas season has now become -- where shopping is concerned, at least -- the great yearly festival of Corporate Earth. If anyone remembers the North Pole anymore, it's mainly as an offshore tax haven. Even the underlying moral dynamic of the Santa story has been overturned. If you've been a really good girl, the sky's the limit. And if you've been a really bad boy, you can just buy yourself a copy of the video game called "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City," and revel in your badness. 
 The crush of consumers in the department stores, edging their way through the first-floor perfume mists, can seem more than a little off the point of the other story that gets told this time of year. In that story, charity is a more all-embracing concept than it tends to be in the mind of a last-minute shopper hastening past the sound of a Salvation Army bell. Somehow, Christmas seems a little stranger every year. The one time of year when we should be more than consumers turns out to be the one time of year when we act most like consumers. And even if you feel the urge to make Christmas a little less material this time around, a little more spiritual, you probably also feel the urge to vote for the American economy with your shopping dollars. That is one tension this holiday never used to know. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (96%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); CHARITIES (75%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (54%); FESTIVALS (51%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; EDITORIALS; ELECTRONICS; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (66%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



178 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Governor Of California Asks Big Cuts In Spending 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis proposed $10.2 billion in cuts in state spending today to try to fill a cavernous hole in the state budget.
 The proposed reductions, if adopted by the state legislature, would affect every school district, community college and public university, deny health care to thousands of poor adults and result in broad layoffs of state workers. 
 The cuts would be felt across the board in state programs, which are already suffering from earlier spending reductions caused by a sharp drop in state tax revenues.
But the $10 billion in cuts announced by Governor Davis today are merely a down payment on deeper reductions that must be made in the budget for the fiscal year starting next July. Mr. Davis is due to present that budget in January.
The governor said that the national economic recovery predicted by many experts never materialized and that California was still feeling the effects of the collapse of the high-tech boom of the late 90's.
"Forty states and federal government are suffering shortfalls as a result," Mr. Davis said in announcing the spending cuts this afternoon in Los Angeles.
"These reductions are severe by any measure," he said. "This is an extraordinarily difficult task, but we face an extraordinary challenge. No program will be held harmless."
He said the state work force, now about 320,000 people, would be reduced by 10,000 workers in the next two years. He also said he hoped to save $470 million in state payroll costs by a combination of pay freezes, cuts and layoffs. 
The $10.2 billion includes $3.4 billion in cuts, transfers and borrowing that will take effect in the current fiscal year. The remainder, about $6.7 billion, will go toward reducing a deficit in next year's budget that could be as deep as $20 billion.
Mr. Davis, a Democrat, has called a special session of the legislature starting on Monday to consider his emergency measures.
Under his proposal, education would take the biggest cut, more than $3 billion in the next 18 months. The state will impose a 3.7 percent across-the-board cut in payments to elementary and secondary schools and community colleges, as well as $700 million in reductions in other school-related programs. To help the education system compensate for the lost revenue, the governor is proposing to waive the requirement that local school districts keep 3 percent of their budgets in reserve.
During the boom years, when the state treasury was awash in tax revenues from newly rich high-technology millionaires, the state extended health care benefits to many low-income working families that otherwise would not have qualified. It also provided a dental care plan for Medicaid recipients. Mr. Davis said those benefits would now have to be rescinded.
"Revenue is down significantly so I believe action should be taken immediately to reduce expenditures," he said. "We're not out of the woods by a long shot and may not be for several years."
Education officials had been preparing themselves for sharp cuts in school aid, but said it would be extremely difficult to find cost savings halfway through the school year. 
Wayne Johnson, president of the California Teachers Association, said school buildings would continue to crumble and class sizes would grow.
"Stack them deep and teach them cheap," Mr. Johnson said. "That will become the philosophy. You just won't have any choice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Gray Davis of California announced spending cuts yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TRENDS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); FAMILY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



179 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Rose to 6% In November; 8-Year High 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Defying recent evidence that the economy is starting to improve, the nation's job market deteriorated in November, lifting the unemployment rate to 6 percent from 5.7 percent in October, the government reported yesterday. That matched the highest rate this year and left joblessness at a level not seen since 1994.
 The Labor Department said that payrolls at nonfarm businesses, adjusted to account for expected seasonal variations, dropped by 40,000, mainly as a result of steep job losses in manufacturing. After the recent decline in new unemployment claims, the consensus of forecasters had expected the economy to eke out a small gain in jobs last month. 
 That consensus, echoing the view of the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, also held that the economy was passing through a "soft spot" of trickling growth this fall but would pick up speed again early next year. Many experts still expect a moderate expansion in the economy next year, and some pointed to statistical quirks that exaggerated the current weakness. Nonetheless, the government's report of a further loss of jobs last month came as something of a reality check.
"This is a little bit disheartening," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's. "We were expecting manufacturing to be down -- it just dropped more than we thought."
Mr. Wyss cited the dockworkers' labor dispute on the West Coast and competition from abroad for the worse-than-expected decline in payrolls in manufacturing. But he also noted that manufacturing, a reliable engine in recoveries until the 1980's, had become a much smaller presence in the job market.
"Manufacturing just isn't as important anymore," Mr. Wyss said. "Service jobs don't go down as much in recessions -- that's the good news -- but they don't come back as much in recoveries. We are in the world of milder recessions and slower rebounds."
The increase in joblessness touched men more than women but hit blacks and teenagers hardest of all. Though the Labor Department's estimates for young and minority workers are based on relatively small samples, said Harry J. Holzer, a professor of public policy at Georgetown University, they do conform to a long-running trend.
"You always expect a softening in the labor market to hit the marginal workers, who are the youngest and the least skilled," he said. "When you get to that point when you're recovering strongly, then they'll gain disproportionately, too."
That stage of the recovery may still be well down the road, however. "What we're seeing right now is very similar in some ways to the early 1990's, where you had a mild recession and a very mild recovery to the recession," Professor Holzer said. "Almost two years after the downturn, there was a big jump-up in unemployment. The recovery was too soft to absorb workers coming into the labor force."
If that chain of events repeats itself, the hundreds of thousands of jobless whose unemployment benefits have already expired or are about to run out may be in for a long, hard winter. John H. Makin, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, said he worried that the labor market's usual self-correcting mechanisms had given way to a dangerous quandary. "If too many people are laid off," he said, "then demand weakens and the basic problem is made worse."
That view was shared by Maurice Emsellem, director of public policy for the National Employment Law Project. He said he also hoped the successors to Paul H. O'Neill and Lawrence B. Lindsey, who resigned yesterday from their posts as treasury secretary and economic counselor to the president, would "support an extension of unemployment benefits as a proven economic tool to help stimulate the economy."
The further loss of jobs last month is bound to concern monetary policy makers at the Fed, who are scheduled to meet on Tuesday. But few economists expect the Fed, which lowered short-term interest rates by a larger-than-usual half a percentage point last month, to make another cut right away.
"I don't think the Fed is going to do anything on the basis of this report," Mr. Wyss said. All the same, he added, "I still think they have one rate cut left in them."
The rise in unemployment is also likely to give a sharp impetus to the Bush administration's plans to offer a big package of fiscal stimulus, which is expected to include tax cuts aimed at encouraging consumer spending and investment in the stock market.
Many analysts had been expecting a more positive jobs report, especially since first-time claims for unemployment benefits sank to a 19-month low last week. The department conducted its employment survey before it collected the most recent data on claims, though.
Moreover, all the department's figures included new adjustments for seasonal variations, which can be difficult to calibrate during the holiday season. For example, payrolls in retail trade registered an adjusted loss of 39,000 jobs in November even though retailers actually added hundreds of thousands of jobs last month. But because Thanksgiving and the beginning of the year-end shopping frenzy came just at the end of the month, retailers may have made the bulk of their hires too late for the Labor Department's survey. "There's a huge seasonal factor," Mr. Wyss said.
The potential for another slump in manufacturing could pose an especially big risk to the recovery, since it is the one sector that usually bounces back quickly.
"We've been through this cycle three times before," Mr. Makin said. In February, July and early October stock prices rose in anticipation of a revival in manufacturing but soon receded. "Every time it gets a little scarier," Mr. Makin said, because policy makers' actions along the way have apparently failed to jump-start the economy.
The fundamental problem in the economy, he asserted, is still a preponderance of unneeded capacity for production. "That's what always happens when you have a bubble," he said. As a result, "you can't make money if you don't cut costs, and in manufacturing two-thirds of everybody's costs are labor."
Hourly earnings in the private sector rose by 4 cents in November, the government reported, and easily outpaced inflation by gaining 2.9 percent for the year through November. Working hours did not change in either manufacturing or service fields over all, though carmakers demanded less time from their laborers than they had since August.
The chances that economic succor will come from abroad seem increasingly slim. Neither Japan nor Europe, traditional export markets for the United States and needed bolsters for a global recovery, promise to grow quickly in the coming year.
"We are heading for a period of lower growth," said Martin Hufner, chief economist of HypoVereinsbank, Germany's second-biggest bank. He predicted that Europe would grow 0.7 percent for all of 2002 and just 1.3 percent in 2003.
Japan's meager expansion has relied on exports, which could also bode ill for the United States in the short run, Mr. Wyss said. "The Japanese are calling for a weaker yen to boost exports, because they're not running a big enough surplus."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edwin Lopez, left, of Hollywood, Fla., gets some job advice from Willie Osborne at a Workforce One office in Fort Lauderdale. Joblessness has hit an eight-year high. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Still Suffering"Shortly after President Bush took office, the economy went into a recession, contributing to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. The economy is expanding again, but job growth has remained anemic. Graph tracks monthly change in employment, services, and manufacturing from Jan. 2001-Nov. 2002. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1) Chart: "The Labor Picture in November"BY DEMOGRAPHICWhite: 5.2Black: 11.0Hispanic*: 7.8Men 20 and over: 5.7Women 20 and over: 5.0Teenagers (16-19): 16.8 Graph tracks Civilian unemployment: 6.0 percent from Dec.-Nov. OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 8.5Lost job: 4.7Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 2.4New to labor market: 0.6 Graph tracks employment from Dec.-Nov.Household survey: 134.2 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 130.9 million BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmOct.: 130.9Nov.: 130.9 GoodsOct.: 23.7Nov.: 23.6 ServicesOct.: 107.2Nov.: 107.2 AgricultureOct.: 3.5Nov.: 3.4 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent)Work force:Oct.: 62.9Nov.: 62.5 Labor force (workers and unemployed):Oct.: 66.7Nov.: 66.4 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (74%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



180 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Turmoil at the Argentine Central Bank 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Confusion reigned in Argentina over who, if anyone, was at the helm of the country's central bank today, after the reported resignation of its president, Aldo Pignanelli.
 Although the country's two leading dailies, Clarin and La Nacion, each reported Mr. 
Pignanelli had resigned over differences with the economy minister, Roberto Lavagna, a central bank spokesman said there was no resignation, "but anything can happen." 
 President Eduardo Duhalde, visiting Brazil, said he had received word of Mr. Pignanelli's offer to resign but said he had no idea what his motives could be. Mr. Duhalde said he would meet with Mr. Pignanelli on Monday.
If confirmed, it would be the second resignation of a central bank president this year. Mario Blejer stepped down in June, also because of differences with Mr. Lavagna.
"This kind of turbulence is not a good thing for Argentina," said John Welch, chief Latin American economist at West LB in New York. He said the central bank had had some success in establishing monetary policy."
Drained by four years of recession, a default and a drastic devaluation of its peso, Argentina said last month that it could not meet its obligations to the World Bank, further complicating continuing negotiations with the International Monetary Fund to resume financial assistance.
Mr. Pignanelli had reportedly been in favor of maintaining payments to multilateral institutions like the World Bank. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: WESTLB AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN K WELCH (57%) PIGNANELLI, ALDO; LAVAGNA, ROBERTO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (56%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (76%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



181 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Debating Sprawl on the Ridge; 
Conservationists Oppose a Developer's Vision of the Gunks

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: GARDINER, N.Y., Dec. 6 

 BODY:
As a young man in the mid-1950's, John Atwater Bradley was so taken by the Shawangunk Ridge that he skipped the last day of a conference to hike into the wilderness. He returned 14 hours later, he said, after trekking more than 40 miles. 
 "I didn't expect to be gone that long, but every time I saw something or found something, I just kept going," said Mr. Bradley, now 70, who tells the story of his marathon hike to friends and fellow members of the Explorers Club in Manhattan. "It is a wonderland." 
 Mr. Bradley has bought up much of the Shawangunks (locals say SHON-gums), a vast wilderness area sprinkled with pearl-colored cliffs, waterfalls and thick forests about 80 miles northwest of New York City. By his count, he has spent more than $3 million to piece together 2,700 acres, becoming one of the largest landowners in Ulster County. 
Now he plans to develop this land selectively, saying that it will be better protected as a private retreat for affluent, conservation-minded people like himself than as a state park. Last month, he announced a partnership with Chaffin/Light Associates, a developer known for its eco-friendly projects, to build hundreds of Adirondack-style homes, along with a fitness center, dining club and 18-hole golf course. 
This plan reflects a growing effort across the country to carve out a middle ground between traditional land conservation and the kind of urban sprawl embodied by McMansions and strip malls. During the past decade, architects and developers have begun to cluster houses in smaller areas with more trees and nature areas.
"It's an antidote to sprawl," said William Hudnut, a senior fellow at the Urban Land Institute, a Washington-based research and education group. "The emphasis is not on more cookie-cutter suburbs moving farther out, but on quality development that means careful design and conservation of green spaces." 
Mr. Hudnut and others say that such projects supply housing for an expanding population and increase the local tax base. (Mr. Bradley, who made his money as a consultant to foreign governments on economic issues, paid more than $120,000 last year in taxes on the Shawangunk land.) At the same time, supporters say, this type of development offers conservation that does not strain the limited resources of state park services. 
But opponents say that even the most carefully planned development can harm fragile ecosystems and fragment the landscape. 
This larger debate over whether development and conservation can work together is now playing out in the Shawangunks, where "Save the Ridge" signs have begun popping up in windows and yards. Many residents say that a subdivision would block their views, jam their narrow roads with traffic and infringe upon the simple pleasures of country living. 
"It's the most beautiful place I know," said Kerry Clair, who started a Web site, www.savethegunks .com, to oppose the development. "I can't imagine looking over the ridge and seeing rooftops and people with their little golf shoes and caddies. It would break my heart."
While not as famous as the Adirondacks or the Catskills, the Shawangunks have drawn rock climbers, hikers and patrons of the Mohonk Mountain House, an 1869 Victorian castle that is the most famous landmark here. More recently, its charms have been discovered by scores of weekend homeowners and celebrities, as varied as the actor Robert De Niro, Jim Fowler (the host of "Wild Kingdom") and the architect David Rockwell.
The Shawangunks, more commonly called the Gunks, are a series of ancient stone ridges that have fractured into steep cliffs and shelter several dozen rare plant and animal species, including one of the best known dwarf pine barrens along the ridge top.
Nearly half of the 85,000 acres here have been turned into state parkland or private nature preserves, including the 12,000-acre Minnewaska State Park. 
Conservation groups say they have repeatedly tried to buy Mr. Bradley's sprawling property, which adjoins the Minnewaska Park, but he has refused to sell. "It's on everybody's list," said Joseph J. Martens, president of the Open Space Institute. 
In a 1988 study, the Friends of the Shawangunks, a grass-roots organization, warned that Mr. Bradley's property was the "soft underbelly" of the Minnewaska Park because of the potential for development.
"I've always been afraid of what he would do," said Keith LaBudde, the group's president. "People have been trying to protect that land for years, and he has resisted for his own reasons."
Mr. Bradley, who shuttles between a Manhattan apartment and a rambling chestnut log house here, said that he always intended to conserve the land in some way when he acquired it.
But, he said, neither the state park service nor the conservation groups had the resources to protect it from careless people riding mountain bikes and all-terrain vehicles.
"This land is too fragile," he said. "It will not take that." 
Mr. Bradley said that he had had to summon state troopers to remove trespassers who were damaging his property. Two years ago, he said he closed his land to hikers on the Long Path, a trail that stretches from the George Washington Bridge to Albany, because he found deep ruts in the ground. (State park officials are trying to relocate that part of the trail to Minnewaska.) 
So instead of parkland, Mr. Bradley and his partners envision using the land to create a "green community." Houses would have to be constructed with natural materials, like wood and stone, and set back from the ridge line, they said. A nature center and nonprofit land trust would be set up to manage the remaining wilderness. 
They expect to submit their proposal to local planning officials in the next few months. Jack Hayes, the Gardiner town supervisor, said that much of the property has already been approved for residential and recreational use. "It's private property and it qualifies for development," he said.
But many residents are preparing to fight the development, in part because they have clashed with Mr. Bradley in the past. They say that he has refused to allow them access to his property and gone so far as to press charges or sue them in court over petty disputes. They have sued him, too.
"He's always posed as the world's greatest conservationist, a walking Sierra Club if you will, and now he has stepped into the light as a developer," said Manuela Hoelterhoff, a former culture critic for The Wall Street Journal.
Mr. Bradley said that he had invited people onto his land, when they called ahead for permission. "I thought I had been a good neighbor," he said. "I've allowed hunting and fishing, but I'm careful about how it's done."
Not long ago, Mr. Bradley, in a wide-brimmed hat and hiking boots, set out into the private wilderness that he has named the Awosting Reserve -- after an Indian word, he said, for pure water. His purpose was to cull fresh berries from a cranberry bog, but he was soon stopping every few feet to explore an interesting creek or ledge. 
As the light faded and the winds gusted around him, Mr. Bradley turned back empty-handed but content. "I think it's in my blood," he said. "I need to get up here to clear my lungs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Atwater Bradley says his land on Shawangunk Ridge will thrive as a retreat for the affluent; Doris Chorny, above, a local homeowner, disagrees. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Roger Atwater Bradley, 70, with a Manhattan apartment and a log house in the Gunks, prefers a "green community" to parkland.; Signs opposing the proposed development in the Awosting Preserve, part of the Shawangunk Ridge, can be seen all over near Gardiner, N.Y. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Map of New York State highlighting Shawangunk Ridge: Do new homes and a golf course fit in Ulster County's wilderness? (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HIKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); WILDERNESS (77%); STATE PARKS (77%); GOLF (75%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (71%); SUBURBS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); RETAILERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



182 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: US Air's Chief Lender Threatens the Ultimate 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
The chief executive of the primary lender to US Airways said yesterday that he would liquidate the airline if unions refused to provide $200 million in additional wage and benefit concessions.
 In an interview, David G. Bronner, head of the Retirement Systems of Alabama, said that he did not expect to have to follow through on his ultimatum and predicted that the discussions between the airline and its employees would result in an agreement by next week. 
 The concessions would be the second round in US Airways' efforts to draft a reorganization plan under Chapter 11 protection from its creditors. US Airways has said it hopes to submit its proposal to a federal bankruptcy court by Dec. 20. Before that, it would like to receive final approval for $900 million in loan guarantees from the government, which gave it provisional approval last summer. 
To do so, the airline has asked union members for further cuts in pay and benefits. If they do not comply, Mr. Bronner said in the interview, the airline would go out of business and be liquidated in bankruptcy court. "What's their alternative?" he asked rhetorically. "If they don't want to do this, we'll Chapter 7 it."
Referring to the debtor-in-possession financing that the Alabama pension system is providing the airline during its time under bankruptcy protection, Mr. Bronner said that without concessions, "we'll pull the D.I.P. financing and they're gone."
His stance with the US Airways unions is an example of the tough approach that analysts expect airlines to begin taking with employees now that a United Airlines bankruptcy filing seems highly likely.
Indeed, Mr. Bronner's comments came as Donald J. Carty, the chairman and chief executive of American Airlines, continued a series of meetings this week with groups of employees. In the meetings, which began last week in Chicago and are expected to continue through the end of the year, Mr. Carty is emphasizing the financial crisis American is facing and its need for concessions, an American spokesman, Tim Doke, said. The airline is telling employees that if United emerges from bankruptcy with labor cost reductions, American will have to become similarly lean, Mr. Doke said.
At US Airways, Mr. Bronner's words carry extraordinary weight. As the result of negotiations completed this week, Mr. Bronner, who directs the $25 billion Alabama fund, will in effect take control of the airline's board at the point US Airways emerges from bankruptcy. 
Mr. Bronner and the airline agreed that he will have 7 of the 13 seats on the board, up from the 5 that he and the Alabama pension fund originally gained when he came forward in September to bid for the airline.
Mr. Bronner said the seven seats would be equivalent to 72 percent voting control of the airline, for which he initially agreed to provide $240 million in immediate financing as well as $500 million more in debtor-in-possession financing, outbidding the Texas Pacific Group. US Airways has drawn $300 million of that $500 million but cannot draw the remaining $200 million until it emerges from bankruptcy.
Mr. Bronner said that he would occupy one of the seven board seats, but had not decided who would have the others. As part of the agreement with the airline, Mr. Bronner is cutting his fund's stake, originally 37.5 percent, to 36 percent, so that a larger share can be given to unsecured creditors. Management is also reducing its stake, to 8 percent from 10 percent. Whenever the company emerges from bankruptcy, which it hopes to do by March, Mr. Bronner said he would give 2 percent of his stake to management to restore its lost holdings.
The negotiations came as US Airways struggles to reduce its costs and complete its Chapter 11 plan. Though workers cooperated in an initial round of concessions, some are opposed now. Only the pilots' union has agreed to consider further concessions. The machinists' union has rejected the idea, while the flight attendants said they would participate only if other unions did so.
Mr. Bronner asserted it was vital for the airline to obtain work rules from the unions "that are in this century, and not in the last century."
Yesterday, Scotty Ford, the president of the union chapter that represents mechanics, said he was willing to meet with US Airways on the matter. "We're just going to see what they're going to say," Mr. Ford said.
Patricia Friend, international president of the Association of Flight Attendants, was critical of Mr. Bronner. "He's acting as though he believes an airline can be saved on the back of the workers," she said. "It shows his lack of experience. Maybe he's looking for an easy way out because he made a mistake. There's not going to be anything to govern if he liquidates."
Under the restructuring plan, unions will have three representatives on US Airways' board, one each for pilots and machinists, and the third to be shared by flight attendants and other employee groups. But unlike their counterparts at United Airlines, the union representatives do not receive veto power over company affairs, nor will the unions hold a stake in US Airways.
A spokesman for the airline, Chris Chiames, declined to comment on Mr. Bronner's remarks but said, "We plan to be working through the weekend, talking with our unions, and have every confidence that we'll reach agreements."
Mr. Bronner said he had no regrets about investing in the airline, despite the difficulties in this stage of the reorganization plan. "It always gets ugly right at the end," he said.
Officials at American, meanwhile, said their airline had no timetable for achieving cost reductions. Nonetheless, the carrier hopes that employees will rapidly agree to cuts that will help achieve savings of $3 billion to $4 billion a year by 2004, compared with what it spent on operations in 2001. Management has already squeezed out spending cuts of about $2 billion a year before approaching the union groups, said Mr. Doke, who is American's vice president for corporate communications.
"One of the purposes of these meetings is to give the sense that this is a period of immediate financial crisis," he said, "and we have to address it with that sense of urgency. We have to acknowledge that this is a time where we need to take a real hard look at our contracts, and look for as many savings as we possibly can."
In the meetings, which involve senior executives of American, the airline is providing employees with details of those spending cuts, then presenting comparisons between its labor costs and those of its competitors. The approach is intended to show employees that they are not the only source from which American is extracting savings.
But, Mr. Doke continued, "Obviously labor is a major expense line in this company, and we're going to have at some solutions to get us closer to the $3 billion to $4 billion target that will make us competitive."
While some analysts have speculated that American, based in Fort Worth, could follow US Airways, and potentially United, into bankruptcy court, the airline is not raising that possibility with employees, he said, nor does it expect that workers would put it in that position.
"None of our employees want to have anything close to a United situation," he said. "I don't think there's any way our employees will let us get to the point where a creditors' committee and a bankruptcy judge are writing our contracts."
But the airline is also not ignoring the economies that United could achieve in bankruptcy. "If United emerges as more competitive in their operations, we're going to have to be competitive with them on the cost side," Mr. Doke said.
He described the meetings as cordial, not adversarial, adding, "It's kind of a 180 from the kind of approach our friends in Alabama are taking."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David G. Bronner, chief executive of the Retirement Systems of Alabama, wants more concessions by US Airways workers. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); David Siegel, right, president of US Airways, with company lawyers this summer outside the courthouse in Alexandria, Va., after a bankruptcy hearing. Pension fund lenders say they will soon exert effective control. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; BANKRUPTCIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS; RETIREMENT SYSTEMS OF ALABAMA 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE; BRONNER, DAVID G 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



183 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Set Up Deal for Enron To Cut Millions From Tax Bill 

BYLINE:  By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan Chase engineered a complex transaction for Enron last year to allow the company to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars in tax deductions that normally would not have been permitted, people involved in the inquiry into the company's finances said yesterday.
 The transaction -- known internally at J. P. Morgan as Slapshot -- was put together by the company's structured finance group. It involved entities in Nova Scotia, Quebec City and the United States and was intended to give Enron enormous financial benefits through a reduction of its tax obligation in Canada, where it owned a paper mill. 
 The transaction is expected to be one of several reviewed next week by a Senate subcommittee that is conducting continuing hearings on financial engineering put together for Enron by banks like J. P. Morgan and Citigroup. 
In the end, 80 percent of the economic benefit from the $440 million tax deduction created by the transaction flowed through to Enron. The other 20 percent went to Citigroup, a competitor of J. P. Morgan that indirectly owned a stake, along with Enron, in a entity involved in the transaction. There is no indication that Morgan knew that Citigroup was receiving a benefit from the transaction.
While the outcome of the transaction -- which allowed Enron to benefit from a traditional deduction of interest as well as an untraditional deduction of principal from a financing deal -- was unusual, there is no indication that it was illegal. Indeed, structured finance deals are designed to achieve particular outcomes -- even ones that may seem illogical or misleading -- by building the transaction through an aggressive and rigorous reading of the rules. 
In the case of Slapshot, lawyers approved of the deal before it was executed. "The structure was reviewed with two Canadian law firms and found to be legal and appropriate under Canadian law," said Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for J. P. Morgan.
The transaction began in early 2001, when an affiliate of Enron bought a pulp and paper mill in Quebec City for $375 million. According to people who have reviewed records from the transactions, Enron raised the money by issuing short-term debt and then lent it to the affiliate to make the purchase. The result was that Enron added to its books $375 million in debt, plus the offsetting asset of the loan.
By June, the company was ready to put permanent financing in place. That was where Slapshot came in. Under normal tax rules, the Enron affiliate -- Compagnie Papiers Stadacona, or C.P.S. -- would be able to deduct its interest payments from its taxable income, using the same tax treatment available to homeowners with a mortgage. But with Slapshot, the affiliate could deduct the total expected interest plus the principal.
Accomplishing this required several steps, all of which took place on June 22, 2001, according to people who have reviewed the records of the deal. The first stage involved an entity affiliated with Morgan known as Flagstaff. Morgan, leading a consortium of four banks, gave a five-year $375 million loan to Flagstaff. Simultaneously, Morgan gave a one-day loan of slightly more than $1 billion to Flagstaff.
At that point, another special-purpose entity came into play. This one, known as Hansen, was based in Nova Scotia. Flagstaff provided a loan of about $1.4 billion -- the total of the two loans that it had received -- to Hansen. That loan came due in five years and one day. Under its terms, the loan was what is known as a bullet, requiring only interest payments until the final day of the loan, at which point the full amount of the principal would have to be repaid.
All told, the quarterly interest owed by Hansen to Flagstaff was identical to the quarterly interest and principal payment owed by Flagstaff to the bank consortium. The amount totaled $22 million a quarter, or $440 million over the life of the loans.
The connection to the paper mill came from Hansen. That entity lent the full $1.4 billion it received to C.P.S., the Enron affiliate. C.P.S. then used $375 million of that loan to repay Enron for the original loan used to buy the paper mill. The remaining billion dollars also went to Enron, although it was not clear whether that was in the form of a loan or some other financial instrument. 
As a result, C.P.S. was then obligated for interest payments totaling $440 million over the life of the loan -- payments that, as interest, would be fully deductible. However, the Enron affiliate was also still obligated to pay $1.4 billion in principal. The next steps of the transaction were designed to eliminate the economic effect of that obligation.
To accomplish that, one more special entity -- called Newman -- came into play. Newman agreed to buy shares in Hansen in five years. The purchase price was $1.4 billion, the same amount being swapped around among the various entities.
Newman then turned back to Flagstaff and agreed to turn over just more than $1 billion. In exchange, Flagstaff agreed to pay Newman's obligation to Hansen in five years. 
The result was that Flagstaff used the $1 billion to repay the one-day loan from Morgan. In five years, on the very day that Hansen would owe Flagstaff $1.4 billion, Flagstaff would owe Hansen the exact same amount. Both debts would cancel each other out. 
Throughout the transaction, obligation after obligation was designed to cancel out. In the end, the only pieces left standing would be the interest payments from C.P.S. to Hansen of $440 million. In other words, the $375 million in original principal was converted into interest through a loan where ultimately very little real money changed hands. 
The benefit to Enron was twofold. One, the $375 million in debt was moved off its balance sheet and into C.P.S. Two, it received a share of the economic benefit from the transaction through its ownership of C.P.S. This entailed yet another special-purpose entity, called Sundance, which was jointly owned by Enron and Citigroup. Enron's economic share of Sundance was 80 percent, which is why it received that portion of the benefit from the tax deduction.
But, despite all the effort, Enron never really saw a dime of benefit, because only one interest payment was made. In less than six months, Enron was bankrupt, defaulting on all of the obligations it had taken on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); PAPER MILLS (70%); PULP MILLS (69%); PULP INDUSTRY (69%); ETHICS (63%); LEGAL SERVICES (63%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%) TAX EVASION; TAXATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



184 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: China: Theme Park Planned 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Vivendi Universal and two Shanghai companies owned by the government plan to build the first foreign theme park in the city, a municipal official said. 
The official, Hua Xinxiang, deputy director of information for the Pudong district of the city, said an agreement on the project would be signed today. Vivendi, Walt Disney, AOL Time Warner and other companies are trying to expand to China as growth in the United States and Europe stalls. China, whose 8 percent annual expansion ranks it among the fastest-growing economies in the world, is giving foreign entertainment companies greater access. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%) AMUSEMENT AND THEME PARKS 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (94%); AOL INC (72%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (94%); VIV (BIT) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (72%); DIS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%) SIC1623 WATER; SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (91%); HENAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); ASIA (90%) CHINA; SHANGHAI (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



185 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Blix, Parrying the U.S., Urges Sharing Intelligence
Hans Blix, a United Nations weapons inspections chief, called on the United States to share intelligence to help in the search for Iraqi arms sites. He also parried American prodding for him to be more aggressive in Iraq, saying he has received no official criticism from American officials. A1

Iraqi's Stifled Spirits
In Iraq, the way alcohol is consumed reflects the shifts in Saddam Hussein's rule. Since he proclaimed a "faith" campaign in 1996, alcohol has lived in a twilight zone. A1

Russia's Central Asia Force
Russia has signed a new security pact with Kyrgyzstan, where a Russian air squadron and up to 1,000 Russian troops will be based by year's end as part of a new rapid reaction force that marks a major deployment for the Russian military in formerly Soviet Central Asia. A11

Bombing's Afghan Toll
A civilian was killed and several were injured on Sunday when an American B-52 bombed feuding factions in western Afghanistan, a government minister said. A10

Afghans Question U.S. Strategy
Four months after the United States adopted a new strategy of using more ground troops to hunt for remnants of Al Qaeda and the Taliban, it is unclear if the strategy is working, Afghan officials say. A10

Hard-Line Appointment
The appointment of Elliot Abrams to lead Middle East policy in the White House places him at the center of the administration's divided stance on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. A1

Israelis Kill 10 Palestinians
An attempt by Israeli troops to capture a militant went badly awry, descending into a firefight that left 10 Palestinians dead. A8

Venezuelan Violence
A gunman opened fire at a plaza in Caracas that was the center for antigovernment protesters shortly after the opposition announced continuation of a strike that was bringing the oil industry closer to a shutdown. A6

NATIONAL A12-18

Treasury Secretary Ousted In First Shake-Up by Bush
President Bush, wrestling with a shaky economy, dismissed his Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, and the director of his National Economic Council, Lawrence B. Lindsey. A1

White House officials said that the reason the Treasury secretary and the head of the National Economic Council were ousted was to rid the White House of an economic team that never got its message together and was unable to communicate economic policy. A1

Worry About Antiterror Costs
Government and business officials who met in Las Vegas to discuss national security issues said the United States may have too many vulnerable targets and not enough money to assure absolute protection. A11

A Tale of Two Brothers
William M. Bulger, the president of the University of Massachusetts, refused to testify when a Congressional committee asked him about his brother, James, an organized crime leader charged with racketeering and murder. A12

Software Company Is Raided
Federal agents raided a software company in a Boston suburb as part of an investigation into whether the company has ties to the terror network of Al Qaeda. A10

Parties Mixed Funds and Policy
Internal documents from the Republican and Democratic parties show that party officials repeatedly discussed policy matters -- and proposals that contributors wanted to see enacted as legislation -- in obtaining political donations. A15

Actress Receives Probation
A Los Angeles Superior Court judge sentenced the actress Winona Ryder to three years' probation after admonishing her for her apparent lack of contrition for last year's shoplifting spree. A12

California Faces Budget Cuts
Gov. Gray Davis proposed $10.2 billion in cuts in state spending to try to fill a cavernous hole in California's budget. A12

Beliefs A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Jury Finds Long Islander Guilty in Kidnapping Case
A jury convicted James Warren, 42, a computer technician from Hampton Bays, N.Y., of luring a 15-year-old Massachusetts girl from an Internet chat room devoted to sadomasochism into a weeklong ordeal of torture and sexual abuse. The convictions could bring a life sentence, the prosecutor said. B5

Prostitutes Getting Younger
Law enforcement officials, advocates and a former prostitute testified at a City Council hearing about what they saw as a growing and alarming phenomenon in New York and other cities: prostitutes who are younger and younger, some only 11 years old. B1

Bronx D.A. Clears Priest
The Bronx district attorney has found no cause for a criminal proceeding against Msgr. Charles M. Kavanagh, the most prominent New York priest caught up in the Catholic Church's sexual abuse scandal. B3

Neediest Cases B3

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A19

ARTS & IDEAS B7-19

Gift to Kennedy Center
The Kennedy Center in Washington received a gift of $100 million -- its largest ever -- for an education center that is planned as part of a $250 million expansion, the performing arts center announced. B7

Writers as Diplomats
The Bush administration has recruited prominent American writers to contribute to a State Department anthology and give readings around the globe in a campaign to use culture to further American diplomatic interests. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Unemployment Hits 6 Percent
The nation's unemployment rate rose to 6 percent in November from 5.7 percent in October, defying recent evidence of an improving economy. The rate matches this year's highest rate, a level of joblessness not exceeded since 1994. C1

A Push for More Health Care
Insurance executives across the country, worried that the growing number of uninsured people will undermine the nation's health care system and lead to government intervention, are pressing for new steps toward universal health care. C1

Ultimatum at US Airways
The chief executive of the primary lender to US Airways said he would liquidate the airline if unions refused to give another $200 million in wage and benefit concessions. He predicted an agreement would be reached by next week. C1

Bank Got Tax Break for Enron
J. P. Morgan Chase engineered a complex transaction for Enron last year designed to allow the company to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars in tax deductions that would not normally have been permitted in the course of business. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: President Bush's housecleaning; the man from might have been; television, by Roone Arledge; a digital Christmas.

Column: Frank Rich.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B19
Crossword B14
Weather B20

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); INSPECTIONS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); TALIBAN (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); SHOOTINGS (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (67%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (66%); AL-QAEDA (65%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



186 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
WENDY'S REDUCES ITS EARNINGS PROJECTION FOR 2002

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Wendy's International Inc. lowered its 2002 earnings forecast yesterday, saying that profits are being hurt by discounts from competitors, weak economic conditions and bad weather. Wendy's, the nation's third-largest hamburger chain, expects earnings in the range of $1.88 to $1.90 a share, an increase of 14 percent to 15 percent. 
Last month the company tightened its earnings outlook, saying it expected profits to be at the low end of previously forecast growth of 15 percent to 18 percent. The revised projection is below the consensus forecast of $1.91 a share by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. Wendy's stock fell 13 cents, to $27.32 a share. The company, which is based in Dublin, Ohio, said the discounting of premium products by hamburger competitors has hurt profits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); RESTAURANTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) RESTAURANTS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); WENDY'S CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



187 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 918 words

PERSON: Philip F. Berrigan 

HEADLINE: Philip Berrigan, Former Priest and Peace Activist in the Vietnam War Era, Dies at 79 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest who led the draft board raids that galvanized opposition to the Vietnam War in the late 1960's, died last night in Baltimore after a lifetime of battling "the American Empire," as he called it, over the morality of its military and social policies. He was 79. .
 His family said the cause was liver and kidney cancer, The Associated Press reported. 
 An Army combat veteran sickened by the killing in World War II, Mr. Berrigan came to be one of the most radical pacifists of the 20th century -- and, for a time in the Vietnam period, a larger-than-life figure in the convulsive struggle over the country's direction. 
In the late 60's he was a Catholic priest serving a poor black parish in Baltimore and seeing nothing that would change his conviction that war, racism and poverty were inseparable strands of a corrupt economic system. His Josephite superiors had previously hustled him out of Newburgh, N.Y., for aggressive civil rights and antiwar activity there; the "fatal blow," he said, had been a talk to a community affairs council in which he asked, "Is it possible for us to be vicious, brutal, immoral and violent at home and be fair, judicious, beneficent and idealistic abroad?"
He hardly missed a beat after his transfer to Baltimore, founding an antiwar group, Peace Mission, whose operations included picketing the homes of Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and Secretary of State Dean Rusk in December 1966. By the fall of 1967 Mr. Berrigan and three friends were ready to try a new tactic. On Oct. 17, they walked into the Baltimore Customs House, distracted the draft board clerks and methodically spattered Selective Service records with a red liquid made partly from their own blood.
Three decades later, Mr. Berrigan remembered feeling "exalted" as the judge sentenced him to six years in prison. From then on, he would be in and out of jail for repeated efforts to interfere with government operations and deface military hardware.
Even before his sentencing for the Customs House raid, Father Berrigan instigated a second invasion, against the local draft board office in Catonsville, Md. Among those persuaded to join was his older brother, the Rev. Daniel J. Berrigan, a Jesuit priest and poet, who had been one of the first prominent clergymen to preach and organize against the war. 
The "Catonsville Nine" struck on May 17, 1968, taking hundreds of files relating to potential draftees from the second floor of the Knights of Columbus building, where the draft board rented space. They piled the documents in the parking lot and set them burning with a mixture of gasoline and soap chips -- homemade napalm. 
Reporters were on hand, having been told in advance, and they were given a statement that read, "We destroy these draft records not only because they exploit our young men but also because they represent misplaced power concentrated in the ruling class of America."
When the police arrived, the trespassers were praying in the parking lot. The cameras loved the Berrigans. In the definitive photograph of the event, seven of the Catonsville Nine are nowhere to be seen. The photo includes only the striking image of two priests in clerical dress, one big and craggy, the other slight and puckish, serenely accepting their imminent incarceration. 
With so many marches and campus protests going on across the country, it would have been impossible to quantify the effect of a single event on public opinion. What can be said about the Catonsville raid is that it inspired others in New York City, Milwaukee, Boston, Chicago and other cities, the tactic becoming a sort of calling card of the "ultra-resistance." It also elevated the Berrigan brothers to the status of superstars. "Father Phil" and "Father Dan" were on the cover of Time magazine and illuminated in profiles by the smartest writers. 
But many Americans saw them as communists and traitors, or at best naive dupes of the Vietcong. 
Philip Francis Berrigan was born Oct. 5, 1923, in Two Harbors, Minn., the youngest of six sons of Thomas W. Berrigan and Frida Fromhart Berrigan, a German immigrant. Thomas Berrigan was a frustrated poet and a bullying, tyrannical husband and father. He was also a political radical whose labor organizing activities led to his dismissal as a railroad engineer, after which he moved to Syracuse to be with his family and bought a farm.
After high school, Philip was a first baseman in semiprofessional baseball before enrolling in St. Michael's College in Toronto. In January 1943, after one semester, he was drafted into the Army.
The life of black sharecroppers in Georgia, where he had basic training, and the treatment of black soldiers on his troop ship to Europe made an indelible impression on his conscience. In retrospect, once the war was over, so did his own role in infantry and artillery battles that earned him a battlefield commission as second lieutenant. In so many words, he came to consider himself as guilty of murder as the Germans and Japanese. Along with this came the conviction that he had grown up on a diet of nationalistic propaganda in which the good -- "white Europeans" -- always triumphed over evil -- "anyone else."
As an assistant pastor in Washington in 1955 and 1956 and a counselor and teacher at St. Augustine High School in New Orleans from 1956 to 1963, the young priest became passionately involved in civil rights and antiwar activities, especially after the Cuban missile crisis in 1962.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip F. Berrigan (Marty Katz, 1985) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); VIETNAM WAR (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SENTENCING (88%); ARMIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); US SELECTIVE SERVICE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); RACE & RACISM (68%); JUDGES (68%); WRITERS (60%); KIDNEY CANCER (56%); CANCER (56%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813410 CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); SIC8641 CIVIC, SOCIAL, & FRATERNAL ASSOCIATIONS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

BERRIGAN, PHILIP F; LEWIS, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Religion 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



188 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Shares of Chicago Exchange Vault by 22% 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Investors responded with enthusiasm to the opening of trading today in shares of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings, the first major United States financial exchange to go public; the share price rose more than 22 percent. 
 The offering by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the world's No. 2 futures exchange, lived up to expectations as one of the year's hottest initial public offerings. 
 The exchange raised $166.3 million through the sale of 4.75 million shares. The offering on Thursday was priced at $35, above the initial expected range of $31 to $34.
Leaders of the 104-year-old exchange rang the opening bell at the Big Board this morning, and the shares sold briskly, closing at $42.90.
Sal Morreale, who tracks initial offerings for Cantor Fitzgerald, saluted "the fact that there are people that have the conviction to buy the stock in the after-market like this."
"It's positive," Mr. Morreale said. 
Other exchanges that have considered going public have closely watched the introduction of the exchange's stock, which comes at a time when traditional open-outcry markets are threatened by the rise of all-electronic trading. 
The nation's exchanges have in the past been tightly controlled by their member-owners, many of whom have clung to traditional trading rather than switch to the cheaper, streamlined electronic trades. 
The introduction of the Chicago stock could presage several more public offerings by stock and derivatives exchanges, including a possible offering by NASD, parent of the Nasdaq market.
Officials there are considering a potential offering for late in the second quarter of next year. But they have said that any public offering would be dependent on market conditions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Orders rang out yesterday in a futures pit even as the Chicago exchange's own shares traded. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); FUTURES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (74%); BONDS (74%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%) CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE 

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



189 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Shares Gain on News of Bush Economic Team Shake-Up

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A shake-up of President Bush's economic team heartened investors yesterday, sending stocks higher despite a discouraging employment report. Still, blue-chip stocks ended an eight-week winning streak. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 121 points early yesterday before rebounding on news that Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and the White House adviser Lawrence B. Lindsey had resigned. Analysts said the news offered hope of a fresh approach to bolstering the economy. 
 "The market doesn't like O'Neill," said Scott Wren, equity strategist for A. G. Edwards & Sons. Investors are hoping to see a replacement "who's going to be more in tune with the global economy in terms of what makes it tick." 
The Dow climbed 22.49 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 8,645.77, after a five-day loss of 308 points. 
The broader market also finished higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.68 points, or 0.6 percent, to 912.23, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 11.69 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 1,422.44. 
For the week, the Dow fell 2.8 percent, to snap its eight-week winning streak. The Nasdaq dropped 3.8 percent and the S.& P. 500 lost 2.6 percent, ending three consecutive weeks of gains. 
The Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate unexpectedly rose to 6 percent in November, matching an eight-year high set in April. The number offered a bleaker snapshot of the economy -- analysts had forecast only a slight increase from the 5.7 percent in October. 
"The report shows that while the unemployment rate stays at historically low levels, weak job growth confirms a modest recovery is under way," said Ed Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management in Boston. 
Still, he said, the news is not as bad as it seems, and he predicted continued growth in consumer spending, which accounts for about two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. 
"The recovery remains a buyer's market, and Americans are still strong consumers," Mr. Peters said. 
Analysts say the market's recent declines are not surprising after the previous eight weeks of blue-chip gains. They say many investors are taking profits on worries about corporate earnings and a war with Iraq, but will eventually bid stocks higher on hopes of a year-end rally. 
"You had two straight months of pretty much 20 percent upside on the averages, and that's not sustainable," said Tony Cecin, director of institutional trading at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 
Gainers included J. P. Morgan Chase, which climbed 82 cents, to $24.43, and Philip Morris, which rose 59 cents, to $39.95. 
Shares of Intel fell 25 cents, to $18.71, despite raising its fourth-quarter revenue forecast on stronger sales of its microprocessors. 
I.B.M. dropped 74 cents, to $82.32, after announcing it would buy Rational Software for $2.1 billion in cash. Salomon Smith Barney downgraded I.B.M. to in line from outperform, citing the high price of its stock. Shares of Rational rose $2.12, to $10.29. 
The price of Treasury bonds rose yesterday. 
 The 10-year Treasury note climbed 12/32, to a price of 99 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.09 percent from 4.13 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond increased 4/32, to 105 31/32. The bond's yield declined to 4.98 percent from 4.99 percent on Thursday.
The two-year note rose 6/32, to 100 8/32. The yield on the note fell to 1.87 percent from 1.97 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (60%); INTEL CORP (58%); PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%) NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS 

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (60%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



190 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Is Sued Over Emissions Classification 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Three environmental groups have gone to court in an effort to force the Bush administration to declare that auto emissions contribute to global warming.
 In a lawsuit filed on Thursday in Federal District Court in Washington, the groups said the Environmental Protection Agency unlawfully failed to respond to their 1999 petition seeking restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that trap heat in the atmosphere. Agency officials said yesterday that they could not comment on the suit because they had not yet reviewed it. 
 The groups said their suit was intended partly to force the government to curtail auto emissions and partly to clear the way for states to take action on their own. California has a law restricting tailpipe emissions, and other states are considering such measures, but experts on climate policy say the laws cannot take effect unless the E.P.A. establishes that the gases are pollutants.
The administration, along with the oil and auto industries, sees any such restrictions as unnecessary and harmful to the economy. President Bush has said he will support nothing beyond voluntary measures to slow the rate of growth of emissions until science shows more clearly that warming caused by humans poses a significant threat.
Cars and other vehicles emit about a third of the gases that scientists have linked to a 50-year warming trend. The environmental groups' original petition said that under the Clean Air Act the emissions should be restricted as pollutants.
As early as 1994, E.P.A. documents labeled carbon dioxide "a pollution concern." But Republicans in Congress and industry lobbyists defeated any moves toward restrictions, and last year Mr. Bush, in abandoning a campaign pledge to restrict carbon dioxide from power plants, said it "is not a pollutant under the Clean Air Act."
Yesterday, Dan Becker, the director of climate policy at the Sierra Club, one of the plaintiffs, said it was "time for the agency charged with protecting human health and the environment to begin to control carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases contributing to global warming." 
The other plaintiffs are Greenpeace and the International Center for Technology Assessment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETITIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); WEATHER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); TRENDS (74%); POWER PLANTS (71%) WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; GLOBAL WARMING; AUTOMOBILES 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); SIERRA CLUB (59%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%) SIERRA CLUB; GREENPEACE (ORGN); INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) REVKIN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



191 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: President Bush's Housecleaning 

 BODY:
With the presidential election now less than two years away, George W. Bush started honing his team yesterday for the coming campaign. He did so by dismissing his top two economic advisers, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and Lawrence Lindsey, a White House aide. The decision rids the White House of men whose counsel was not always followed -- and, in the case of Mr. O'Neill, whose political stumbles were legion. Given President Bush's fear of following his father into early retirement because of a weak economy, the shake-up may also be prelude to a new raft of ambitious but ill-advised economic stimulus proposals. 
 Renewed economic activism could prove as fiscally reckless as the huge tax cuts that Mr. Bush sold to Congress in the first months of his presidency. To his credit, Mr. O'Neill, who was often right but rarely effective in his job, had lately expressed reservations about the White House's desire to fashion an ambitious stimulus package, reservations that may have forced his departure. Some measured incentives to foster economic growth may be needed, but Mr. O'Neill was right to worry about rising budget deficits, and to question the merits of further income tax cuts and various tax breaks for investors. 
 Mr. O'Neill was never a favorite of conservative Republicans, who suspected he didn't share their tax-cutting fervor. He preferred to focus on a "revenue-neutral" simplification of the tax code. Before being reined in during the 2001 tax-cut fight, he once dismissed the effort as "show business."
In many ways Mr. O'Neill was the domestic counterpart of Colin Powell, another moderate member of the Bush team who often finds himself out of step with his colleagues. Mr. O'Neill differed with the president on a range of issues, from the proper response to the corporate accounting scandals to global warming and steel tariffs. Unlike Mr. Powell, he never seemed to win any internal policy debates, and lacked the political skills to defend Mr. Bush's policies effectively.
Mr. O'Neill's weaknesses undermined his credibility in representing the United States on economic matters overseas, a critical aspect of the job these days. In contrast with Robert Rubin, who mastered the art of economic diplomacy as Bill Clinton's Treasury secretary, Mr. O'Neill's performance on the global stage was marked by damaging gaffes and a sense that he didn't really speak for the president.
Mr. Bush now has an opportunity to appoint a forceful Treasury secretary who can help him shape and communicate the administration's economic policies, and play a leadership role in global economic matters. If he wants that sort of partner, he would be well advised to bypass political operatives and economic ideologues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); TAX REFORM (68%); SCANDALS (66%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (63%); ACCOUNTING (50%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (78%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



192 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: A New Agenda for a New Economic Team 

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Roach; Stephen S. Roach is chief economist and director of global economics for Morgan Stanley.

 BODY:
Washington is about to get a new economic team. The sudden but hardly unexpected departure of Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and Lawrence Lindsey, the director of the National Economic Council, provides the Bush administration with an opportunity to rethink its economic policies. This reconsideration comes at a pivotal time -- for the United States and for the world.
 The economic and financial-market climate is markedly different today than it was when President Bush took office. Since then, the United States economy has experienced a mild recession -- and, to date, an anemic recovery -- and financial markets have been roiled by scandals, corporate earnings disappointments and mounting geopolitical tensions stemming from the devastating terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. The world economy has also taken a turn for the worse. 
 But the biggest and most worrisome risk is the potential for an outbreak of global deflation. Most of Asia, which accounts for 30 percent of the world economy, is already in deflation. The United States is not too far behind, with its broad price index for the gross domestic product up a mere 0.8 percent in the third quarter of 2002 from year-earlier levels -- nearly a 50-year low. Deflationary risks are also mounting in Europe, especially in Germany, its largest economy.
The world's major central banks have correctly turned their attention to the perils of deflation. Both the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank have eased interest rates aggressively in recent weeks to stave off such threats. The Bank of Japan has spent its ammunition on interest rates, and Japanese officials are now contemplating other options, namely a weaker yen. Fiscal policies have also moved toward greater stimulus, especially in the United States and Japan.
There are no guarantees that these policies are working. Policy traction is most difficult to achieve at low levels of inflation and nominal interest rates. In the United States, the three sectors that could most give the economy a boost -- durable goods like cars and furniture, new home construction, and business capital spending -- have all gone to excess in recent years, so their response to policy stimulus could be surprisingly muted.
The Bush administration's new economic policy team will have to take a different approach. Policies must now look outward to the broader global arena, not just inward to America's domestic concerns.
A review of America's "strong dollar" policy, which has been in place for most of the past two decades, should be the top priority for the new secretary of the treasury. A strong currency encourages purchases of cheaper imports, pushing down prices of goods made at home that compete with merchandise produced overseas. In inflationary periods, this is a good thing. But when the risks shift to deflation, as they have today, it is not. By pushing down prices of many American-made products, a further appreciation of the dollar could well exacerbate the deflationary forces bearing down on the United States.
The next treasury secretary must also worry about America's trade deficit with the rest of the world. The United States' balance of payments deficit -- the broadest measure of our international financial position with other nations -- is likely to hit a record 5 percent of gross domestic product in 2002. Next year, this shortfall could climb to 6 percent, requiring foreigners to finance it by investing nearly $2 billion per day in America.
There is no quick fix to America's balance of payments problem. It requires policies aimed at boosting national saving, which is at historic lows, as well as encouraging other economies around the world to stimulate domestic demands of their consumers and businesses alike.
Taking the lead in support of trade liberalization will be another important role for the the next treasury secretary. In tough economic times, there is always the temptation to resort to protectionism as a means of shielding workers and companies from foreign competition. This temptation must be resisted. The new economic team should focus on opening foreign markets, not closing domestic ones.
All this is not to say that the new treasury secretary should abrogate responsibilities on matters of domestic policies. A new fiscal package is likely to be announced in early 2003 and it requires careful crafting by the president's economic advisers. Critical choices must be made between short-term stimulus measures needed to counter deflation and the longer-term fiscal prudence required to rebuild national saving.
These policy challenges are daunting. The virtues of the American system are not in question. But no system is invincible. Now is the time to take an activist role in addressing perils on the economics front. Washington's new economic team has both the opportunity and the responsibility to rise to the occasion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); DEFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); RECESSION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%) TREASURY DEPARTMENT; MORGAN STANLEY 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) ROACH, STEPHEN; O'NEILL, PAUL; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



193 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: Spokesman WhoCan Sell Tax Cuts 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The departure of the Bush administration's two top economic officials paves the way for a change in economic policy if the president wants one. The first job of the successors, however, may be to convince the public that the administration has an economic policy and that they are in a position to shape and explain it.
 The keystone economic accomplishment of the first two years of President Bush's term was clearly the tax cut, which almost certainly helped end the 2001 recession but has not yet produced strong growth. Moreover, having been first proposed during the presidential election campaign, when the economic outlook seemed far different, the tax cut appeared to be more of a political than an economic policy. 
 Now the administration must deal with a stuttering recovery in a world with many weak economies. It needs to find a spokesman who will be viewed as knowledgeable about markets, economics and Mr. Bush's own policies. And Mr. Bush also wants someone -- unlike Paul H. O'Neill -- who can enthusiastically sell additional tax cuts to Congress and the public. Mr. O'Neill's departure as Treasury secretary did not come with accolades, either from Washington or Wall Street. The administration let it be known that he had been forced out, and stock index futures prices, which had fallen sharply when the new jobs numbers came out a little earlier, rallied on the news.
Mr. O'Neill, who had compiled an impressive record as a government budget officer who went on to run Alcoa, never managed to become the central economic spokesman for the administration. At his confirmation hearing, he seemed less than enthusiastic about President Bush's tax cut plan, and he never managed to be a White House insider.
During his two years in office, Mr. O'Neill sometimes brought an honesty that might have seemed refreshing, as when he commented, accurately if not diplomatically, that the newly elected president of Brazil needed to persuade markets that he was "not a crazy person," or when he mentioned that it was markets, not the administration, that determined the value of the dollar.
When he took office, he was critical of the Clinton administration for supporting large bailouts of foreign countries, but he ended up supporting large International Monetary Fund packages for Turkey, a crucial ally in the fight with Iraq, as well as for Argentina and Brazil.
Some claimed the Brazil bailout had to be increased in size as a result of a comment by Mr. O'Neill that Brazilian officials needed "to assure that as assistance money comes in, that it does some good and doesn't just go out of the country to Swiss bank accounts."
With his standing with President Bush in doubt, his comments did not get the attention they might have received when he campaigned for tax simplification or said that new tax cuts, rather than being broad based, should be aimed in ways that would lift the economy.
At the same time, when it came to the stock market and the prospects for economic growth, Mr. O'Neill sometimes came across as a cheerleader. After the Sept. 11 attacks, he forecast the stock market would be making new highs within 18 months. At a time of widespread fear, and with markets already far below their highs, such a forecast seemed wildly optimistic. It still does.
Lawrence B. Lindsay, who also resigned yesterday as director of the National Economic Council, played a leading role in formulating the tax cut plan. But he, too, was never able to establish himself as necessarily being the voice of the Bush administration on economic policy, and his estimate that a war in Iraq might cost $200 billion was not well received by other administration officials.
The departures were announced on the same day that the November job numbers came out, providing another disappointment and more evidence that the recovery from the 2001 recession has been weak and uneven.
A new team will have to help decide what policy initiatives to push, both domestically and internationally, as the administration tries to get the economy moving faster, and to put behind it the term "jobless recovery," which bedeviled the current president's father and is now being heard again.
One issue will be the nature of tax cuts to be pushed this year. Making last year's tax cuts permanent may or may not be a good idea, but it will have little effect on the economy before the next election. Some businesses would like to see targeted tax cuts to encourage investment, but others would prefer to see cuts that would help lower-income consumers spend more. Reducing or eliminating the double taxation of dividends is being pushed hard as a way to help the stock market.
Then there is the risk that state and local governments will be enacting spending cuts and tax increases that will slow the economy. There will be pressures on Washington to provide more aid to those governments.
On the international front, the Bush administration confronts a world economy with few engines of growth among the major industrial powers, collectively known as the Group of 8 since Russia was added for geopolitical reasons. Germany is close to recession but is raising taxes to meet what are probably unrealistic budget goals. Japan remains sluggish more than a decade after its bubble burst.
"An enlightened Treasury secretary replacing O'Neill is going to be in a position to engage his G-8 brethren about sharing responsibility for raising the global level of demand," said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig.
A month before the midterm election, Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary and one of those mentioned as a possible successor to Mr. O'Neill, said that the economy was "recovering from an economic slowdown that began in the summer of 2000" and that President Bush deserved credit for the recovery.
By conventional economic measures, the recession actually began in the spring of 2001, after Mr. Bush took office, but voters appeared to agree with Mr. Evans that Mr. Bush did not deserve blame for the problems. Mr. Bush and his aides no doubt know that blaming his predecessor will not be as effective if the economy still appears weak two years from now.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul H. O'Neill, who was forced out yesterday as Treasury secretary, answered a reporter's question during a trip to New York last summer. Mr. O'Neill sometimes came across as a cheerleader for the stock market. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US DOLLAR (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); FUTURES (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (54%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) NORRIS, FLOYD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); TURKEY (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



194 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SAFEGUARDS; 
Deficits Looming, Governors Worry About Antiterror Costs

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
In the 15 months since terrorists struck the East Coast, the nation has toughened airport security procedures, tightened the borders and created a cabinet department to protect against future attacks.
 But even with all that, government and business officials from the West meeting here this week said, the United States may have too many vulnerable targets and not enough money to assure absolute protection. In addition, many said that unless the new Department of Homeland Security works with state and local governments as well as private industries, any defense will prove porous and ineffective. 
 "We are fighting a networked enemy," said Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, using computer metaphors to make his point. "If we use a mainframe response, we will lose, and the job will fail. We have to have an integrated function with everything we do." 
National security issues were the major focus of a conference here on Thursday, sponsored by the federal Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office, a 3-year-old unit of the Commerce Department that is to become part of Homeland Security, and were also among several subjects discussed at a meeting today of the Western Governors' Association. The overall theme was "Are We Ready?" and the answer seemed to be, "Well, sort of."
Reflecting on the need to thwart attacks on targets that whose destruction would disrupt the nation's economy and psychological well-being, a senior Commerce Department official said that giant strides had been made since the Sept. 11 attacks, but that far more needed to be done.
"The challenges are enormous," said the official, Kenneth I. Juster. "The sheer number, pervasiveness and interconnected nature of our infrastructures create an almost infinite array of high-payoff targets for exploitation by terrorists."
The potential targets include ports, water systems, gas pipelines, freight yards, electrical power lines and the communication networks that link sectors of an industry.
G. William Frick, vice president of the American Petroleum Institute, a trade organization for gas and oil companies, said targets could include the industry's 150 refineries, 152,000 miles of oil pipelines, 194,000 miles of gas pipelines, 4,194 offshore refinery platforms, 100 ports that receive foreign oil, 10,800 bulk storage plants and 170,000 gas stations.
Richard K. Davidson, president and chief executive of the Union Pacific Corporation, the nation's largest rail company, said that any of its 7,000 locomotives, 116,000 freight cars or 33,000 miles of track in 23 states -- including routes over which hazardous materials are carried daily -- would make inviting targets. So, too, he said, would Bailey Yard, in North Platte, Neb., which is the world's largest freight train center, eight miles long and handling 10,000 railcars a day.
Recent bombings at nightclubs in Bali and a hotel in Kenya are more evidence that terrorist attacks can be as diverse as the imagination will allow, and Mr. Juster suggested that so-called soft targets, like movie theaters in Los Angeles or casinos in Las Vegas, might appeal to terrorists as "powerful symbols of the American way of life."
He cited the recent sniper attacks in the Washington metropolitan area as an example of how the fear of violence can have an impact far beyond the physical, forcing people to abandon their routines and causing psychological and economic damage.
"The targets of attack focus on our entire economy and our way of life," he said. "Security must become as integral a part of a company's strategic planning and operations as is marketing or product development." 
How such efforts would be organized and paid for at a time when all but five states are facing budget deficits was a question that went largely unanswered here.
Administration officials say the new department, with 170,000 employees and a first-year budget expected to be $35.5 billion, could take several years to organize. Even now, payments to some current antiterrorism programs, like $3.5 billion in grants to firefighters, police departments and emergency services, have been delayed because Congress did not pass this year's appropriation bills.
And while Mr. Leavitt and officials from other states implored federal authorities to consult with them in devising antiterrorist strategies, they conceded that they cannot afford the mounting costs of safeguards without help from Washington.
The departing governor of New Mexico, Gary E. Johnson, shrugged his shoulders. "We can't even afford our new Medicaid increases, and our reserves are projected to be down to 5 percent of the budget," he said. "How are we going to pay all these security costs?"
Jeff Morris, a Washington State lawmaker who helped develop security strategies for five states in the Pacific Northwest and nearby parts of Canada, said: "There is little financial support at the state level to get these activities together. Washington should be driving the conversation with money. I know Idaho, for example, does not have the resources to take on this effort."
Gov. Mike Johanns of Nebraska said security costs imposed on the 45 states with deficits would ultimately lead to cuts in other programs or tax increases. "If all of a sudden we needed $25 million over two years for security costs, that kind of money is not laying around," he said. "I'm confident it's not laying around the 44 other states, either." 
Officials from cities and counties said they were still feeling the financial pinch of stepped-up security efforts since the Sept. 11 attacks and fear that future federal money might not reach them or be enough if it does.
"Cities have been very disappointed in the Office of Homeland Security," Mary Poss, a Dallas City Council member and co-chairwoman of the domestic security task force at the National League of Cities, said of the agency that preceded the new cabinet department. "We're lobbying now to make sure we're included."
But some officials wondered if any amount of money would be enough, given the spectrum of possibilities.
"You can spend, spend, spend and still not have a risk-free situation," said Mr. Frick, the gas and oil official. "You cannot have guards on every foot of pipeline."
Terry M. Winter, president and chief executive of the California Independent System Operator, which manages electricity distribution in the state, said any security plan was likely to leave gaps.
"How far can you go protecting something from what you don't know?" he asked. "You just have to hope you don't get into a situation where you're not getting prepared because you don't have the money to do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Govs. Kenny Guinn, left, of Nevada and Michael O. Leavitt of Utah yesterday at the Western Governors' Association meeting in Las Vegas. Security and its financial costs were the main topics there. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); TRAINS (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (85%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (85%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (84%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRLINES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); GAS STATIONS (67%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (67%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US) 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; WESTERN GOVERNORS ASSN 

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (88%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); KENYA (79%) LAS VEGAS (NEV); NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



195 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Oil Markets Steady as Venezuelan Strike Unfolds 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Oil prices slipped slightly yesterday as traders and analysts sought to gauge the fallout from oil workers' joining a general strike against the government of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 The strike, which has already disrupted production and shipments by Venezuela's oil company, comes when stocks of oil, especially the types refined into home heating oil, are relatively low. 
 In addition, Iraq is facing a deadline this weekend to declare any weapons of mass destruction it still holds, which could set the stage for a war and raise concerns about the supply of oil from the Middle East. 
Still, the price of oil for January delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 36 cents yesterday, to $26.93 a barrel. It is up 4 cents since Monday, when the strike began. 
"We are not facing a crisis but, on the other hand, it is uncomfortable," said John H. Lichtblau, chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-financed policy group in New York.
The president of the state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, said production had been reduced because of the strike. 
The company invoked force majeure, a provision relating to events out of its control, to interrupt some delivery contracts.
The restrained response in the price shows that many traders and analysts "think it is going to go away," said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Alaron Trading in Chicago. "The last coup was two days," he said, referring to a two-day ouster of Mr. Chavez in April.
But Mr. Flynn thinks a prolonged standoff could push oil prices higher, especially for gasoline. 
"It is potentially more damaging to the United States' economy than Iraq right now," he said. "If it goes on through this weekend, I think people are going to sit up and take notice and oil could be pushing $30 at the end of next week if it continues."
The United States imports 1.5 million barrels a day of crude oil and refined products, including gasoline, from Venezuela. That equals about 13 percent of total imports of crude oil and refined products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HEATING OIL (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); FUTURES (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); POLITICS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); SHIPMENTS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (56%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; STRIKES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%) NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



196 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Warns of a Crippled City If Subway and Bus Workers Strike 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
As New York City began to prepare for the possibility of a transit strike, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned yesterday that a strike would dangerously cripple the city and could even lead to deaths because emergency vehicles would be unable to navigate the gridlocked streets.
 "There would not be ambulances, fire trucks, police cars," he said yesterday on his weekly radio show. "Their response time would slow down dramatically because they couldn't get through traffic." 
 He added, sternly, "People will die because you cannot get the emergency vehicles where they want to be." 
In his strongest comments so far about the possibility of a strike, the mayor said that a walkout would be especially catastrophic for the city because of its fragile economy and because it is still trying to heal from the Sept. 11 terrorist attack.
With little more than a week remaining until the transit workers' contract expires, top city officials said they believed a strike was a real possibility and they were preparing a detailed battle plan that the mayor will announce next week. But yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg chose to focus on the chaos he believes a transit shutdown would wreak even with those preparations.
It would cost the city tens of millions of dollars in lost revenues and expenses, he said, and would lead to layoffs because businesses' holiday sales would be badly hurt. "The economy of the city would be devastated," the mayor said, adding that the city's poorest residents would suffer most because they are most dependent on mass transit.
His comments came a day after the Metropolitan Transportation Authority pointedly rejected calls by the Transport Workers Union for a 24 percent raise over the next three years. Instead, the authority proposed no raises next year and said that any wage increases after that would depend on significant work-rule concessions by the union to increase productivity.
Roger Toussaint, president of the union's Local 100, has made no pledge that the union will not strike. He had nonetheless sounded some conciliatory notes in the first days of the negotiations this month. But on Wednesday, he angrily called the authority's proposal, which came only 10 days before the contract is set to expire, an insult and an outrage. He said it appeared to him as if transit leaders were actually "trying to provoke a strike."
The authority's negotiators, in turn, said they had offered significant concessions on several issues important to the union, including sick-day rules, health care benefits and simplifying the transit system's complex disciplinary procedures. But they added that with the M.T.A. facing a deficit larger than $2 billion over the next two years and a fare increase on the horizon, they were simply unable to offer any significant raises.
On his radio show yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg underscored the dire economic condition of the city and state and sought to dampen not only the transit union's hope of more money, but that of other city unions as well.
"The economic reality today is different," he said. "There isn't any money for raises in the city's budget going forward, or in the M.T.A.'s budget going forward or in any municipality's budget."
"If we're going to pay people more, we have to find ways to generate the moneys to pay them through savings." 
He warned that if the transit union thought it could make that money appear by striking, it was wrong. "Nobody should make any mistake about it," he said. "The M.T.A. and the city will use every legal means to stop a strike."
Mr. Toussaint, the union's leader, declined to comment directly on the mayor's remarks yesterday. Instead, he invited Mr. Bloomberg to the bargaining table and urged him to help bring the two sides together.
As the negotiations intensify, city officials said yesterday that they were completing the details of a plan to help the city keep operating if the 34,000 subway and bus workers do walk off the job.
The most important part, they said, would be to control traffic by restricting many streets in Manhattan to private buses, cabs and emergency vehicles. The city, using the mayor's emergency powers, would also impose restrictions on bridges, tunnels and some highway lanes, limiting their use to cars with several people in them. The number of passengers to be required has not yet been decided, officials said.
More ferry routes would be started around the city. Long Island Rail Road would increase its service somewhat, though it would be unable to serve as a substitute for the subway at many stations in Queens because the small stations would be dangerously swamped with passengers during the rush hours, the officials said. Instead, some key stations would be designated for picking up city residents. Metro-North, officials said, would be able to run some shuttles during the day to help replace subway service.
The city said that it would not hire large numbers of private buses, as it did during the last strike threat in 1999, because it is no longer able to afford to pay for bus service it might end up not using. But some buses would be available.
As part of the plan, cabs would also be allowed to pick up multiple fares and livery cabs would be able to accept people hailing them on the streets, which they are now prohibited from doing. Officials said they have also begun working with large corporations, who are making plans to reserve buses and are seeking information on permits and special routes they could use to get their employees into Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); SICK LEAVE (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



197 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Fever of Pitches at End of a Close Senate Race in Louisiana 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney is on the phone to hunters. Barbara Bush is calling elderly voters. Rudolph W. Giuliani is calling swing voters. Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader and World War II veteran, is talking to veterans. Raymond L. Flynn, the former mayor of Boston and former United States ambassador to the Vatican, is on the phone to abortion opponents.
 This all-star cast has recorded messages that are being speed-dialed around Louisiana to prod voters to the polls on Saturday for Suzanne Haik Terrell, the formerly obscure state elections commissioner who has become the vessel for the White House's determination to finish its winning election season with a cherry on top. 
 Polls show the runoff, in which Ms. Terrell is trying to unseat Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a first-term Democrat, in a dead heat.
They also show that President Bush, who campaigned here on behalf of Ms. Terrell on Tuesday, increased her standing among voters and pushed her slightly ahead of Ms. Landrieu. If Ms. Terrell wins, she would become the first Republican senator from Louisiana since Reconstruction.
The question now is whether Ms. Terrell can keep that momentum going until the polls close at 8 p.m. Saturday. The White House and an array of allies -- Karen P. Hughes, the president's close adviser, campaigned with Ms. Terrell today -- are following the Republicans' now-famous "72-hour task force" get-out-the-vote plan to ensure that it does.
For Ms. Landrieu, the challenge is to inspire black voters to get to the polls. Trolling for votes on her behalf are student volunteers and union workers, including teachers, members of the building trades, dock workers and fire fighters. Donna Brazile, a longtime expert in Democratic get-out-the-vote efforts, is helping to organize that effort here while trying to wring money out of reliable Democratic donors for last-minute commercials.
If Senator Landrieu "can turn that base Democratic vote out, she definitely has a shot," said Wayne Parent, chairman of the political science department at Louisiana State University. "Terrell has the momentum and everyone knows that, but everyone also knows that Landrieu got 46 percent of the vote in the primary. I wouldn't write her off."
The turnout in that election on Nov. 5 was 44 percent. Forty percent of black voters turned out, while 48 percent of white voters did. Ms. Landrieu won 87 percent of the black vote and 30 percent of the white vote. In Louisiana, candidates who finished first on Nov. 5 but did not receive more than 50 percent of the vote have to face a runoff against the candidates who came in second.
Black voters have been cool to Ms. Landrieu in part because she did not help a black politician, Cleo Fields, in his race for governor and partly because, in an effort to hold on to white voters, she began this campaign emphasizing how much she has supported the president. She is closing it out emphasizing her "independence."
Inspiring black voters while not turning off whites is a tricky task. To reach blacks and low-income whites, she is emphasizing economic issues, highlighting what she calls a secret deal between the Bush administration and Mexico to allow more sugar imports in the United States, which could hurt the state's sugar industry. (Administration officials say there is no deal; Ms. Landrieu says they will not admit it until after the election.)
She is fighting for whites on the cultural front. With the Terrell campaign attacking her as too liberal, Ms. Landrieu is trying to highlight credentials that appeal to conservative whites, which include her support for various Second Amendment measures. Somewhat unnoticed in this race has been Ms. Landrieu's neutralization of the National Rifle Association. While the gun group is sending out mailings on behalf of Ms. Terrell, it is not campaigning against Ms. Landrieu, who supports immunity for gun manufacturers when guns are involved in crimes, and who has said she would vote to get rid of a ban on assault weapons.
The problem for Ms. Landrieu, said Ed Renwick, director of Loyola University's Institute of Politics, is that there is no natural Democratic majority in Louisiana. "A third of the voters are black, a third are Catholic and the rest are white Protestants," he said. "To get 51 percent, you have to put together disparate groups. If Suzie can get 70 percent of the whites, she can win without blacks. A Democrat can't do that."
Susan Howell, a political scientist at the University of New Orleans, said that there was a formula for figuring out how well a candidate must do among each group to win. "Assuming black turnout will be about 6 percent below white turnout, and assuming Mary gets 90 percent of the black vote, then she has to get 36 percent of the white vote to win," Ms. Howell said. "That's attainable."
Ms. Terrell has had an easier time bringing together Republicans, especially under the Bush banner. 
The party's "72-hour task force" plan, which started months ago, relies largely on identifying issues that matter to voters, adapting messages and messengers for those voters, and in the final 72 hours staying in touch with them and getting them to the polls. Voters and volunteers are culled from membership lists of groups of Christians, abortion opponents and hunters; donors are culled from White House donor lists.
The tactics worked brilliantly in Georgia, where Ralph Reed, the former head of the Christian Coalition who is now chairman of the Georgia Republican Party, engineered the defeat last month of Georgia's Democratic senator and governor. Mr. Reed was here earlier this week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Get-out-the-vote efforts have become the focus for the Republican, Suzanne Haik Terrell, left, and the Democratic incumbent, Mary L. Landrieu, in the Louisiana Senate election today. Black turnout is crucial for Ms. Landrieu; Ms. Terrell is concentrating on conservative whites. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETERANS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); VOLUNTEERS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); RELIGION (57%); ABORTION (56%) ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MARY LANDRIEU (90%); DICK CHENEY (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (88%) TERRELL, SUZANNE HAIK; LANDRIEU, MARY (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK; BUSH, BARBARA (MRS GEORGE BUSH); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (90%) LOUISIANA

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



198 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
O'Neill and Lindsey Ousted As Bush Seeks a New Team
President Bush, wrestling with a shaky economy and criticism that his administration projects a muddled message on how to respond, dismissed Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, left, and the director of his National Economic Council, Lawrence B. Lindsey.
 Administration officials conceded that Mr. O'Neill had lost the confidence of the markets and of White House officials, especially his initial champion, Vice President Dick Cheney. In coming months, as the White House rolls out a new tax plan, and other economic measures to show that the president is as focused on the economy as he is on terrorism, the officials said it was crucial that their team speak clearly and with one voice. Page A1. 

President Bush acknowledged that he could not ignore or escape the political peril of a weak economy. In ushering the leaders of his economic team out the door, Mr. Bush was making a deliberately dramatic if messily orchestrated statement that he now intends to focus on the issues that are closest to home for most Americans. News Analysis. A14.

I.B.M. to Buy Rational Software
I.B.M. increased its stake in the software business with the purchase of Rational Software for $2.1 billion in cash. C2.

Oil Markets Steady Despite Strike
Oil prices slipped to $26.93 a barrel as traders and analysts sought to gauge the fallout from the continuing strikes by oil workers against the government of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. The strikes, which have already disrupted production and shipments by Venezuela's oil company, come when stocks of oil, especially the types refined into home heating oil, are relatively low. A6.

Little Progress in Global Trade Talks
The new round of global trade negotiations, begun with great fanfare at Doha, Qatar, early this year, has bogged down, and trade diplomats are beginning to despair of making enough progress to justify holding an important interim conference scheduled for Cancun, Mexico, next year. The deadline of January 2005 for completing the whole round of talks is also in danger of slipping. C3.

Chicago Mercantile Shares Up 22%
Shares of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings, the first major United States financial exchange to go public, rose 22 percent, to $42.90. The exchange raised $166.3 million through the sale of 4.75 million shares. The offering was priced at $35, above the initial expected range of $31 to $34. C4.

Shares End Lower for the Week
The Nasdaq composite index gained 11.69 points, to close at 1,422.44, but was down 3.8 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 22.49 points, to 8,645.77, after a five-day loss of 308 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.68 points, to 912.23, and lost 2.6 percent for the week. C4.

Credit Agricole Raises Bank Stake
Credit Agricole widened its stake in Credit Lyonnais to 12.2 percent from 10.5 percent in an effort to thwart a bid by its rival, BNP Paribas. Last month, BNP Paribas bid 2.2 billion euros ($2.2 billion) to acquire the stake owned by the French government in Credit Lyonnais, France's sixth-largest bank. C3.

Biotech Company Is Fined $3 Million
ProdiGene, a biotechnology company, was ordered to pay more than $3 million to the Department of Agriculture for failing to control test plots of gene-altered crops that threatened to contaminate the food supply. C2.

Two Merrill Managers Are Leaving
Paul Roy and Michael Marks are leaving Merrill Lynch, the latest senior managers to depart in E. Stanley O'Neal's first week as chief executive. Mr. O'Neal is overhauling management, a move he started when he became president 14 months ago. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,645.77 up 22.49Nasdaq composite -- 1,422.44 up 11.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.09% down 0.04The euro -- $1.0009 Unch.The dollar -- 123.69 yen down 1.25 Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite daily closings from January 2002 through the present. Yesterday: 1,422.44 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); SHIPMENTS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); HEATING OIL (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TERRORISM (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (64%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); QATAR (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



199 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE TREASURY: THE CONTEXT; 
Paying a Price for a Shaky Economy

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
After triumphing in the midterm elections largely on the strength of his performance as commander in chief, President Bush signaled today that not even a popular wartime president can ignore or escape the political peril of a weak economy.
 In ushering the leaders of his economic team out the door, Mr. Bush was making a deliberately dramatic if messily orchestrated statement that he now intends to focus on the issues that are closest to home for most Americans even as he leads the nation toward a showdown with Iraq. 
 "The economic news is mixed and the American public is concerned," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "This is the administration's way of saying, we hear you and we're doing something about it." 
But the changes seem likely to be limited to personnel rather than extending to a rethinking of the president's philosophy of lower taxes, less regulation and more trade. The departures of Paul H. O'Neill as treasury secretary and Lawrence B. Lindsey as chief White House economic policy adviser had less to do with a desire to change policy in the face of a troubled economic outlook than with a need to shed the considerable baggage taken on by the two men. A fresh team, administration officials said, should be better able to sell the president's pre-existing agenda. 
"This is more about perception than about policy," said Thomas D. Gallagher, a political analyst at ISI Group, an investment firm. "It's about putting a better face on the economic policy rather than on changing it."
Still, the move held considerable risks for Mr. Bush. Democrats, who failed to make an effective case in the campaign as to why the president and his party should be held accountable for the economy's sluggishness, immediately cast the departures as an admission of failure by the White House and stepped up their efforts to portray Mr. Bush as the enemy of the working family. 
"I hope this represents an acknowledgment by the president that his administration's policies have failed to produce economic growth and create new jobs," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York. "President Bush calls himself a compassionate conservative, but his actions on the economy seem more like indifference than compassion."
Republicans on Capitol Hill fretted that the resignations would complicate efforts to roll out a short-term economic stimulus plan in the next month and would undermine the administration's long-term plans to overhaul the tax code and remake the Social Security system. To the financial markets, the creation of a vacuum in economic leadership, however temporary, was one more thing to worry about.
But in some ways, Mr. Bush had little choice. Two years into his term and with his party assuming control of both chambers in Congress, political responsibility for the economy rests squarely with Mr. Bush. 
Since taking office nearly two years ago, Mr. Bush has effectively and with varying degrees of justification blamed last year's recession and the sluggish recovery on the bubble economy of the 1990's, his predecessor, Senate Democrats the terrorist attacks.
But he has also gotten all his major economic initiatives passed, including last year's tax cut, and is likely to win Congressional approval for new measures next year. Having prescribed and dispensed the economic medicine, Mr. Bush cannot easily blame weak vital signs on anyone else.
The patient, however, is not responding in the way the White House had hoped or expected. 
The unemployment rate rose to 6 percent in November from 5.7 percent a month earlier. The stock market, which rose after the resignations were announced this morning, remains jittery. Administration officials are concerned that a war with Iraq, especially if it drags on, will upset oil markets and undermine consumer and business confidence. 
"At this point, the president is so enormously popular that the only thing that can derail the George W. Bush express is a recession or something going catastrophically wrong in the war," said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee. "This was a precautionary measure. He was saying to himself, we've got to make sure the economy performs, and it's time to bring in some new people."
It has become almost a political cliche in Washington to talk about how the current president learned from the mistakes of his father. The senior Bush was defeated for re-election a decade ago in part because he allowed himself to be portrayed by Democrats as out of touch with the economic concerns of working people. In campaign appearances all this year, the current president has stressed that he will not be satisfied until every American who wants a job can get one.
But in announcing the resignations of Mr. O'Neill and Mr. Lindsey, the White House steadfastly denied any suggestion that the change was an admission that economic policy was anything less than it should be. And in making the shift, the president did not betray any preference for one policy approach over another. Mr. O'Neill and Mr. Lindsey, in fact, often found themselves at odds, with the treasury secretary concluding that the economy was basically in good shape and in need of little new fiscal stimulus, and Mr. Lindsey more focused on the economic risks and more willing to consider aggressive tax cuts.
After months of debate, Mr. Lindsey and Mr. O'Neill left on Mr. Bush's desk a set of options for a short-term economic agenda that the White House could still unveil within weeks.
In addition to Mr. Bush's longstanding call to make permanent last year's 10-year tax cut, the two main parts of the proposal are a reduction in the tax on stock dividends paid by individuals and a tax break for businesses in the form of a change in the way companies write off investments they make in new equipment. It could also include speeding up the individual income tax cuts that are scheduled to phase in over the next few years under last year's tax bill.
Mr. Bush has not yet signed off on the package, and many details remain to be worked out. But outside advisers to the administration say little is likely to change in the basics of the package no matter who replaces Mr. O'Neill and Mr. Lindsey.
"I don't mean to sound callous, but from a policy perspective I don't care about Larry Lindsey or Secretary O'Neill leaving," said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative advocacy group. "It doesn't matter in terms of where policy is heading. There is unanimity on where Republicans want to go on tax policy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TAX REFORM (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TAXATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL (SEC); LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 



200 of 988 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Young Stars of U.S. Fashion Can't Seem to Find Right Fit 

BYLINE:  By CATHY HORYN 

 BODY:
After designing surfer shorts and hibiscus-print tops, and T-shirts emblazoned with slogans like "Butch Buddha" for spring, John Bartlett became part of the latest American fashion trend: he closed his business.
 Young American designers like Mr. Bartlett are hitting an impasse, unable to penetrate the consciousness of consumers. In the last decade, no new American talent has shown the staying power needed to be the next Calvin Klein, Donna Karan or Ralph Lauren, whose brands generate billions of dollars in sales from products ranging from $6,000 suits to $6.50 cotton briefs. 
 Since 1998, when Isaac Mizrahi closed his doors, a succession of promising stars have gone out of business -- Daryl Kerrigan, Pamela Dennis, Todd Oldham and last month, Mr. Bartlett, who in 1997 was the industry's top men's wear designer. 
Without younger creative talent to replace aging stars, whose customers are also aging, the American fashion industry is in danger of losing the next generation of shoppers, experts say. 
"The lifeblood of this industry is new ideas," said Allen Questrom, the former chief executive of Barneys New York and now C.E.O. of J. C. Penney. "If we don't support the young people coming along, we're going to have a dead market."
Industry experts say the problems that thwarted them, including a shortage of capital and an increasingly unresponsive consumer, make it doubtful that the latest runway comets, Zac Posen and Miguel Adrover, will succeed in the long run.
"The reality is that it's more than difficult, it's unlikely," said Arnold Cohen, a senior partner in Mahoney Cohen, an accounting firm for about 200 fashion and apparel makers. 
Standing in their way is a surge of competition from discounters and the popularity of defiantly casual clothes by nondesigners, like the rap star Sean Combs, whose Sean Jean label has estimated sales of $100 million annually. Juicy Couture, a line of sweat pants and tops, is a big hit with models and socialites. "We can't keep the stuff in the store," said a Fifth Avenue merchant who is better known for selling $3,000 Chanel suits. "I guess, at the moment, $100 sweat pants are what people find fashionable."
What experts find alarming is that young people are entering fashion in astonishing numbers without questioning whether the Seventh Avenue powerhouse formula of the last 40 years is obsolete. "We'll never see another Ralph Lauren," said Allan Ellinger, whose firm, MMG, provides management advice to the industry. "It takes too long and too much money to get there."
If so, analysts say, it will severely limit America's ability to compete with large European brands, which have been aggressively developing new talents like Stella McCartney. 
Designers like Mr. Lauren, whose success came gradually, could once count on selling upper-class ideals to status-seeking consumers. But their preserve has been eroded as good design has become more widely available, and because upstart chains like Zara, based in Spain, can quickly duplicate the latest runway styles at low cost. 
"It took Pierre Cardin 30 years to go from couture to Wal-Mart, and Mossimo three years to become a Target brand," said Todd Slater, an apparel analyst at Lazard, the investment bank. "It now takes six nanoseconds for a brand to go from class to mass." 
In terms of dollars, the closing of Mr. Bartlett's 10-year-old business -- which at its peak had annual sales of $6 million -- scarcely represents a loss to the $142 billion industry. But in terms of the industry's ability to regenerate itself creatively, the loss of another promising star is seen by many as significant. 
Fashion has always been an optimistic undertaking, shaped by innovators as well as entrepreneurs. Both Mr. Lauren and Mr. Klein, Bronx natives, each started their businesses in the late 1960's with $10,000, and Mr. Lauren had the audacity to market his clothes around worlds he knew little about -- cowboys and English aristocrats.
But executives wonder if the new crop possesses the same entrepreneurial vision -- or the discipline to carry it out. Many executives believe that young American designers just aren't making relevant clothes. "A lot of these guys and gals want to get press coverage, but they're ignoring the fact that the big spenders are over 40 and want wearable clothes," Mr. Questrom said. "Even John Bartlett wasn't relevant." 
Mr. Bartlett, 39, acknowledged that, as with many young designers, his prestige had exceeded his revenues. He said he had believed that if he staged exciting runway shows and won media attention, he would one day have a successful brand. "So many of us are just riding on smoke and mirrors, hoping that the next season a sugar daddy will be sitting in the audience," he said.
Retailers say they yearn for new American stars to entice younger shoppers. "In our meetings, we're constantly saying, 'Where's the next Calvin?' " a department store executive said. 
Increasingly, the sugar daddies are luxury companies, many of them European, which can guarantee profit margins as an incentive to department stores to carry their newer talents. At the same time, stores are seeing tremendous growth from trendy, less expensive, anonymously designed labels like Theory.
"The American consumer is very different than 10 years ago," said Christina Johnson, the C.E.O. of Saks Fifth Avenue. "She's very fashion-involved, but she doesn't want to spend what she used to."
Loaded up on information -- from shopping magazines like Lucky to shopping networks like QVC to celebrity shopping tips in In Style magazine -- the consumer is also savvier. 
"She's buying things from Prada and H&M," said Candace Corlett, a partner in WSL Strategic Retail, a company that monitors buying habits. "The challenge to high-end designers is terrific, because there isn't this priority of 'I must have the designer look.' Loyalty is about 'What's good for me?' "
As it is, at least two Seventh Avenue giants are in flux. Mr. Klein, 60, and his partner, Barry Schwartz, are reported to be in negotiations to sell their company. Mr. Klein's brand generates an estimated $3 billion in retail sales, mainly through licensed products. And Ms. Karan, 54, after drifting away from her original formula, is trying to recharge her brand under its new owner, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton.
Retailers worry that even if newcomers like Mr. Posen, the subject of flattering articles, can weather routine business woes like cash shortages and delivery delays, they will probably have to scale back their expectations. 
"If some of them end up having only a $10 million or $20 million business, maybe that's as good as it gets," said Julie Gilhart, the fashion director at Barneys New York. 
Lately, young designers have expressed a slightly disingenuous scorn for big brands and their homogenous look. "There's too much sameness," Mr. Adrover said. But even if they adopt an antibranding attitude, as the London chain Topshop has in ads featuring a young model in mismatched clothes, retailers say it still takes millions of dollars to promote that image. Mr. Adrover, who staged a comeback show in September, has not found a backer, making it doubtful he will have clothes in stores next spring.
During the most recent round of New York shows, some 25 new designers presented collections, the largest group in years. The challenge is how to support them when the economic conditions that favored the older generation no longer exist. 
Department stores, once exciting places to socialize as well as shop, contributed to the success of older designers. "Calvin Klein happened for a reason, as did Ralph Lauren," Mr. Ellinger said. "They're mainly department store brands." 
But fewer dollars are being spent in department stores, which face intense competition from discounters, specialty chains like Express and designers' own boutiques. According to Mr. Ellinger, the total amount of dollars spent in department stores for all products has declined from 35 percent in 1990 to just under 17 percent. And retailers say they cannot afford to carry an underperforming designer beyond two seasons.
Nora Lowinsky, 20, an actress in Manhattan, mirrors the disarray of modern dressing -- part flea market, part luxury trappings. On Tuesday, outside the Club Monaco boutique in SoHo, she said she pays close attention to what designers show. "But I don't necessarily buy the Prada jacket," said Ms. Lowinsky, who was dressed in a vintage shearling coat and knee-high moccasins. "If I like it, I'll buy the cheaper version at H&M or Century 21."
The older generation could also count on exploiting their names through licensing. Polo Ralph Lauren had revenues of $2.3 billion for its latest fiscal year. But more significantly, the brand generates some $5 billion in retail sales from licensed products like bed sheets and sunglasses. The pattern now, initiated by Gucci, is to eliminate licenses and more rigorously control product and distribution.
European luxury groups have aggressively taken the lead in developing new talent -- particularly because, as public companies, they have to show shareholders a means of growth. Gucci has built a stable that includes Alexander McQueen and Ms. McCartney, giving them managerial support. LVMH has pursued a similar strategy with John Galliano, Michael Kors and Mr. Jacobs.
Indeed, fashion executives say, without LVMH capital Mr. Kors and Mr. Jacobs, both Americans, would not be able to shoulder the costs of expanding their businesses as effectively as they have in recent years, with accessories, spinoff labels and their own stores. 
American retailers are not ignoring young talent, but their efforts often have a flavor-of-the-month quality.
This fall stores like Barneys and Bergdorf Goodman competed fiercely to get Proenza Schouler, a new label, whose designers, Jack McCollough and Lazaro Hernandez, had just graduated from design school. 
And Neiman Marcus picked up Mr. Posen's playful spring line, helping to bring the total number of garments he sold for the season to 900, a threefold increase over fall. Although the number is tiny -- a moderate-size company like Nicole Miller sells 100,000 units a year -- there are still risks for stores anointing young talent so quickly.
Ed Burstell, general manager at Henri Bendel, a showplace for new talent, has received garments without armholes and with zippers sewn in sideways by celebrated but technically inexperienced designers. 
"Do we make money with young designers?" he said with a sigh. "If the sun and the moon are in alignment, and I'm not on the phone looking for a sewing machine, then -- yeah, there's some money to be made."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Bartlett, all smiles at a 1997 show, closed his doors last month. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. A1); As models applauded, Isaac Mizrahi took a bow at a fashion show in 1997; he went out of business a year later. Among the other young American designers who have shut down their design businesses in recent years is Todd Oldham, who in a triumphant moment in 1994 was escorted down the runway by the model Cindy Crawford. Two more dropouts: Pamela Dennis and Daryl Kerrigan. (Photographs by Associated Press); (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RAP MUSIC (62%) APPAREL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING 

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (77%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (50%) BARTLETT, JOHN; HORYN, CATHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002 

 
