

201 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: More Young Americans Out of High School Are Also Out of Work

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
For this generation of young people, the future looks bleak. Only one in six is working full time. Three out of five live with their parents or other relatives. A large majority -- 73 percent -- think they need more education to find a successful career, but only half of those say they will definitely enroll in the next few years.
No, they are not the idle youth of Greece or Spain or Egypt. They are the youth of America, the world's richest country, who do not have college degrees and aren't getting them anytime soon. 
Whatever the sob stories about recent college graduates spinning their wheels as baristas or clerks, the situation for their less-educated peers is far worse, according to a report from the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University scheduled to be released on Wednesday. The data comes from a national survey of high school graduates who are not enrolled in college full time, a notoriously transient population that social scientists and other experts had been having trouble tracking. (In the two months since the survey was conducted, a large share of participants have had their phone numbers disconnected and could not be reached.)
For this group, finding work that pays a living wage and offers some sense of security has been elusive.
''I want more money, and I really don't like what I do,'' said Walter Walden, 24, of Wenatchee, Wash., one of the lucky members of this group who has a full-time job, in this case, at a restaurant. ''I had to go back to school.'' He now lives with his mother so he can take nursing classes part time.
Workers just a few years younger than Mr. Walden have been thrust into a daunting combination of a temporarily feeble economy and the longer-term elimination of traditional middle-class jobs.
Americans who graduated from high school just before layoffs started to swell -- in this report, defined as 2006-8 -- were having trouble making ends meet. Just 37 percent employed were full time and another 23 percent were working part time, usually because they could not find full-time work.
But among those who graduated after the financial crisis, the numbers are far worse: only 16 percent of the classes of 2009-11 had full-time jobs. An additional 22 percent were working part time, and most of them wanted full-time work.
Despite the continuing national conversation about whether college is worth it given the debt burden it entails, most high school graduates without college degrees said they believed they would be unable to get good jobs without more education.
''If I ever want to get out of retail,'' said Bethany McClour, 21, a part-time worker at The Children's Place clothing store in Medford, Ore., ''more education is definitely important.''
Getting it is challenging, though, and not only because of formidable debt levels.
Ms. McClour and her husband, Andy, have two daughters under 3 and another due next month. She said she tried enrolling in college classes, but the workload became too stressful with such young children. Mr. McClour works at a gas station. He hates his work and wants to study phlebotomy, but the nearest school is an hour and a half away.
''My mother is my day care,'' Ms. McClour said. ''We can't move that far away.''
Others surveyed said college was out of reach because of the cost or family responsibilities.
Many of these young people had been expecting to go to college since they started high school, perhaps anticipating that employers would demand skills high schools do not teach. Just one in 10 high school graduates without college degrees said they were ''extremely well prepared by their high school to succeed in their job after graduation.''
These young people worried about getting left behind and were pessimistic about reaching some of the milestones that make up the American dream.
More than half -- 56 percent -- of high school graduates without college diplomas said that their generation would have less financial success than their parents. By contrast, just 14 percent said they expected to do better than their parents. (Another study from the Heldrich Center found that recent college graduates were similarly pessimistic about whether their generation would surpass that of their parents.)
Many young people were just struggling to keep up with their parents.
When he graduated from high school last year, Harley Sproud, 18, started working for the same construction company that employed his father. A few months later, when the company ran into financial trouble, he was let go.
''Thank God I had a buddy at Burger King who could help me out,'' said Mr. Sproud, of Advance, N.C.
The frying-and-cleanup job did not exactly make full use of the skills he learned last fall in a nine-week culinary class, but it was the best opportunity he could find. He is now recovering from a car accident -- which required him to move back in with his parents, both for financial and medical reasons -- and is hoping to return to Burger King next month.
Like Mr. Sproud, many graduates are finding it difficult to track into their desired lines of work. Among the group of high school graduates surveyed by the Heldrich Center, just over half (56 percent) said they believed they would find a ''job that leads to a career'' within the ''next few years.''
About the same share believed they would find work that offered health insurance within that time frame. Slightly less than half of respondents said the next few years would bring work with good job security or a job with earnings that were high ''enough to lead a comfortable life.'' They were similarly pessimistic about being able to start a family or buy a home.
The survey was conducted between March 21 and April 2, and covered a nationally representative survey of 544 high school graduates from the classes of 2006-11 who did not have bachelor's degrees. The margin of error was 4.5 percentage points.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: High school students filling out job applications. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 The survey found that 16 percent of the classes of 2009-11 had full-time jobs. Graduates at Joplin High School in Missouri. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHARTS: Harder Times for High School Graduates: Those who graduated from high school but do not have a college degree have found it more difficult to find work in recent years. (Source: Rutgers University) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



202 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Gives Regards ($11.2 Billion) to City

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
The Broadway industry helped generate $11.2 billion in spending by New York City tourists, theater owners and producers during the 2010-11 theater season, a 9 percent increase over the dollar amount in a comparable economic impact study two years earlier, according to the Broadway League trade association of producers. 
The $11.2 billion included $8.95 billion in purchases by tourists from outside New York City who said that Broadway was a ''very important reason'' for their visit; $2.2 billion in expenses to mount and run Broadway shows; and $22.3 million in spending to renovate or refurbish some of the 40 Broadway theaters. Based on those figures Broadway helped generate $550 million in taxes to New York City during the 2010-11 season and support 86,000 jobs.
The Broadway League conducts the economic study every two years; in the last report, which analyzed the 2008-9 theater season, Broadway took credit for generating a total of $10.3 billion. Among the big-budget new musicals on Broadway during the 2010-11 season were the record-setting $75 million ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark'' as well as ''The Book of Mormon,'' ''Wonderland,'' ''Priscilla Queen of the Desert,'' ''Catch Me If You Can'' and ''Sister Act.'' Premium-ticket prices also increased in dollar amount or quantity for several shows between 2008-9 and 2010-11.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



203 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Waddling Into the Sunset

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif.
THE countdown to foie-mageddon has begun.
With less than a month until California's first-in-the nation ban on foie gras takes effect, fans of the fattened duck and goose liver are buying out stocks of the delicacy, searching for legal loopholes and sating themselves at a series of foie-heavy goodbyes.
''We want to get our fill before it's gone,'' said Terrance L. Stinnett, a lawyer from Alamo, Calif., who attended a farewell lunch here recently. ''This is a wake.''
July 1 is the start date of the hotly debated and divisive ban, which prohibits the sale of any product derived from the force-feeding of birds to enlarge their livers -- the most common way to mass-produce foie gras. . (The law was passed in 2004, but included a seven-and-a-half-year grace period.) 
As the deadline approaches, some of the best-known chefs in California -- including Thomas Keller, Gary Danko and Michael Mina -- have been mounting a repeal effort and promising new ethical standards. But they are also making practical preparations for the likelihood that they won't be able to overturn the law before it takes effect. Even opponents of the ban say going to bat for high-priced foie gras, after all, isn't exactly an easy political stance in an age of animal rights and fiscal austerity.
So how will chefs replace foie gras, with its butter-soft texture and rich, subtle taste? The short answer, they say, is that they can't, and the sense of loss is palpable.
''It's unlike any other animal product that I know of,'' said Jon Shook, an owner of Animal, a meat lovers' paradise in Los Angeles where foie gras regularly appears in sauces, as a torchon and in other forms. ''We're working on dishes to replace it, but you can never really replace foie gras.''
That sentiment was echoed by Michael Ginor, an owner of Hudson Valley Foie Gras in Ferndale, N.Y., who likened it to delicious Play-Doh.
''You can shape it into anything you want,'' he said. ''You can saute it, you can serve it cold, you can serve it hot, you can cook it at high heat.''
You get the idea. The menu at an April lunch at the Pebble Beach Food and Wine festival was indicative of the product's versatility across land and sea, entree and dessert. Prepared by several opponents of the ban, the meal featured oysters and raw foie gras; lobster and foie gras noodles (created by squeezing liquid foie gras into a broth); beef tenderloin with seared foie gras and a foie gras emulsion, and vanilla and foie gras creme brulee.
As that suggests, foie gras is not for the weak of heart or the high of cholesterol. Mr. Ginor said that ducks are much more commonly used today because geese are more labor intensive, more susceptible to disease and temperamental, all factors that make the ducks ''more economically sensible'' to use, though some believe the taste of goose foie gras is more delicate.
Casey Lane, the chef at the Tasting Kitchen in Los Angeles, said his restaurant almost never serves a portion of foie gras smaller than six to seven ounces, making the dish ''a genuine indulgence.'' He might counter the dish's richness with the sweetness and acidity of a peak-of-the-season apple.
''It's like having the trump card year round,'' he said.
He, too, bemoaned its loss. ''The people that build Porsches, you don't want your gasoline taken away from you,'' he said. ''You're trying to work at the top of your field.''
Beyond the kitchen, there are other responses in the works, including whispers of culinary civil disobedience, in which restaurateurs would continue to serve the dish -- and risk fines of up to $1,000 per violation. Others have suggested that they could skirt the law by offering the foie gras free (with $20 glasses of wine).
The end result, however, will likely be very little, if any, foie anywhere in California. And that disheartens people like Greg Daniels, who runs the Haven Gastropub in Pasadena, Calif., and worries about the state's culinary reputation. ''How seriously can you take our culinary efforts when we can't even use this product that's being used everywhere?'' he said.
Mr. Daniels warned that the foie gras ban could also limit access to other duck-based dishes, including duck confit and duck-fat French fries. ''Even if you can get duck fat, it's probably going to be too expensive for you to fill up a fryer with it,'' he said.
But such concerns have done little to sway the law's supporters, who see the ban as a victory for humane treatment of animals.
John Burton, the former California legislator who drafted the law, has shot back at the chefs, likening the tradition of foie gras (which dates back centuries) to waterboarding and female genital mutilation.
''Why don't you tell those chefs to have a duck cram a lot of food down their gullets and see how they like it?'' he asked.
Such passions are not so surprising. Food fights have become increasingly common in statehouses and at kitchen counters alike, as new generations of chefs and their customers drift toward more animal-friendly products and methods of production. Indeed, opponents of the ban argue that factory farming -- not foie gras, which has just two producers in the United States -- is a much more serious issue in terms of public health and humane treatment of animals.
That view was shared by Michael Pollan, the author of ''In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto,'' whose examinations of the modern food chain have placed him on the front lines of many battles over what is on the menu. Even though he is not much of a foie gras eater, he does not see the point of the ban.
''I think it's really a way for people to feel like they've done something without doing anything,'' he said. ''There's so many more serious problems we're not dealing with.''
But as the Humane Society of the United States points out, many states are moving toward more protections for farm animals, including veal cows, hens and feedlot cattle and pigs. At least two other states, New York and Hawaii, have considered bans on foie gras.
''California is leading,'' said Wayne Pacelle, the society's president and chief executive. ''But it's not alone.''
Mr. Pacelle rejected the idea that animal rights activists were singling out a small industry rather than taking on bigger fish. ''The notion that we're picking on foie gras is soft,'' he said. ''There's nobody that takes on big agriculture businesses like we do. And foie gras is just cruelty for a table treat.''
It remains unclear exactly how painful force feeding (known as gavage) is. The Humane Society says that the process can cause bruises, lacerations and sores, and that the ducks' livers may grow to 10 times their normal size.
The American Veterinary Medical Association says that that is true, though ducks' livers also naturally fluctuate seasonally, but not to such extremes as those of force-fed birds. The association says it is difficult to say how much pain the animals are in when tubes are in place, though it also says that ''force feeding overrides animal preference.''
David Kinch, the acclaimed chef at Manresa in Los Gatos, Calif., who opposes the ban, said part of the problem with the ban's logic was that its supporters had mistakenly anthropomorphized the ducks' experience of being force fed. ''They imagine a tube being shoved down their human throat,'' he said. Rather, he said, ducks have no gag reflex, nor are geese as cuddly as they appear.
''They are the nastiest animals on the planet,'' Mr. Kinch said. ''They are guard dogs in France.''
The group fighting the ban, the Coalition for Humane and Ethical Farming Standards (or CHEFS), has suggested a variety of measures that might make gavage more appetizing, including hand feeding, cage-free birds and regular inspections by animal welfare officers.
None of those seemed to sway animal rights supporters like Bryan Pease, of the Animal Protection and Rescue League in San Diego, who called the chefs' efforts ''false and disingenuous.''
''All the ducks are already hand fed,'' he said. ''They're hand fed because that's the only way to force a tube down their throat.''
Nor was that sort of image likely to sway foie gras aficionados like Mr. Stinnett and his wife, Annette, who spent $200 each to eat seven courses of foie gras in Pebble Beach. They said the ban had already foiled their plans for Mr. Stinnett's birthday in July: Ms. Stinnett said she had tried to bribe a local chef to set some foie gras aside, but no luck.
''I said, 'Will $500 find me some foie gras?' '' Ms. Stinnett said. ''They said no. He doesn't want to take a chance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (D1): LAST CALL: At the foie gras farewell in Pebble Beach: top left, Chris Cosentino, right, and Daniel Alvarez of Incanto restaurant smoke squab and foie gras in hay (being served, above right). Top right, the chef Michael Ginor, left, and Mr. Alvarez. Above, from left, shaving foie gras onto oysters and serving lunch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TAKING A STAND Pickets at a Santa Monica, Calif., restaurant. Inside, the chef Mark Dommen readies foie gras dishes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



204 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Governor Wins Wisconsin Vote In Recall Drive

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and JEFF ZELENY; Monica Davey reported from Waukesha, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington. Steven Yaccino contributed reporting from Waukesha. Marjorie Connelly, Dalia Sussman and Allison Kopicki contributed research from New York.

 BODY:
WAUKESHA, Wis. -- Gov. Scott Walker, whose decision to cut collective bargaining rights for most public workers set off a firestorm in a state usually known for its political civility, easily held on to his job on Tuesday, becoming the first governor in the country to survive a recall election and dealing a painful blow to Democrats and labor unions.
With 53 percent of the vote, Mr. Walker soundly defeated Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, the Democrats' nominee in the recall attempt, who had 46 percent, with most precincts across the state reporting results. The victory by Mr. Walker, a Republican who was forced into an election to save his job less than two years into his first term, ensures that Republicans largely retain control of this state's capital, and his fast-rising political profile is likely to soar still higher among conservatives.
Here in Waukesha, some Republican voters said the result ended the most volatile partisan fight in memory, one that boiled over 16 months ago in the collective bargaining battle and expanded into scuffles about spending, jobs, taxes, the role and size of government, and more. Democrats, some of whom are already pledging to mount strong challenges for state lawmakers' seats in November, seemed less sure about the meaning of Mr. Walker's victory. 
''Tonight, we tell Wisconsin, we tell our country and we tell people all across the globe that voters really do want leaders who stand up and make the tough decisions,'' Mr. Walker said, delivering a victory speech to supporters here. ''But now it is time to move on and move forward in Wisconsin.''
In his concession speech in Milwaukee, Mr. Barrett said: ''We are a state that has been deeply divided. It is up to all of us -- our side and their side -- to listen, to listen to each other.''
The result raised broader questions about the strength of labor groups, who had called hundreds of thousands of voters and knocked on thousands of doors. The outcome also seemed likely to embolden leaders in other states who have considered limits to unions as a way to solve budget problems, but had watched the backlash against Mr. Walker with worry.
Some Republicans said they considered Mr. Walker's victory one indication that Wisconsin, which President Obama won easily in 2008 and which Democrats have carried in every presidential election since 1988, may be worth battling for this time.
''Obviously, Scott Walker winning tonight means that the Republicans are here for real,'' said Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee. ''Conservatives are here for real.'' Mr. Priebus was attending Mr. Walker's victory party at the Waukesha County Exposition Center, where ''We Stand With Walker'' signs were all around.
But even with the Republican victory on Tuesday, it remained an open question whether Mitt Romney, the party's presidential nominee, can assume the momentum of Mr. Walker's campaign. In exit polling of voters, 18 percent of Walker supporters said they favored Mr. Obama, and the president led in a matchup against Mr. Romney. Voters in the exit surveys also said they saw Mr. Obama as better equipped to improve the economy and help the middle class.
Republicans prevailed in at least four recall elections on Tuesday for other offices, including a race for lieutenant governor, which the incumbent, Rebecca Kleefisch, won. Scott Fitzgerald, the State Senate's majority leader, who had ushered much of Mr. Walker's agenda through the Legislature, also survived. Early Wednesday, unofficial returns showed a Democrat ahead by fewer than 800 votes in a State Senate race in Racine, and Democrats were claiming narrow control of the chamber, though a recount also appeared possible.
Mr. Walker, who raised millions of dollars from conservative donors outside the state, had a strong financial advantage, in part because a quirk in state law allowed him months of unlimited fund-raising, from the time the recall challenge was mounted to when the election was officially called. As of late last month, about $45.6 million had been spent on behalf of Mr. Walker, compared with about $17.9 million for Mr. Barrett, according to data from the Wisconsin Democracy Campaign, a nonpartisan group that tracks spending.
''What it shows is the peril of corporate dollars in an election and the dangers of Citizens United,'' said Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association, a school workers' union, referring to the 2010 Supreme Court decision that barred the federal government from restricting political expenditures from corporations, unions and other groups.
Voters went to the polls in droves -- more than 2.5 million votes were cast -- and some polling places needed extra ballots brought in as long lines of people waited. One polling location was so swamped, state officials said, that it found itself using photocopied ballots, which later had to be hand-counted. The final flurry of television advertising -- with Mr. Walker outspending Mr. Barrett seven to one -- seemed to have little impact on the outcome. Nearly 9 in 10 people said they had made up their minds before May, according to exit poll interviews.
The recall race carried implications well beyond Wisconsin, particularly in the escalating fight between wealthy conservative donors and labor unions. Many Republican contributors from across the country who have invested millions in the presidential race also sent checks to Mr. Walker, hoping to inflict deep wounds on organized labor, a key constituency for Democrats.
The outcome was also being closely monitored in Boston by Mr. Romney's campaign and in Chicago at Mr. Obama's re-election headquarters for a signal of how the electorate is viewing the big issues in the race for the White House. The president kept his distance from Wisconsin, to the dismay of many Democrats in the state, in an effort to avoid alienating independent voters he hopes to win over in the fall.
A snapshot of the Wisconsin electorate, gleaned through surveys with voters as they left the polls, found that a majority of men had supported Mr. Walker, while most women had voted for Mr. Barrett. Almost a fifth of the electorate was 65 or older, with only about one in 10 voters of college age. The recall race unfolded against a backdrop of economic uncertainty, with only 2 in 10 voters saying their family's finances have improved in the two years since Mr. Walker was elected. About a third said their financial situation had grown worse, and more than 4 in 10 said their finances had stayed the same.
The political war in Wisconsin began in February 2011 when Governor Walker, only weeks into his first term, announced that he needed to cut benefits and collective bargaining rights for most public workers as a way to solve an expected state budget deficit of $3.6 billion.
Tens of thousands of union supporters and Democrats protested in Madison, the capital, and the State Senate's Democrats -- who were a minority in the chamber but had enough members to prevent a quorum -- went into hiding in hotels and houses in Illinois to try, unsuccessfully, to prevent a vote on the measure.
By January, critics of Mr. Walker delivered more than 900,000 signatures on petitions to recall him, far more than the one-quarter of voters from the last election that state law requires.
The election, which cost local governments as much as $18 million to carry out, has raised another debate over the appropriateness of using a recall vote to remove officials.
''Recall was never meant to be used just because you don't like the way the other side is governing,'' said Jenny Beth Martin, a co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots, which made tens of thousands of calls to voters in recent days in support of Mr. Walker.
Around the nation, numerous efforts have been made over the years to recall governors, but only three, including the push to remove Mr. Walker, met the requirements to place the matter on the ballot. In California, Gov. Gray Davis was removed in 2003, and in North Dakota, Gov. Lynn Frazier was recalled in 1921.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Voters really do want leaders who stand up and make the tough decisions,'' Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin said Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, conceding Tuesday night, told supporters: ''We are a state that has been deeply divided.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS) (A16) CHARTS: How the state's electorate and its preferences for Scott Walker and President Obama have changed since the elections for governor in 2010 and president in 2008. (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



205 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: In Other Races: Paying Back the Owner of a Triple Crown Hopeful

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
For more than a decade, J. Paul Reddam studied philosophy and then taught logic and ethics.
But in what probably rates as one of the more unorthodox career moves for a philosophy professor, Reddam, in the mid-1990s, started a mortgage lending business and later entered a field with its own brutal logic and dubious ethics: high-risk, high-interest loans for people who needed cash fast to settle bills, pay for home repairs or take a vacation.
Not surprisingly, some people, including Jerry Brown, then California's attorney general and now its governor, harshly compared the way Reddam's business operated to loan sharking.
Asked of his second career, Reddam, whose 3-year-old colt I'll Have Another will make a bid for the Triple Crown on Saturday, is unapologetic and a tad philosophical. 
''We tell people to borrow money and repay it quickly, because the rates are high,'' said Reddam, who runs CashCall, a multimillion-dollar mortgage and loan enterprise in Anaheim, Calif. ''I'm not saying these loans are for everybody. You should think of what you're doing.''
In some ways, Reddam is a perfect character for the mixed-feeling drama that will unfold at Belmont Park. Reddam, who took some of his loan business riches and invested in racehorses, selected Doug O'Neill to be I'll Have Another's trainer. California regulators, as well as their counterparts in other states, have occasionally taken a dim view of O'Neill's methods. Last week, California racing authorities suspended O'Neill for 45 days for his latest drug violation. The suspension will not begin before July 1.
Penny Chenery, the 90-year-old owner of Secretariat, the 1973 Triple Crown winner, said in an interview published last week that Reddam's decision to let O'Neill train the colt was ''regrettable.''
Chenery said, ''I don't know Mr. Reddam personally, but I think he should be embarrassed that the trainer he has chosen does not have a clean record.''
Racing officials in New York, wary of O'Neill's record, have vowed to enforce the rules until and through the Belmont Stakes. A special barn has been set up so officials can monitor the care given to horses, and any drugs used in that care. No one has asserted that I'll Have Another has been tainted by O'Neill's practices.
Indeed, many in and around the sport are happy to overlook the trainer to cheer for a horse and perhaps a bit of history.
Reddam, a man not unfamiliar with being the target of unpleasant accusations, stood by O'Neill.
''He's very likable but a little naive in some ways,'' Reddam said of O'Neill. ''I think he feels if he lets his natural personality come out -- he is caring, funny and friendly -- everyone will love him. It doesn't work that way. Maybe the more exposure you have, the more people don't like you.''
Reddam, 56, grew up in Windsor, Ontario. After earning degrees in philosophy at the University of Windsor and the University of Toronto, he received his doctorate at the University of Southern California, with a dissertation that lacked any equine flavor: ''Pragmatics and the Language of Belief.''
He went on to teach at California State University, Los Angeles.
Ann Garry, the former philosophy department chairwoman at Cal State, said, ''His interests were in mainstream analytic philosophy -- the kind of thing that doesn't excite the wider newspaper-reading public as much as the more flamboyant deconstruction or the like.''
Even as he studied and taught, Reddam indulged a fascination with horses. He bought a stake in his first horse, a pacer named Brev Hanover, with Canadian government scholarship money he received for his doctoral work.
Bas van Fraassen, a philosophy professor who taught and mentored Reddam at Southern Cal, said by e-mail, ''I invested a modest sum when he bought his first horses, with a very good return.''
But teaching philosophy, with its modest pay and difficult tenure track, lost its hold on Reddam. He went to work for his father as a mortgage banker -- ''He told me to shut up for six months and learn'' -- and eventually started his own company: Ditech, a mortgage lender that became known for its aggressive marketing of mortgages, some of which were subprime. He became its pitchman.
Reddam eventually sold the company to GMAC Mortgage, a subsidiary of General Motors, in 1999 for a reported $240 million. A year later, he left the company on the day that three of Ditech's managers were indicted on a charge of trying to extort kickbacks from a real estate firm. Reddam was not a target of the F.B.I. investigation into the kickbacks, but he said he thought that GMAC officials wanted in some way to blame him. So he resigned.
Soon after, Reddam started CashCall, solely to sell short-term, high-interest loans to consumers largely ignored or rejected by banks.
Reddam marketed his loans aggressively. At one point, Gary Coleman, the former star of ''Diff'rent Strokes,'' went to CashCall for a $10,000 loan. Reddam promptly signed Coleman up to do television advertisements.
Coleman, who died in 2010, told viewers: ''No one else would lend me money, not even my relatives. CashCall -- you're awesome.''
CashCall offers quick to approve, unsecured loans from $2,600 to $25,000 at annual percentage rates ranging from 35.87 percent to 184.36 percent. In 2009, CashCall added mortgages, which make up the bulk of the company's business.
CashCall in recent years has run afoul of regulators in California, West Virginia and Maryland, who have charged it with a variety of harassing tactics: continual phone calls demanding payment; disclosing borrowers' debts to third parties, including employers; charging usurious rates; accusing borrowers of fraud; and verbally abusing borrowers. A lawsuit filed in 2009 by California resulted in CashCall's paying $1 million.
Maryland and West Virginia have accused CashCall of violating state laws that cap interest rates by using out-of-state banks to originate the loans then quickly purchasing the loans. Maryland has proposed a fine of $5.7 million, which is pending, and in a separate action, revoked CashCall's mortgage lending license.
If Reddam is perturbed by the regulators' pursuit of his company, it is not evident. He said last week the accusations were dated or based on misunderstandings, and that certain problems with the company had been rectified. The financial crisis of 2008 left many of his customers in tough spots.
''Our delinquency rates were rising,'' Reddam said, ''and undoubtedly we had collectors, not on anyone's instructions, who went over the line.'' He added: ''I agree. We have to follow the law.''
Reddam, even in his moment on horse racing's biggest stage, has not entirely left behind his roots in philosophy. After I'll Have Another won the Kentucky Derby, the first leg of the Triple Crown, he quoted Ludwig Wittgenstein. Fans of I'll Have Another will take from it what they will.
''After all the philosophical problems have been solved, nothing of importance will have been accomplished.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 08, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the racehorse owner J. Paul Reddam, who was once a philosophy professor, misidentified the racing event where he quoted the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein saying, ''After all the philosophical problems have been solved, nothing of importance will have been accomplished.'' He said that after his horse I'll Have Another won the Kentucky Derby, not after the horse won the Preakness Stakes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: J. Paul Reddam, who runs CashCall, after his colt I'll Have Another won the Preakness Stakes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB CARR/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 J. Paul Reddam has been criticized for using Doug O'Neill as I'll Have Another's trainer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT SULLIVAN/REUTERS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILOSOPHY (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); ETHICS (89%); HORSES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



206 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Veterans Pension Program Is Being Abused, Report Says

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
A yearlong investigation into a federal pension program for low-income veterans has concluded that weak oversight and unclear rules have made the system ripe for abuse, including by financial planners and lawyers who help well-off retirees qualify for benefits by transferring or hiding assets.
The report by the Government Accountability Office, to be released on Wednesday, found that more than 200 firms had sprouted up across the country to help veterans ''restructure'' assets so they can appear indigent and therefore eligible for tax-free pensions, which can pay more than $20,000 a year. 
While transferring assets to qualify for the pension is not illegal under current rules, Congressional officials and veterans groups say the practice undermines the purpose of the pension system -- aiding poor veterans -- and burdens federal spending at a time of deep budget cuts.
The G.A.O. also found that some firms overcharge veterans for services -- in some cases more than $10,000 -- or sell them financial products that are potentially harmful, like trusts that limit a veteran's access to the money or deferred annuities that generate income only after the veteran's death.
The report placed partial blame for the problems on the Department of Veterans Affairs, saying it has unclear eligibility rules, does not systematically verify financial information and uses forms that do not require applicants to report asset transfers and other financial details.
The G.A.O. also said Congress should consider giving the department ''look-back'' authority to deny applicants who transfer or hide assets in the years just before applying for pensions. Other means-tested programs, like Medicaid, have such policies.
A bipartisan group of senators, including Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, plans to introduce legislation giving the V.A. look-back authority. The Senate Special Committee on Aging was scheduled to discuss that bill and the G.A.O. report in a hearing on Wednesday.
''If things continue as they are, and people see this program as a magnet for rip-offs and waste, I believe that in this financial climate support for the program will fall apart,'' Mr. Wyden said. ''I want to preserve this for people who need it.''
The Department of Veterans Affairs said it concurred with the G.A.O.'s recommendations. A senior official said the department was also drafting new regulations that would clarify the types of asset transfers that might disqualify a pension applicant. Some transfers, such as for medical expenses, would remain acceptable under the new rules.
''By making it clear the impact of asset transfers, we would close this gap and reduce the incentive for people to engage in this kind of behavior,'' said Michael Daugherty, assistant director of the V.A.'s Pension and Fiduciary Service.
To qualify for the pension, applicants must be over 65 or be permanently disabled, have served during wartime and fall below the income threshold: about $12,200 for a person with no dependents. Last year, the system paid $4.3 billion to 517,000 veterans or their survivors -- up from about $3.7 billion in 2007.
In addition to their pension checks, veterans who cannot cook, bathe or otherwise care for themselves can also receive stipends to pay for help, a benefit known as aid and attendance.
The G.A.O. and Congressional officials said firms that market services to veterans had been particularly aggressive about obtaining aid and attendance benefits, which can increase a pension by more than 50 percent.
The number of applicants approved for aid and attendance has grown sharply, to 38,000 in 2011, up from 22,500 in 2006. Though the G.A.O. and Congressional officials suggested that lax oversight had contributed to the high acceptance rate, V.A. officials said there were other factors at play, including a weak economy and a desire to get benefits quickly to frail veterans.
As part of their investigation, G.A.O. employees also posed as the children of an 86-year-old veteran who was seeking help qualifying for a pension. In calls to 19 firms, they were told time and again that they could qualify even with assets worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, provided they put their money in annuities or trusts, for which the firms charged administrative fees.
''V.A. allows you to qualify, regardless of what your assets are,'' one company representative said, according to a G.A.O. transcript. ''And I've had people with over a million dollars qualify for this benefit.''
Investigators working for the G.A.O. and the Special Committee on Aging found that financial planners and lawyers often worked through nursing homes or assisted living centers for the elderly to gain access to veterans. In those cases, the pensions presumably helped finance the cost of living in the homes.
Investigators also found numerous cases of firms charging high fees for helping veterans apply, even though organizations like the American Legion, as well as many states, offer the same assistance free. In one case, a veteran in Utah reported signing a contract that gave his first pension check to an agent who helped him apply. But because of delays in the system, that check was unusually large: $16,000.
Investigators said some firms posed as veterans advocates when marketing services. And some of those services included selling products that turned out to be harmful to the veterans.
A Montana woman, for instance, reported that a lawyer advised her father, a World War II veteran, to sell his house so he could move into an assisted living development. The lawyer assured the woman that her father would qualify for aid and attendance benefits that would help pay the bill. But the V.A. rejected the application, leaving the veteran on the hook for the entire monthly rent for his new home.
''I do not know, fully, who is at fault,'' the woman, Kris Schaffer, says in testimony submitted to the Senate committee. ''I only know that, for my father, this is a terrible miscarriage of justice.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 08, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a report on widespread abuse in a federal pension program for low-income veterans referred incorrectly to the relative of a World War II veteran who was advised to sell his house so he could move into an assisted living development. The relative, Kris Schaffer, is a woman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); VETERANS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); LAWYERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ANNUITIES (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); AGING (72%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (56%); RICHARD BURR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



207 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: An Ohio River City Comes Back to Its Shoreline

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
CINCINNATI -- The shoreline of this Ohio River city, which in the 19th century hummed with 30 steamboat visits a day but faded in the 20th as pollution and industrial disinvestment pushed people and businesses inland, is emerging again as a hub of civic and economic vitality.
Last year Western & Southern Financial Group opened a $322 million, 800,000-square-foot office tower that now dominates the city's skyline, with the Great American Insurance Group as primary tenant. Two blocks in front of the 41-story building, the city and Hamilton County are constructing a $120 million riverfront park. It steps up from the shoreline in tiers of grass and stone to meet the Banks, a $600 million, 18-acre mixed-use retail, residential and entertainment development.
And Rock Gaming is building a $400 million, 354,000-square-foot casino downtown that is scheduled to open early next year. A 2.6-mile streetcar line, under construction at a cost of $112 million, will link the new park and the Banks to the city's business center and the historical Over-the-Rhine residential and entertainment district. 
''We're seeing a new Cincinnati coming from all of this,'' said Mayor Mark Mallory, a two-term Democrat elected in 2005. ''We have a new set of activities, new places to live, new places to work. We are investing in things that grow a city.''
Cincinnati's economy and its capacity to attract new residents and jobs reflects several converging market trends. The public University of Cincinnati has significantly rebuilt its campus in recent years, attracting more students and national attention, and serving as the foundation of an expanding medical research and health services industry. A growing number of independent marketing and branding companies, many focused on online markets, are developing with the help of and through various collaborations and partnerships with Procter & Gamble, the city's consumer products mainstay. And upriver from Cincinnati, the energy industry is investing billions to develop deep shale gas and shale oil reserves. The aim is to revive the state's steel industry, generate a new petrochemical sector, create thousands of jobs and strengthen urban economies from Pittsburgh to Cincinnati.
That is no small goal for a river city founded as a western frontier outpost in 1788. By 1950, Cincinnati had grown into an industrial powerhouse of nearly 504,000 residents. But since 1960, as the metropolitan region expanded to more than two million people and globalization drained manufacturing jobs, Cincinnati has been losing an average of 4,000 residents annually. The median household income is well below the state and national average.
Still, with 80,000 downtown jobs, Cincinnati's business core is thriving. And with nearly 300,000 residents, 10,000 of them living downtown and now on the waterfront, it remains the third-largest city along the six-state, 981-mile Ohio River, behind Louisville and Pittsburgh. Like its bigger neighbors, and several smaller river cities -- including Marietta, Ohio; Owensboro, Ky.; and Evansville, Ind. -- Cincinnati is experiencing a strong revival in urban core business and residential growth, much of it prompted by development along a scenic river that state and federal water quality data show is cleaner and more ecologically vital.
On a bright blue afternoon, just the sort of day that prompted Alexis de Tocqueville in 1831 to describe this part of the Ohio River as ''one of the most magnificent valleys in which man has made his stay, '' the full sweep of Cincinnati's new development, clearly designed as the city's gateway, comes into full view.
Construction workers laid stone walkways and sod in the shoreline park. Alongside, on the upriver end of an 18-acre expanse of grass, walkways, new streets and pocket parks are the first two buildings of the Banks, which opened last year. The sleek six-story brick-and-glass buildings, which cost a total of $82 million, have ground-floor restaurant and retail space and 300 rental apartments above.
The $78 million second phase of the Banks, which is being developed by Carter, is set to start construction late next year. It will include one more mixed-use building of a similar size.
Piece by piece, a new neighborhood is taking shape. It combines an old riverfront economic concept based on housing, entertainment, travel and tourism with a newer focus on the value of professional sports.
Located between the two phases of the Banks is the $110 million, 158,000-square-foot National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, which opened in 2004 and was visited in February by Michelle Obama. Flanking the entire development, to the east and west, are Cincinnati's professional sports stadiums -- the Cincinnati Bengals' $455 million Paul Brown football stadium, which opened in 2000, and the $337 million Great American Ballpark for the Cincinnati Reds, which opened in 2003.
The construction of the Banks and the 45-acre shoreline park comes after more than a decade of significant infrastructure investment along Cincinnati's riverfront, much of it financed by a half-cent sales tax approved by the city and Hamilton County voters in 1997. Revenue from the tax supported a $322 million highway modernization that narrowed the Fort Washington Way expressway between the river and the central business district. Engineers shortened the overpasses over the sunken freeway, making it much easier for pedestrians to reach the river from downtown.
The tax also supported the new football and baseball stadiums and the construction of a $120 million, 5,500-space underground parking garage that is designed to withstand the river's periodic flooding. It serves as the out-of-the-floodplain dry pedestal on which all of the new construction is perched.
''There was some pretty sophisticated engineering, and a lot of new structural work that had to happen in a known floodplain before we could do anything with that part of the city,'' said Michael Moore, Cincinnati's director of transportation and engineering. ''These are the sort of changes that take a city a generation to plan and complete.''
Laura Swadel, a vice president at Carter, explained in an interview that putting so many ''built assets'' together along an impressive river is proving to be very attractive to businesses and residents. She said that the development's retail space was 92 percent leased and that there was a 66-person waiting list for the one- and two-bedroom market-rate apartments, which rent for $1,600 to $1,700 a month.
When fully built out, which will take most of this decade, the Banks will consist of an additional 1.5 million square feet, including more than 1,200 residential units and 500,000 square feet of retail office and hotel space. The cost of construction, she said, is estimated at $600 million.
The Ohio has long been a source of water, resources and transport for 20th-century industrialization. But that industrialization also brought pollution, and when the manufacturing sector started to wither, the river valley's population shrank and became poorer.
Those decades of decay are giving way to a new era of dynamism in the Ohio River's big cities. Unemployment in March in Cincinnati was 7.6 percent, lower than the national average.
On April 5, the Cincinnati Reds' opening day, the city and the Banks held a block party that attracted a crowd estimated by city officials at 140,000 fans, many of them clad in the team's signature red and white jerseys, caps and jackets. People crowded the new streets outside the Great American Ballpark and stood shoulder to shoulder in the district's new bars and restaurants.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Banks is a mixed-use residential and entertainment development in downtown Cincinnati. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); TRENDS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (68%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (65%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (64%); PETROCHEMICALS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

COMPANY: WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP (72%); GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (71%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012



208 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Iran and Azerbaijan, Already Wary Neighbors, Find Even Less to Agree On

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
BILASUVAR, Azerbaijan -- The perennially tense relationship between Azerbaijan and Iran, wary neighbors on the Caspian Sea, has deteriorated in recent weeks amid deep unease in Tehran over expanding military cooperation between Azerbaijan and Israel.
A vital border crossing here has been shut for days at a time, stranding long lines of trucks. Not far away, Iranian warships maneuver in the Caspian Sea. Last week, a senior aide to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was refused entry at the airport in Baku, the Azerbaijani capital. Ambassadors on each side have returned home.
And a public relations war is raging as officials trade nasty barbs online and in the news media -- including an exchange in which the two predominantly Muslim countries each accused the other of being overly friendly to gay people.
In March, in perhaps the gravest sign of the strains, authorities in Azerbaijan arrested 22 people they said were part of an Iranian-backed plot to kill American and Israeli diplomats and attack other targets in Baku, though the allegations are as yet unproved. 
''Relations between Azerbaijan and Iran have become very hot,'' said Elhan Shahinoglu, the director of Atlas, a foreign policy research organization in Baku.
Officially, Azerbaijan says it wants to remain neutral in the confrontation over Iran's nuclear program. But the government of President Ilham Aliyev has loudly defended its right to strengthen military ties with Israel, signaled most recently by Azerbaijan's purchase of $1.6 billion worth of Israeli-made weapons. However, both countries have denied reports that Azerbaijan has given Israel access to its military bases to keep watch over Iran.
The rising importance of Azerbaijan as a strategic ally of the West will be on full display on Wednesday, when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton lands in Baku on a diplomatic swing through the South Caucasus. With overland supply routes closed in Pakistan, NATO is relying heavily on airfields in Azerbaijan to move supplies to and from Afghanistan.
Ties to the West, however, are only one factor in the tensions with Iran. Azerbaijan has long chafed at Iran's support of Armenia, Azerbaijan's western neighbor and sworn enemy, in the long-running war over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh.
Even as the situation in and around Azerbaijan has grown increasingly volatile, American officials have seemed largely distracted by the civil war in Syria and by domestic politics.
State Department officials in Washington refused to respond to questions about the friction between Azerbaijan and Iran, the United States' relationship with Baku or the implications for American and international security. ''We're not prepared to comment,'' Robert B. Hilton, a spokesman on European and Eurasian affairs, wrote in an e-mail message.
The United States has not had an ambassador in Baku since the departure in December of Matthew J. Bryza, a well-respected career diplomat and expert on the region, whose nomination was derailed in Congress because of opposition from Armenian-American interest groups.
President Obama had granted Mr. Bryza a temporary recess appointment in 2010.
Late last month, Mr. Obama nominated Richard L. Morningstar, a former ambassador to the European Union and currently the special envoy for Eurasian energy issues, to be the next ambassador in Baku. He is awaiting confirmation by the Senate.
Ali M. Hasanov, a senior political aide to President Aliyev, said the lack of an ambassador was problematic. ''We are missing the consultations with the American ambassador,'' he said in an interview at his office in Baku. ''Americans cannot write off a country like Azerbaijan. They cannot leave Azerbaijan on its own.''
But American officials often see Azerbaijan as a no-win situation, in which any sign of friendship will inevitably draw criticism from Armenian-American groups or from local and international watchdog groups, which have documented a number of cases of human rights abuses by the Aliyev government.
In a sort of 21st-century echo of Great Game politics, the 19th-century rivalry between Russia and Britain over Central Asia, Russia is also wary of Azerbaijan's relationship with the West.
Moscow is now seeking to renegotiate a lease for a major radar installation in Gabala, Azerbaijan, that is used to track missiles across a huge portion of the globe. Baku demands $300 million for a new five-year term, a jump from the current $7 million lease. Mr. Hasanov said the increase was justified because of a sharp rise in property values.
Russia has blamed the United States for pressing Azerbaijan to raise the rent, and has recently threatened to abandon the radar station.
In interviews, government officials, diplomats, academic experts, human rights advocates and citizens said the strained ties between Azerbaijan and Iran also raised the prospect of unrest among the more than 20 million ethnic Azerbaijanis who live in Iran, mostly along its northern border.
Some members of Azerbaijan's Parliament have proposed renaming their country North Azerbaijan to send the message that they view northern Iran as occupied territory that should be called South Azerbaijan. The proposal has not gained momentum, but Iran aggressively seeks to shape public opinion in the border zone, and even broadcasts television programs entirely in the Azerbaijani language.
It is in the border areas where the current tensions are felt most. Every day in Bilasuvar, truckers line up to cross into Iran, many of them heading to Nakhichevan, an exclave that is cut off from the rest of Azerbaijan because of Armenia's control of Zangezur. By land, it is accessible only through Iran.
Emiro Rovshan, a truck driver carrying a load of shoes, said that in the past three or four months, border closings, apparently ordered by Iran, had become more common, occasionally stranding drivers for days. Still, Mr. Rovshan said, Azerbaijanis should not complain. ''We are dependent on Iran,'' he said. ''The way we go to Nakhichevan is a blessing, it is like a gift to us.''
Leyla Yunus, the director of the Institute of Peace and Democracy, an organization that monitors human rights abuses in Azerbaijan, said that political repression by the Aliyev government was benefiting Iran, and that the lack of economic opportunities, especially for young people in rural areas, could push them to embrace the religious fervor of Tehran's theocratic authorities.
''What are people watching in rural areas?'' Ms. Yunus asked. ''Iran TV.''
Ms. Yunus said that the United States had muted its criticism of human rights abuses to protect its larger interests in Azerbaijan. ''From 2003 to today, we do not see strong criticism from Washington,'' she said.
For Israel, Azerbaijan has emerged as an extraordinary ally -- a friendly Muslim nation that is willing to cooperate on military and strategic issues. And Israel, more than other countries, seems to feel empathy for the tough neighborhood in which Azerbaijan finds itself, bordered by a declared enemy and two other countries it cannot fully trust.
From Azerbaijan's view, Israel has been more understanding than European countries that have criticized Baku about rights abuses but that do not acknowledge the challenges on its borders or the difficulty in building a secular culture in a predominantly Muslim country.
In a clear rebuke of Iran's theocracy, Baku has loudly emphasized its desire for a secular society, evidenced by its role as host of this year's Eurovision Song Competition. It was in response to Eurovision, which draws many gay fans, that Iranian Web sites said Baku was planning to hold a huge gay rights parade.
Mr. Hasanov, the presidential aide, said he believed that Azerbaijan and Iran would ultimately work things out. ''We will find a formula in which the secular state will live in peace with the religious state,'' he said. ''We are proud of the fact that we are Muslims, and we are proud that we are a secular country.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 

GRAPHIC: MAP: Azerbaijan is rising in importance as an ally of the West. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) CASPIAN SEA (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ARMENIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012



209 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Biden and College Presidents Talk About Paying the Bills

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The Obama administration is pushing hard this week to keep the spotlight on its efforts to make college more affordable. On Tuesday, administration officials met with 10 college presidents who have agreed to include a consumer-friendly ''shopping sheet'' in the financial aid packages they send to incoming students. 
Although the Education Department and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed such a form in January, only Congress could make it mandatory. But at a round-table Tuesday led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden, the presidents of some of the nation's largest institutions, representing 1.4 million students -- among them, Arizona State University, Miami Dade College, and the state university systems of New York, Massachusetts, Maryland and Texas -- volunteered to provide the information, starting with the 2013-14 school year.
The sheet would simplify the current process of comparing colleges. It would clearly state the cost of a year of classes, the student's net cost after grants and scholarships, financial aid options to pay that cost and estimated monthly payments for federal loans. It would also provide information about the colleges' retention and graduation rates and the share of graduates who default on their student loans. ''These aren't standards,'' said Secretary of Education Arne Duncan at a briefing on Tuesday afternoon after the college presidents' meeting.
''This is basic transparency.''
About two-thirds of bachelor's degree recipients borrow to attend college, but many colleges send out confusing financial aid offers, sometimes blurring the lines between grants and scholarships, which do not have to be repaid, and loans, which do. Without uniform information, students and their parents often find it difficult to compare offers.
Mr. Duncan said he hoped the ''coalition of the willing'' at Tuesday's meeting would induce other universities to adopt the shopping sheet.
The shopping sheet is not the administration's only effort in the area. In a visit to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, on Thursday, White House officials said, Mr. Obama will again push for Congressional action to stop the interest rate on certain federal student loans from doubling to 6.8 percent on July 1, as is now scheduled. Since the president began lobbying on the interest rate issue in April, both Democrats and Republicans have said they want to keep the interest at the lower rate. But so far, they have made no headway in agreeing on a plan to pay for it.
Also Thursday, the officials said, Mr. Obama will issue a memorandum aimed at easing access to student loan repayment options -- in particular income-based repayment, which caps borrowers' monthly payments based on their ability to pay.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden led a discussion on Tuesday about simplifying college expenses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); LOBBYING (76%); GRADUATION RATES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



210 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Extending Tax Cuts Until Recovery

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
9:03 p.m. Updated Former President Bill Clinton, voicing a new ''antiausterity'' line opposed by both parties, suggested Tuesday that all expiring tax cuts be extended temporarily and that short-term budget cutting be put off until the country emerges from what he called a recession.
Speaking on CNBC's ''Closing Bell,'' Mr. Clinton said Washington should do nothing that would slow economic growth. 
''What I think we need to do is find some way to avoid the fiscal cliff to avoid doing anything that would contract the economy now, and then deal with what's necessary in the long-term debt-reduction plans as soon as they can, which presumably would be after the election,'' Mr. Clinton said.
President Obama and Congressional Democrats have firmly opposed extending the Bush-era tax cuts for upper-income families after their Jan. 1 expiration date. House Republican leaders plan a vote this summer to extend all the tax cuts, and they quickly latched on to the former president's comments.
But Mr. Clinton appeared to be voicing a position that neither party has embraced: stop the short-term spending cuts and extend the tax cuts, but only temporarily.
''They will probably have to put everything off until early next year,'' he said of Washington policymakers. ''That's probably the best thing to do right now. But the Republicans don't want to do that unless he agrees to extend the tax cuts permanently, including for upper-income people, and I don't think the president should do that.''
He blamed the economic struggles in the United States on the darkening economic environment in Europe. But in a jab at Republicans, Mr. Clinton also said, ''the thing that cost jobs here has been the Congress's policies.''
Mr. Clinton's comments come as he has played a much more visible role in national politics in recent days, appearing at an Obama fund-raiser on Monday and campaigning last week in the Wisconsin recall fight. On Tuesday came word that the Romney campaign had even created a fake Twitter account noting, for instance, Mr. Clinton's recent comments about Mr. Romney's ''sterling'' business career.
After Mr. Clinton's remarks on the tax cut extension drew a flurry of attention, his spokesman, Matt McKenna, issued a statement.
''Two questions have been raised regarding President Clinton's interview on CNBC today. First, on extending the Bush tax cuts, as President Clinton has said many times before, he supported extending all of the cuts in 2010 as part of the budget agreement, but does not believe the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans should be extended again. In the interview, he simply said that he doubted that a long-term agreement on spending cuts and revenues would be reached until after the election.
''Second, on the current condition of the economy, he said at the top of the interview that the main goal for those in Washington was ''to keep the expansion going.'' Later, in the interview, he said government spending levels were higher and revenues were lower than they would normally be because there was a recession and we're still living with the aftermath of it. It's obvious since we've had 4.3 million new private sector jobs in the last 27 months that we're not in a recession, even though we'd all like growth to be higher.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); FAMILY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); FUNDRAISING (60%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



211 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Fate Rests in Part On Europe

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
The recent downshift in the economy has dealt a powerful blow to President Obama's chances of re-election in November. But perhaps most worrying for the president is just how little sway he retains over where the economy goes from here.
His attempts to convince voters as he stumps around the country that Europe's financial mess and Republican obstruction are largely to blame for the faltering economy only underscore how his destiny hinges on decisions by other people, notably the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the Republican speaker of the House, John A. Boehner.
At home, the president's plans to stimulate the economy with tax cuts and spending programs have invariably crashed against solid Republican opposition in Congress. As a result the government is becoming a big drag on the economy, cutting more than half a million jobs at the federal, state and municipal level since national employment bottomed out in February 2010. 
In Europe, the political constraints are the same. Most economists, including those in the Obama administration, say they believe that for the euro to survive, weak European countries must grow. But this means curbing the harsh austerity policies imposed in return for aid from European institutions and the International Monetary Fund -- policies that have only deepened the countries' recessions. Germany, the only country in Europe with the wherewithal to backstop its poorer neighbors' finances, has so far said no.
To many economists, the policy gridlock makes no sense. Historical precedent and recent evidence suggest that cutting public spending in the middle of a slump only worsens the downturn -- damaging public finances because it reduces tax revenue even as unemployment and unemployment benefit costs are rising.
In some countries -- notably the United States and Germany -- interest rates are so low that governments could essentially borrow free, using funds to blunt the impact of the economic slump on the most vulnerable. For the United States this could mean building roads and hiring teachers. For Germany, it could mean providing a financial backstop to prevent Spain from going bankrupt.
When the crisis struck in 2009, most industrial countries and big developing nations followed this script, ramping up public spending to keep their economies from floundering as the private sector shrank.
Today, even the governments that could afford to do more are slashing public spending. Predictably, the world economy is slowing again.
What happened? Champions of austerity will make the economic case that stimulus went too far and government debt grew too much. Many European countries -- virtually shut out from financial markets -- could not spend even if they wanted to. But the reason the world so quickly U-turned from fiscal stimulus to fiscal austerity has a lot to do with how the crisis changed the world's politics.
It's hard to overstate the shock dealt by the Great Recession to the political order. In the United States it gave rise to the Tea Party -- born from the rant of a cable TV business commentator against an administration plan to help underwater homeowners. It spawned the Occupy Wall Street movement, angry at the concentration of wealth among a fortunate few who rebounded smartly from the crisis while the rest of the nation wallowed.
In Europe, 11 euro area governments have fallen in just over a year -- it happened twice in Greece -- punished by electorates who see no end in sight to the downturn. Extreme populist parties are on the rise, like France's right-wing National Front, which garnered a record 18 percent of the vote in the French presidential elections last month. Battle lines have been drawn across the Continent between a political establishment that defends austerity at all costs in the name of preserving the euro, and increasingly radical oppositions.
This kind of political polarization may be a standard feature of financial crises. Economists have noted that such crises naturally widen the chasm between the interests of creditors -- like banks, investors and even governments -- and debtors, who are suddenly made insolvent by a crisis that takes away their jobs and destroys the value of their homes.
Creditors push austerity as the best way for debtors to repay their debts. They oppose efforts to write down or renegotiate loans, or to allow higher inflation to erode their value. And creditors, better financed and organized, usually gain the upper hand. Debtors, who are generally poorer, lose.
This cleavage is evident in Europe, where German voters have staunchly opposed committing more German resources to aid indebted Southern European countries. It is also evident on Capitol Hill, where Republicans have countered the administration's stimulus plans with proposals to cut public spending to finance tax cuts that would favor the most affluent Americans. The ensuing gridlock has paralyzed policy-making on both sides of the Atlantic. And it could produce a lot of economic damage.
With an economy in free fall and 22 percent unemployment, Greece looks very close to dropping the euro and defaulting on its debts. This could potentially lead to the departure of other vulnerable nations, including Spain, Portugal and Ireland, and the dismemberment of the single currency into up to 17 different parts.
While nobody has a clear idea of how a breakup of the euro would affect the American economy, it would hurt. Citizens of vulnerable European countries would rush to withdraw their euro deposits ahead of the breakup, to avoid having their savings converted into pesetas or drachmas. Banks would fail, and financial markets would plummet as investors took their money out of risky assets and put them into the comparative safety of German bunds and American Treasury bonds.
This would very likely cripple some big American banks. And a stock market crash would wipe out the savings of many ordinary citizens. Exports to Europe would slow sharply as European economies contracted -- depriving the United States of one of its few engines of growth.
Look at it this way: When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in 2008, sending the global financial system into a tailspin, its debts amounted to about $600 billion. Government debt alone in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland -- the most vulnerable European countries -- adds up to about $1.9 trillion. And the economies and government finances of most developed countries are in worse shape than they were four years ago.
All is not lost for President Obama, however. There is, of course, little incentive for Republicans in Congress to come to the aid of the economy and increase his chances of re-election. But Chancellor Merkel seems to have realized that Germany, Europe's main creditor, would also lose big if the euro were to break apart.
In high-level meetings the last few days, German officials have signaled that Germany might be willing to do what it takes to save the euro, in exchange for more centralized control over public spending in Europe. This would mean providing resources to backstop the governments of its weak neighbors, so they can relax austerity and spend more. But Germany would also have to accept more inflation at home, to help its less competitive neighbors close the cost gap with the ultracompetitive Germans. It would have to encourage spending at home, to help the export sectors of weaker countries in the euro area.
''Germany realizes it is going to have to write a blank check,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard economist. ''This will require open-ended transfers for a long time. Loans will have to become gifts. In reciprocity, Germans want a political union.''
And if the euro doesn't go over the brink, Chancellor Merkel will have done President Obama a favor no Congressional Republican would match.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, above, talked with President Obama after last month's Group of 8 summit meeting at Camp David in Maryland. Right, John A. Boehner, the speaker of the House. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUIDO BERGMANN/BUNDESREGIERUNG, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); ANGELA MERKEL (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



212 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Block Bill To Ease Suits Over Pay Bias

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A bill that would pave the way for women to more easily litigate their way to pay equality failed to clear a procedural hurdle in the Senate on Tuesday as Republicans united against the measure for the second time in two years.
As Lilly M. Ledbetter, the woman whose name was attached to a 2009 law that ensured equal pay for women, watched from the gallery, the Senate voted, 52 to 47, to open debate on the legislation, 8 votes short of the 60 required. 
''It's a very sad day here in the United States Senate,'' Senator Barbara Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, said after the vote.
The bill would have built on the 2009 Ledbetter legislation, which adjusted the statute of limitations on equal pay lawsuits. Tuesday's bill sought to bar companies from retaliating against workers who inquire about pay disparities and open pathways for female employees to sue for punitive damages in cases of paycheck discrimination. In 2010, the same bill failed a procedural vote in the Senate when no Republican supported it.
The measure was part of Senate Democrats' continuing effort to highlight divisions with Republicans over women's issues and to force Republicans to take difficult votes on bills focused on domestic violence, wage discrimination and other matters.
The only Republican to take to the floor to denounce the measure was Senator Dean Heller of Nevada, who has authored his own legislation that is less sweeping.
''Let me be clear: pay discrimination based on gender is unacceptable,'' Mr. Heller said. ''Despite the political rhetoric around here, everyone agrees on this fact. The question is, will the Paycheck Fairness Act actually address workplace inequality? And the simple answer is no.''
Democrats tried to frame the issue as a broader economic one. ''Middle-class families need the economic security,'' said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan.
Senator Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, acknowledged Republicans' central complaint -- that the bill would create litigation and potentially onerous compliance issues for small businesses. But she said: ''Where are these women supposed to go? What are they supposed to do? Have an appointment with their congressman? Show the congressman their paycheck?''
Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that women make about 77 cents to the male dollar, which reflects the gap between their annual earnings. Based on median hourly pay, women make 86 percent as much as men, according to the most recent Bureau of Labor Statistics data.
Before the vote, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, criticized Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, and his Republican colleagues for failing to take a position on the bill.
''They want to stick their heads in the sand and ignore the reality,'' Mr. Reid said. (Mr. Reid voted against the measure as a procedural trick to enable him to call the legislation back to the floor again as Ms. Mikulski, brandishing a red lipstick as her weapon in a post-legislative news conference, promised would happen.)
Then, Mr. Reid introduced Ms. Ledbetter, whose Southern lilt filled the hallway off the Senate floor as she described realizing near retirement that she made less money than men doing the same work in her company. ''Paycheck fairness is near and dear to my heart,'' Ms. Ledbetter said.
During a news conference held after the vote, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said that Republicans were justified in voting against the legislation.
''We don't think America suffers from a lack of litigation,'' he said.
In a statement, President Obama said, ''It is incredibly disappointing that in this make-or-break moment for the middle class, Senate Republicans put partisan politics ahead of American women and their families.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barbara Mikulski of Maryland with Lilly M. Ledbetter, for whom an equal pay law is named. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (91%); WOMEN (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LITIGATION (88%); DAMAGES (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (74%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); PERSONAL INJURY (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (65%); STATISTICS (63%); FAMILY (62%); COMPANY EARNINGS (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (77%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (72%); DEAN HELLER (57%); DEBBIE STABENOW (57%); MARY LANDRIEU (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



213 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: A President, a Governor and the Economic Numbers Game

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mitt Romney rarely misses an opportunity to chastise President Obama for blaming the country's gloomy economic challenges on the situation he inherited from President George W. Bush.
''What he's very good at is finding other people to blame,'' Mr. Romney said recently at a fund-raiser in San Diego. At an event in Michigan, he mocked Mr. Obama for trying to evade responsibility for the economy by blaming ''his predecessor, the Congress, the 1 percent, oil companies and A.T.M.'s.''
So it was curious to hear Mr. Romney's own aides over the weekend respond to the Obama campaign's charges that their candidate had a failing record of creating jobs as governor of Massachusetts. 
Mr. Romney's aides responded: It wasn't the governor's fault.
''He inherited a $3 billion projected deficit,'' Ed Gillespie, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
Mr. Gillespie said it was unfair to judge Mr. Romney's record on job creation by including all four years of his tenure. He said the statistic that Mr. Romney was 47th in job creation during his time in office was calculated by ''diluting it with the first year in office, when he came into office, and it was 50th in job creation.''
Essentially, Mr. Gillespie argued that Mr. Romney's first year, in 2003, shouldn't be counted.
Eric Fehrnstrom, another top aide to Mr. Romney, also blamed the situation that the governor inherited -- paradoxically, from Republican governors who occupied the Statehouse for the previous 12 years.
''When Mitt Romney arrived, Massachusetts was an economic basket house,'' Mr. Fehrnstrom said on ABC's ''This Week'' program on Sunday. ''If you throw D.C. into the mix, we were 51 out of 51.''
The Obama campaign responded harshly. On a conference call with reporters on Monday, David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president's campaign, accused the Romney campaign of ''breathtaking hypocrisy'' for using the same methods to calculate job creation that it has been hammering the president for.
''Their answer to all of this was, 'Well, you really can't include his first year because you know he inherited a really tough economic situation,' '' Mr. Axelrod said. ''They've painted themselves into a corner here, and now that double standard is clear, and they're going to have to explain it to the American people.''
In fact, Mr. Romney's criticisms of Mr. Obama's economic record frequently focus on his first year in office. The Romney campaign says Mr. Obama has presided over an economy that has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. In a recent news release, the Republican campaign said that ''Under President Obama, the Nation Has Lost 552,000 Jobs.''
But that statistic includes Mr. Obama's first year in office, and especially the months of February, March and April, when monthly job losses from the economic collapse were at 700,000 or higher.
Just leaving out February 2009 -- before any of Mr. Obama's policies, including the economic stimulus, had been put into place -- would wipe away all 552,000 lost jobs, giving the president a record of creating 172,000 jobs.
If Mr. Romney's team were to ignore Mr. Obama's first year in office -- as Mr. Gillespie suggested should be done for Mr. Romney's first year as governor -- then the president would have added about 3.7 million jobs to the economy.
Mr. Romney's campaign is unlikely to change its language or strategy. His bid for the White House depends on the idea that Mr. Obama has made the economy worse. Because the country has been adding jobs for nearly two years, Mr. Romney's argument depends on the steep job losses in Mr. Obama's first year in office.
But the campaign may need to find a way to defend Mr. Romney's record as governor against the criticism that while he was in office, the state lagged behind the rest of the country in job creation. Mr. Obama's campaign is making that charge aggressively. Mr. Axelrod said on Monday that the campaign was spending about $10 million on a television advertisement that tries to undermine Mr. Romney's record as governor. The ad is running in nine battleground states.
''When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts lost 40,000 manufacturing jobs,'' the ad's narrator says. ''And fell to 47th in job creation. Fourth from the bottom.''
Both campaigns face the same conundrum: Their candidate governed in periods following economic slowdowns that weigh down the statistics that might otherwise look rosier.
On ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mr. Fehrnstrom urged viewers to look at how Mr. Romney fared at the end of his term, when the economy had fired back up again. By that measure, he said, Massachusetts was not 47th in job creation.
''By the time Mitt Romney left four years later, we were in the middle of the pack,'' Mr. Fehrnstrom said. ''We were 30th in the nation in terms of job growth. That's the trend line that you want to see.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, pictured at a campaign event on Tuesday in Fort Worth, has accused President Obama of trying to evade responsibility for the economy by blaming others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REX C. CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



214 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Putin Arrives in China, Seeking Stronger Ties

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
BEIJING -- The Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, arrived in China on Tuesday for meetings aimed at strengthening a partnership between the two countries and offsetting the influence of the United States.
Admired by the Chinese for his staying power as leader of Russia for 12 years, Mr. Putin discussed with President Hu Jintao their common approaches to Syria, according to state television. They appeared certain to deal with their mutual interests in Iran and their efforts to squeeze the United States out of Central Asia, Chinese and American analysts said. Both Beijing and Moscow also oppose an American plan for a missile-defense system in Poland and other parts of Eastern Europe that is intended as protection against Iran.
Mr. Putin's visit, during which he will participate in a summit meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a regional security organization that includes Russia, China and former Soviet republics in Central Asia, stood in stark contrast to his decision not to attend a summit meeting hosted by President Obama last month in the United States. 
After their meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Putin and Mr. Hu urged international support for the peace plan brokered for Syria by Kofi Annan, the special United Nations and Arab League envoy, despite calls from Arab and Western states for a tougher response to the bloodshed.
In a show of solidarity with Iran, its president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, will attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization meeting as an observer. The Kremlin announced that Mr. Putin would meet separately with Mr. Ahmadinejad. This month, Russia is scheduled to host the next round of talks among world powers on the Iranian nuclear program.
Despite their commonality of interests, the relationship between China and Russia is seeded with historic rivalries from the cold war, and the realization in Moscow that the power equation has changed dramatically in recent years because China's overall economy is now far larger than Russia's.
The two countries have yet to come to an agreement on delivering gas from Russia, the world's second biggest producer behind the United States, to China, one of the fastest-growing consumers.
China had originally expected Mr. Putin to make Beijing his first overseas trip after his inauguration as president in early May. But Europe is Russia's biggest energy customer, and Mr. Putin visited Germany and France last Friday, and dropped by Belarus and Uzbekistan in the past week.
The talks between Mr. Putin and Mr. Hu, along with the two-day Shanghai Cooperation Organization summit meeting, are fraught with the symbolism of two major powers interested in further developing a multilateral organization that does not include the United States, and where Iran plays a role, if only as observer.
''Iran, too, is very keen on the Shanghai Cooperation Organization,'' said Vali Nasr, an Iran expert and former State Department official in the Obama administration. ''That it is happening in China reflects China's increasing interest in Central Asia and also its desire to lead international and regional alliances without the U.S.''
The six members of the organization are China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. Afghanistan, like Iran, will also attend the meeting in Beijing as an observer, a sign of China's growing interests there after the planned 2014 withdrawal by the United States.
Despite what would seem to be a confluence of needs on energy, there was little chance that Russia and China would resolve the outstanding differences over delivery of gas to China in time for an agreement between the two leaders, Arkady V. Dvorkovich, a Russian vice prime minister, said on the eve of the visit. The sticking point after two decades of talks remained price, with Russia wanting to sell its gas at $350 to $400 per 1,000 cubic meters, while China is prepared to pay only $200 to $250, according to Chinese press reports.
The English-language newspaper China Daily recently reported that China, frustrated by the stalemate between the China National Petroleum Corporation and Russia's Gazprom, increased its supplies from Turkmenistan, a sign of how Beijing's economic strength allows it to play the market.
Even so, the atmospherics on energy had improved and there was now an ''opportunity for both sides to unfold a new age of energy cooperation,'' said Xu Xiaojie, a former director of investment of overseas investment for the China National Petroleum Corporation.
On the subject of the violence in Syria, China and Russia, both permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, have blocked efforts by Western powers to condemn or call for the removal of President Bashar al-Assad. After the meeting between Mr. Hu and Mr. Putin on Tuesday, Chinese state television reported that ''On the Syrian issue, the two heads of state said the international community should continue to support the joint Arab League/U.N. Special Envoy Annan's mediation efforts and the U.N. monitoring mission, to promote a political solution to the problem in Syria.''
The two countries ''cover each other's back in the United Nations Security Council'' on Syria, a senior American official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity in keeping with diplomatic protocol.
Both leaders seemed unconvinced that Mr. Assad is losing his grip on power, the official said, though he added that if it appeared that the Syrian leader had alienated the vast majority of the population, it was conceivable that Russia would distance itself from its longtime ally, with China following suit.
China reiterated the joint approach on Syria at the daily press briefing at the Foreign Ministry on Tuesday, hours after Mr. Putin's arrival. ''Both sides oppose external intervention in Syria and oppose regime change by force,'' Liu Weimin, the spokesman said.
Within the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Afghan leader, President Hamid Karzai, is likely to receive special attention. China's vice foreign minister, Cheng Guoping, said Afghanistan was likely to gain full observer status from the organization at the summit meeting.
China, in particular, has started talking to elements of the Taliban to try to ensure protection of its iron ore, steel and other mineral interests in Afghanistan after the American withdrawal, said Sajjan Gohel, international security director of the Asia-Pacific Foundation, based in London, who visited Beijing recently.
Online Correction: June 5, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the position of Arkady V. Dvorkovich as an economic aide to President Vladimir V. Putin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia talking to an aide Tuesday during a ceremony in Beijing with President Hu Jintao of China. (POOL PHOTO BY MARK RALSTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI COOPERATION ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); HU JINTAO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); BELARUS (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (76%); POLAND (76%); GERMANY (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



215 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Active Government Means More Lobbying

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: With government expanding its reach into new areas of activity, it is to be expected that the amount spent on lobbying and campaign finance will grow as well, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
As our government enters into new policy areas and revamps old ones, expect lobbyists and others to be more politically active than ever.
Government has undertaken a whole new range of activities in the last several years, from running a major automobile manufacturer to buying stock in banks to providing health insurance for able-bodied middle-aged adults. Other areas of government involvement, like education, military spending, Medicare and Medicaid have become increasingly costly over the last decade.
Some people think government activities in these areas are long overdue. Others say government expansion was unnecessary. Either way, both sides can agree that businesses, institutions and families have more at stake in their government.
It's only natural, then, that businesses, institutions and families would spend more resources trying to influence public-sector decisions. Just as in many other types of behavior, political behavior is affected by costs and benefits. And the costs and benefits of influencing the government have continued to grow.

State and local governments have been cutting back some employees and reducing some activities. But in the short run, businesses and people have a lot at stake in state and local government activities, too. If nothing else, they can try to influence the composition of state and local government cuts.
Their interest in public policy is an important reason that businesses, organizations and individuals make campaign donations, and why these various parties protest against government actions in a variety of ways. 
Some people have expressed dismay at the unprecedented amounts spent on 2012 political campaigns. But heightened political spending and other forms of political participation are an expected consequence of our more active government.
As explained by a pioneer in political economy research, Gordon Tullock, the real surprise about spending on campaigns and lobbying is how little it is compared with the amount of resources controlled by governments.
The federal government spends about $4 trillion every year, and state and local governments another $2 trillion, not to mention the resources these governments control through regulatory activities.
At the same time, estimates of aggregate campaign and lobbying spending are well below than 1 percent of total government spending. For example, analysis of filings under the Lobbying Disclosure Act finds that $3.5 billion was spent on lobbying in the year 2010. 
Although economists have trouble explaining why observed lobbying spending is so little in total, economic analysis has been successful at explaining why there is more lobbying in California than, say, Vermont and why lobbying expenditure often peaks at the height of legislative activity. More is at stake.
For better or for worse, an active government begets lobbying activity.

        
When a Spending Cut Can Be Like a Tax Increase
        
Behind the Burden of Regulation
        
Gender and the Polls
        
How the Banks Endangered Medicare
        
Career Concerns in Chicago

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (60%); MEDICAID (58%); AUTOMAKERS (57%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (57%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (56%) campaign spending; Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; government spending; lobbying; politics; public policy; Campaign Finance; Lobbying and Lobbyists; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



216 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Is It O.K. to Be a Mediocre Employee?

BYLINE: JAY GOLTZ


HIGHLIGHT: Perhaps. But my businesses operate in very competitive markets and they can only exist and grow if they do a better-than-average job. 

 BODY:
I have gained tremendous insight reading the comments on this blog. One in particular really struck me recently. It came in response to a post that I had written quite a while ago, "The Dirty Little Secret of Successful Companies," and it illustrates the huge difference in perspective that can exist between the owners of companies and their employees. Here is the comment:
There is nothing wrong with being an average (mediocre) employee. Not everyone aspires to be in management. If the person meets the requirements of their current job, and they like the job and want to stay in the job, so be it. Stop trying to force people to get to the next level. The reality is that work is not the most important thing in everyone's lives. People have more important things in their life than work. Work is simply a means to get the money we need to pay the mortgage and our other bills. Work is a low-priority event for most people. I'm only willing to do the bare minimum that it takes to get a paycheck every two weeks. As long as I am meeting the requirements of my job, than that is good enough. Don't expect any more of me because I will not be a slave to any company. -- Jo-Ann Youngblood, Tulsa, OK

I get it, Ms. Youngblood. And I agree with much of what you say, including this: I could not agree more, and I have never said otherwise. We would have a big problem if everyone wanted to move into management. And I am sure that many people feel the same way you do about work being a means to an end. As you say, if you are meeting the requirements of the job, you have every right to embrace your mediocrity. The difference between you and most people, I believe, is that you know you are a mediocre employee. In fact, you defend it. Good for you. An honest, self-aware person. And I certainly agree that no one needs to be a "slave" to a company.
But I have rights, too -- and not just my right to an opinion. As the owner of a business, I have the right to avoid hiring someone who only wants to do the bare minimum to get a paycheck. In fact, if I hire too many people with that attitude, I will be out of business. This is Capitalism 101, survival of the fittest. I operate in a very competitive market. I don't have any patents, any special marketing magic, or any secret recipes. My companies can only exist and grow if they do a much-better-than-average job.
One of the ways I try to ensure that is by hiring and keeping dedicated, professional people who want to do a good or even great job. While I have no doubt that some of my 115 employees consider their jobs, as you put it, simply a means to get the money they need, they still manage to do an above-average job at work. I think a lot of people want to do a better-than-mediocre job. I think it makes them feel good. And while no one here is forced to get to the next level, some are eager to have that opportunity -- the opportunity to make more money and to enjoy the feeling of accomplishment that goes with progressing in a career. That is their right.
This works for me and, I believe, for my employees, who average nine years in tenure. Apparently your view works for you, or at least it has so far. But there is another dirty little secret of successful companies, or even mediocre ones. When business slows down and they have to lay off people, many of them turn first to the people who do the bare minimum. Or sometimes, especially if everyone is doing the bare minimum, the whole company essentially gets laid off -- by its competition.
For most people, having a job for life is no longer an option. And for many of those who have been unfortunate enough to lose their businesses or their jobs during the recent years of economic turmoil, I suspect work is now, if it wasn't always, a high-priority event. And when it comes to securing a new job, the people who do more than the minimum will have an advantage.
But don't worry, I will take your advice and not expect any more of you. If you are happy, I am happy. While I appreciate your honesty and perspective, I will hope to avoid people who share your attitude, both as an employer and as a customer.

        
Should I Give My Employees a Bonus - or Buy a Sander?
        
Solving Problems: Hiring, Visiting Competitors, an Old Web Site
        
Running the Numbers: Controlling Labor Costs
        
Assessing a Web Site That Wants to Be the eHarmony of Hiring
        
Why I Cut My Own Salary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%) comments; employees; Human Resources; labor issues; responding to readers; Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Small Business; Thinking Entrepreneur

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (54%) OKLAHOMA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



217 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Today's India Recalls the Reign of Victoria

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Sharp increases in wealth, coupled with masses of visible poor. 

 BODY:
"As Britain celebrates six decades of Elizabeth II as monarch, it is the reign of another queen that contemporary India resembles," Manu Joseph writesin The International Herald Tribune. 
During Queen Victoria's reign, he writes, "there were sharp increases in wealth, but the Industrial Revolution had also heaped a vast number of urban poor in plain sight. The accepted wisdom then was that poverty was the unavoidable curse of an unlucky majority." 
"But that notion was slowly demolished by some brilliant men and women who, in their efforts to devise a cure, were building the rudiments of modern economics. A newly enriched society was beginning to accept that abject poverty in its midst was a morally indefensible paradox. 
Sylvia Nasar, in her recent book "Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius ," describes the observations of the 24-year-old mathematician Alfred Marshall on an unremarkable day in 1867, many years before he became one of the most influential economists of his time. In Manchester, she writes, Marshall found "the smoky brown sky, muddy brown streets, and long piles of warehouses, cavernous mills and insalubrious tenements - all within a few hundred yards of glittering shops, gracious parks and grand hotels. ... In the narrow back streets he encountered sallow undersized men and stunted, pale factory girls. ..."
This could be, without any changes, a scene in any major Indian city today. The nature of the debate among Victorian intellectuals over what could be done to lift millions out of poverty, too, is echoed in the current noise in India. Should the poor be subsidized by the taxpayer, and how heavily? Would that make them less productive? What is the greater evil - the greedy corporation or the workers' union? What is the government's role?
Read the full article. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Elizabeth II, Queen of Great Britain; Joseph, Manu; Nasar, Sylvia; Demolition; Economic Conditions and Trends; Great Britain; India

PERSON: Elizabeth II, Queen of Great Britain; Joseph, Manu; Nasar, Sylvia

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (73%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (73%) INDIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (58%) Great Britain; India

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



218 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Poetry Pairing | 'Chicago'

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: This Poetry Pairing, our last one until September, matches Carl Sandburg's 1914 classic "Chicago" with a 2012 New York Times article about the sprawling freight traffic jams in that city today. 

 BODY:
This Poetry Pairing, our last one until September, matches Carl Sandburg's 1914 classic "Chicago" with a 2012 New York Times article about the sprawling freight traffic jams in that city today.
After reading the poem and article, tell us what you think - or suggest other Times content that could be matched with the poem instead. 
Finally, thank you to those who wrote to us to encourage us to continue this feature next year!
Poem
Chicago
By Carl Sandburg
 Hog Butcher for the World,
 Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat,
 Player with Railroads and the Nation's Freight Handler;
 Stormy, husky, brawling,
 City of the Big Shoulders:
They tell me you are wicked and I believe them, for I have seen your painted women under the gas lamps luring the farm boys.
And they tell me you are crooked and I answer: Yes, it is true I have seen the gunman kill and go free to kill again.
And they tell me you are brutal and my reply is: On the faces of women and children I have seen the marks of wanton hunger.
And having answered so I turn once more to those who sneer at this my city, and I give them back the sneer and say to them:
Come and show me another city with lifted head singing so proud to be alive and coarse and strong and cunning.
Flinging magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on job, here is a tall bold slugger set vivid against the little soft cities;
Fierce as a dog with tongue lapping for action, cunning as a savage pitted against the wilderness,
 Bareheaded,
 Shoveling,
 Wrecking,
 Planning,
 Building, breaking, rebuilding,
Under the smoke, dust all over his mouth, laughing with white teeth,
Under the terrible burden of destiny laughing as a young man laughs,
Laughing even as an ignorant fighter laughs who has never lost a battle,
Bragging and laughing that under his wrist is the pulse, and under his ribs the heart of the people,
 Laughing!
Laughing the stormy, husky, brawling laughter of Youth, half-naked, sweating, proud to be Hog Butcher, Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat, Player with Railroads and Freight Handler to the Nation.
Times Selection Excerpt
In the article "Freight Train Late? Blame Chicago," John Schwartz writes: 
When it comes to rail traffic, Chicago is America's speed bump. 
Shippers complain that a load of freight can make its way from Los Angeles to Chicago in 48 hours, then take 30 hours to travel across the city. A recent trainload of sulfur took some 27 hours to pass through Chicago - an average speed of 1.13 miles per hour, or about a quarter the pace of many electric wheelchairs.
With freight volume in the United States expected to grow by more than 80 percent in the next 20 years, delays are projected to only get worse.
The underlying reasons for this sprawling traffic jam are complex, involving history, economics and a nation's disinclination to improve its roads, bridges and rails.
Six of the nation's seven biggest railroads pass through the city, a testament to Chicago's economic might when the rail lines were laid from the 1800s on. Today, a quarter of all rail traffic in the nation touches Chicago. Nearly half of what is known as intermodal rail traffic, the big steel boxes that can be carried aboard ships, trains or trucks, roll by or through this city. 
...Now, federal, state, local and industry officials are completing the early stages of a $3.2 billion project to untangle Chicago's rail system - not just for its residents, who suffer commuter train delays and long waits in their cars at grade crossings, but for the rest of the nation as well. 
After reading the poem and article, tell us what you think - or suggest other Times content that could be matched with the poem instead.
See more about the collaboration and ideas for using any week's pairing for teaching and learning 

        
What Would You Name Your Neighborhood?
        
Feb. 29, 1968 | Kerner Commission Reports on U.S. Racial Inequality
        
Feb. 14, 1929 | Al Capone Gang Wages St. Valentine's Day Massacre
        
Suspended 1,353 Feet Up
        
At Risk? Investigating Dams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POETRY (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAINS (75%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (50%) Carl Sandburg; Chicago; cities; freight; infrastructure; trains; Poetry Pairings

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



219 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Are We Nearing a Planetary Boundary?

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS


HIGHLIGHT: Scientists see warning signs that the earth could be approaching a tipping point at which sweeping environmental changes threaten human welfare. 

 BODY:
The earth could be nearing a point at which sweeping environmental changes, possibly including mass extinctions, would undermine human welfare, 22 prominent biologists and ecologists warned on Wednesday.
Acknowledging in a new paper that both the likelihood and timing of such a planetary "state shift " are uncertain, the scientists nonetheless described warning signs that it could arrive within a few human generations, if not sooner.
The problems are familiar by now: they include a planetary warming that, while slow on the scale of a human lifetime, is extremely rapid on a geologic time scale, the scientists said. And human population growth and economic expansion continue to demand new resources like energy and food, to claim new land and to cut existing natural landscapes into disconnected patchworks.
Humans have already converted about 43 percent of the ice-free land surface of the planet to uses like raising crops and livestock and building cities, the scientists said. Studies on a smaller scale have suggested that when more than 50 percent of a natural landscape is lost, the ecological web can collapse. The new paper essentially asks, what are the chances that will prove true for the planet as a whole?
In interviews, scientists involved in writing the paper acknowledged that the 50 percent threshold was simply a best guess, based on extrapolating the earlier research. But they said they were deeply concerned about many of the trends on the planet and the seeming inability of the world's political leadership to grapple with them.

The situation "scares the hell out of me," said one author of the paper, James H. Brown, who is a macroecologist at the University of New Mexico and a member of the National Academy of Sciences. "We've created this enormous bubble of population and economy. If you try to get the good data and do the arithmetic, it's just unsustainable. It's either got to be deflated gently, or it's going to burst."
The new paper is one of a package of articles on the global ecological situation released on Wednesday by the journal Nature as part of the lead-up to Rio+20, a global sustainability summit meeting in Rio de Janeiro. At the so-called Earth Summit in Rio 20 years ago, the nations of the world ostensibly committed themselves to broad actions to improve the environmental situation as well as reduce risks to human society. That included a promise by George H.W. Bush that the United States would take a leading role in reducing the emissions that are causing climate change.
In the same issue of Nature, the journalists Jeff Tollefson and Natasha Gilbert come to the conclusion that the treaties that emerged from the original Rio summit "failed to achieve even a fraction of the promises that world leaders trumpeted two decades ago." 
The United States has taken only minimal steps on climate change, for instance, and global emissions have soared, not fallen, in the 20 years since the Earth Summit. Expectations for the Rio+20 conference, meant as a follow-up to the original, are low, but many environmental groups are pushing for action.
The Nature special issue was under wraps until Wednesday afternoon, and most scientists have not seen it yet. Based on history, there is little doubt that the authors of the new paper about a planetary "state shift" will be accused of alarmism. 
Their work can be seen as the latest installment of an old debate between people who perceive hard ecological limits to human population and economic growth, as these authors do, and people who think innovation will ultimately save the day, as it has done so often in the past. Many economists, in particular, fall into the latter camp. We have explored the parameters of this debate in the context of the food supply.
Yet the authors marshal clear examples of ecological disasters that have already had serious effects on human society: the collapse of cod fisheries in the North Atlantic, for instance, and the outbreaks of mountain pine beetles that are devastating forests in the West. As humans continue to push planetary limits, are we due for a lot more of this sort of thing, and on a broader scale?
Crawford S. "Buzz" Holling, one of the world's leading thinkers in the discipline known as ecological economics, who was not involved in the new paper, said he found it "surprisingly good," although he wished the authors had called more attention to the drastic changes under way in the Arctic as a result of climate change-a transformation that he sees as a harbinger of things to come.
The lead author of the new paper, Anthony D. Barnosky of the University of California, Berkeley, offered one hopeful note in an interview. He pointed out that while many species are threatened directly and indirectly by human activity, the number actually driven extinct in the past 200 years is estimated to be only 1 to 2 percent of all species on earth.
"We still have almost all the species that we regard as valuable out there to be saved," Dr. Barnosky said. "We as people have it in our power to do that."

        
On Our Radar: The Dead Zone in the Gulf
        
On Our Radar: Oil Spill Trial Postponed
        
On Our Radar: A Subglacial Lake
        
Meet Madagascar's New Lemur
        
On Our Radar: Dredging the Gowanus Canal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (79%); TRENDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); EMISSIONS (73%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); WRITERS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EROSION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (55%); POPULATION GROWTH (55%) climate changes; extinctions; Nature magazine; species; tipping points; climate change; coastal erosion; Endangered Species; forests; land use; Oceans; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; Science; Toxic Pollution; Water Quantity; wildlife

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



220 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Don't Think College Is Worth It? Ask People Who Haven't Gone

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Recent high school graduates who do not have bachelor's degrees overwhelmingly believe they will need more education to have successful careers - but most do not expect to enroll anytime soon. 

 BODY:
Last month the Heldrich Center for Workforce Development released data showing that college graduates generally do not regret going to college, despite lots of criticism of the value of higher education. Today the center released a new report focusing on the depressing state of America's recent high school graduates, who seem to agree about the importance of further education.
The study reported on a survey of high school graduates of the classes of 2006-11 who do not have college degrees and are not enrolled in school full time. This group overwhelmingly believes that additional education beyond a high school diploma is required to succeed:
Seven in 10 of these recent graduates said they would need more education if they were to have a successful career. Despite their belief in the value of post-secondary education, though, only 38 percent definitely planned to attend college to get more education in the next five years. Barriers included skyrocketing tuitions and family obligations.
Once upon a time, these young people were much more hopeful about their educational futures.
Survey respondents said that when they started high school, more than a third (35 percent) thought they "definitely" would go to college. Another 28 percent said they "probably" would go.
Minority respondents, as it turns out, were especially optimistic about their educational futures:
Among blacks and Hispanics who were recent high school graduates without bachelor's degrees, nearly half - 47 percent - said that when they began high school they had "definitely" expected to go to college eventually. Another 22 percent said they had thought they "probably" would enroll in college.
By comparison, among white graduates, 27 percent thought they would definitely attend college, and 31 percent said they would "probably" attend.
These numbers suggest just how elusive upward mobility can be for minorities. Despite low college enrollment rates among minorities over all, a large proportion of today's minority youth thought they could reach this socioeconomic milestone. Many turned out to be wrong.

        
Will You Be More Successful Than Your Parents?
        
Regrets About College
        
Young, Educated and Seeking Financial Security
        
Losing the Future: Gutting Science Training
        
Out of Community Colleges and Into For-Profits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (95%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%) American dream; Colleges and Universities; Graduation Rates; high school; is college worth it; John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Developments at R; mobility; Youth; Center for Workforce Development

ORGANIZATION: Center for Workforce Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



221 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley and Blackstone to Buy Australian Real Estate Assets

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: A joint venture owned by the two firms has agreed to acquire a $1.25 billion portfolio of troubled Australian commercial real estate loans at a major discount from the Lloyds Banking Group of Britain. 

 BODY:
LONDON - A joint venture of Morgan Stanley and the Blackstone Group agreed on Wednesday to acquire an 809 million ($1.25 billion) portfolio of troubled Australian commercial real estate loans from the Lloyds Banking Group of Britain.
The two companies will pay 388 million for the distressed assets, or less than half of their original face value.
The deal comes as the British bank looks to offload underperforming assets in overseas markets. Lloyds, in which the British government holds a stake after providing a bailout, said the sale would help to repay debt.
As the financial crisis continues to grip the region, European banks have been looking to focus on their home markets and reduce exposure to risky borrowers to bolster capital reserves.
"This transaction is in line with the group's strategy of derisking its balance sheet and reducing its noncore assets," Lloyds said in a statement.
The deal is the latest move by Lloyds to sell off parts of its Australian real estate portfolio to other financial firms. In November, it also sold $1.7 billion of distressed property loans in the country to Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. The Australian real estate portfolio generated a 183 million loss last year, according to a statement from the bank.
With the acquisition, Blackstone will add to its already sizable real estate portfolio, which includes Hilton Worldwide. Last year, the firm acquired roughly 600 malls across the United States for $9.4 billion from the heavily indebted Australian company Centro Properties. 
The deal with Lloyds is expected to close by the end of September.

        
Chinese Policies Put Squeeze On the Banks
        
The Week That Was, In Verse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%) Blackstone; Lloyds Banking Group; Morgan Stanley; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Real Estate (Commercial); Lloyds Banking Group Plc; The Blackstone Group; Lloyds Banking Group Plc|LYG|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; The Blackstone Group|BX|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions; Real Estate

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (91%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Lloyds Banking Group Plc; Morgan Stanley; The Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (91%); LYG (NYSE) (91%); LLOY (LSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%) Lloyds Banking Group Plc; LYG; NYSE; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; LYG; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; LYG; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE; The Blackstone Group; BX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (67%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



222 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Paychecks

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Republicans united against a bill that would help women more easily litigate their way to pay equality on Tuesday for the second time in two years. The measure was part of Senate Democrats' continuing effort to highlight Republican divisions over women's issues, Jennifer Steinhauer writes, reporting that the central complaint Republicans lodged against the bill was that it could create potentially onerous compliance issues for small businesses.

        
Quietly, the House appropriations committee is working hard to undo much of the president's first-term ambitions - or at least provoke a showdown with the White House before the election, Jonathan Weisman writes. At the root of the issue is the House's decision to cut domestic spending overall by $19 billion below the levels set last summer in the deal to end the debt ceiling imbroglio.

        
Mitt Romney rarely misses an opportunity to chastise President Obama for blaming the country's gloomy economic outlook on the situation he inherited from George W. Bush, Michael D. Shear reports. So it was curious to hear Mr. Romney's own aides respond to charges that he had fallen short in creating jobs during his tenure as Massachusetts governor, claiming that it wasn't their candidate's fault.

Around the Web

        
Mitt Romney's campaign has confirmed that his personal e-mail account may have been hacked, Gawker and Politico report.
Happenings in Washington

        
A bipartisan group of legislators will hold a news conference announcing the introduction of the Start-Up Act 2.0, a bill that seeks to increase America's access to talent in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields through changes in visa policy.

        
Just across the Capitol campus, Representative Donna F. Edwards, Democrat of Maryland, will host the second annual "Blastoff" event that encourages young people to pursue STEM careers.

        
Ford Motor Company will fly 75 World War II veterans to Washington to visit the World War II Memorial for the 68th anniversary of D-Day.

        
The Early Word: Recall
        
The Weekend Word: Game Changer
        
The Early Word: Mistrial
        
The Early Word: Diplomacy
        
The Early Word: New Attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WORLD WAR II (85%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICS (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); VETERANS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (81%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (81%); F (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (81%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); DONNA F EDWARDS (58%); CHET EDWARDS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



223 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Obama Heads West for Dollars and Thanks From Gay Supporters

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama begins a two-day trip through California and Nevada. 

 BODY:
Only weeks ago, a gay rights gala in Los Angeles on Wednesday night loomed on President Obama's calendar as a reminder of his awkward "evolving" but still-unsupportive stance on same-sex marriage. But then he came out in favor of the change, and now Mr. Obama heads west to collect the kudos - and dollars - of a galvanized gay community.
Chad Griffin, the incoming president of the Human Rights Campaignand a co-chairman of the gala, said that "even prior to Obama coming out for gay marriage, there was this grand contrast" between him and his Republican rival, the former Massachusetts governor, Mitt Romney, who favors amending the Constitution to ban same-sex marriage.
"But once the president came out in favor of marriage equality, I mean the passion and excitement was really unleashed," Mr. Griffin said. "Now there's no cloud over that support. An already enthusiastic base has been further motivated, further excited and further mobilized."

The annual fund-raising dinner of the LGBT Leadership Council, which Mr. Obama formed in 2007 for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender supporters as his first presidential campaign got under way, had to be moved from the site initially chosen for the gala to the larger Beverly Wilshire hotel, to accommodate the increased demand. Tickets for the gala sold out, as did far more expensive ones for a private dinner that follows the event.
According to the Obama campaign, about 600 people paid at least $1,250 each to attend the gala, which will feature television star Ellen DeGeneres and a performance by Darren Criss, who plays an openly gay high school student in the TV show "Glee." Mr. Criss is a last-minute replacement for the rock singer Pink, who had to cancel due to illness, organizers said.
For $2,500, an attendee receives preferred seating; for $10,000 a photo with Mr. Obama; and for $25,000 a couple, inclusion in a reception. After the gala, about 70 people - individuals who paid $25,000 and couples who paid $40,000 - are expected to join Mr. Obama for dinner at the Los Angeles home of "Glee" creator and gay rights activist Ryan Murphy and his fianc, David Miller. 
The Los Angeles events occur less than a month after Mr. Obama was in the city for a fund-raising dinner at the home of actor George Clooney that raised an estimated $15 million - the day after the president had announced his personal support for a same-sex marriage in a television interview. 
The timing was coincidental. While aides say Mr. Obama decided in January to declare his support for marriage equality before the election, his timetable was hastened when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., in a television interview, offered his fulsome endorsement for people of the same sex to marry and enjoy the same rights and privileges accorded to married heterosexual couples.
Before Mr. Obama flew to Los Angeles on Wednesday, he first went to San Francisco for two fund-raisers. First he attended a private discussion with 25 donors from the technology field who paid $35,800, and then spoke to a fund-raising luncheon crowd of about 250 people who paid $5,000 each.
There, in a dark wood-paneled ballroom, Mr. Obama was introduced by former professional baseball star Willie Mays, now elderly enough to require assistance mounting the stairs but energetic in recalling his disbelief that an African-American was elected president.
With a few protesters out of sight and earshot on the street below -- including environmentalists, two dressed as polar bears protesting against Shell Oil's drilling in the Arctic, and several people holding Romney signs -- the president delivered his standard campaign stump speech extolling more than two years of jobs growth but acknowledging "a lot of people are still hurting out there."
While Republicans regularly mock Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign slogan, the president told his supporters of the 2012 election, "It's still about hope and change."
Change, he said, has included the Lilly Ledbetter law making it easier for women to challenge unfair pay scales; a revival of the manufacturing sector, especially in automaking and clean energy; expanded health insurance coverage, including provisions for young adults to remain longer on their parents' policies and guaranteeing insurance for people once rejected for having pre-existing medical conditions, and the killing of Osama bin Laden and weakening of Al Qaeda.
But Mr. Obama drew the most cheers and applause when he referred to expanded coverage of women's reproductive health services and repeal of the "don't ask, don't tell" law against openly gay people in the military. 
As is usual for Mr. Obama's fund-raisers, the proceeds of the California events benefit his campaign, the Democratic National Committee and some state Democratic Party organizations. The president has been a frequent flier to California and New York, which he will visit yet again next week, not to campaign for votes (both states are reliably Democratic) but to raise money. Indeed, Mr. Obama's financial support from liberal Hollywood and Silicon Valley figures has helped to make up for diminished contributions from Wall Street since 2008.
On Thursday, before he leaves California, Mr. Obama will go to a breakfast fund-raiser at a private residence near Los Angeles. According to his campaign, about 300 people paid at least $2,500 each to join him. Then the president is off to Nevada, a crucial swing state in the election, for the only "official" event of his latest Western jaunt. 
In Las Vegas, Mr. Obama once again will address the rising costs of college education, an issue that he and Democrats in Congress have emphasized lately in part to appeal to younger voters, whose support is considered essential to Democrats' victories in November.

        
After a Day of Bad Economic News, an Invitation From Anna Wintour
        
A Drop in Fund-Raising for the Obama Campaign
        
Veterans Stick With the Republican Nominee
        
Obama Touts 'Extraordinary' Accomplishments at California Fund-Raisers
        
'Super PAC' Continues Attacks on Bain With New Video

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%); POLITICS (78%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); CELEBRITIES (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%) California; Campaign Finance; fund-raiser; gay; obama; Presidential Election of 2012; Criss, Darren; DeGeneres, Ellen; Obama, Barack; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Democratic National Committee; Democratic Party; Las Vegas (Nev); Los Angeles (Calif); Nevada; San Francisco (Calif); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (57%) Democratic National Committee; Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ELLEN DEGENERES (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE CLOONEY (58%) Criss, Darren; DeGeneres, Ellen; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); NEVADA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) California; Las Vegas (Nev); Los Angeles (Calif); Nevada; San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



224 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2423 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
After Loss, JPMorgan Regulators in Spotlight | JPMorgan Chase's regulators will be in the Washington spotlight on Wednesday, when they testify before Congress on the bank's multibillion-dollar trading blunder and its implications for the future of Wall Street regulation.
One of the bank's primary regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, will face particular scrutiny for its oversight of the JPMorgan unit responsible for a trading loss of more than $2 billion.
JPMorgan disclosed the loss from its chief investment office last month. Just months earlier, top executives from the chief investment office had traveled to Washington to persuade the comptroller that new trading restrictions threatened the future of the bank. The executives argued that the so-called Volcker Rule could prevent the powerful unit from hedging risk throughout the bank.
"This is important to maintaining the safety and soundness of JPMorgan," Ina R. Drew, then the head of the chief investment office, told comptroller officials, recalled one person who attended the meeting.
Ms. Drew was joined by five other JPMorgan executives who echoed her concerns about the Volcker Rule, saying the regulatory crackdown "could restrict or cast in doubt strategies" that the bank "successfully employed during the financial crisis," according to a memorandum summarizing the meeting. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Proposal for Tighter-Knit Banking Systems in Europe | The New York Times reports: "If endorsed by European leaders, the plan by the European Commission could spread the cost of bank rescues and demonstrate that governments are willing to cede power to the strong, centralized institutions that many economists say are needed to stabilize the currency union." NEW YORK TIMES
Public Opinion of Wall Street Grows Dimmer | According to a new survey from the Pew Research Center, highlighted by the FT Alphaville blog, 58 percent of Americans agree that "Wall Street makes an important contribution to the American economy," compared with 63 percent in 2009. In addition, 72 percent say that "Wall Street only cares about making money for itself," compared with 67 percent three years ago. PEW RESEARCH CENTER | FT ALPHAVILLE
Buffett's High School Reunion | Warren E. Buffett visited his alma mater, Woodrow Wilson High School in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, according to The Washington Post, which said Mr. Buffett told people he was in town for his 65th reunion. WASHINGTON POST
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Morgan Stanley and Blackstone to Buy Australian Real Estate Assets | A joint venture owned by the two firms has agreed to acquire a $1.25 billion portfolio of troubled Australian commercial real estate loans at a major discount from the Lloyds Banking Group of Britain. DealBook 
Barclays Unit to Buy South African Retail Credit Business for $1.2 Billion | The Absa Group, a South African subsidiary of Barclays, agreed on Wednesday to buy the retail credit business of Edcon, an African store chain owned by Bain Capital. DealBook 
Panasonic Said to Prepare Olympus Investment | Panasonic is finalizing a deal to provide 50 billion yen ($635 million) of capital to Olympus, an arrangement that would make it the biggest shareholder of the scandal-plagued company, the Kyodo News agency reported, according to Reuters. REUTERS
Berkshire Reveals a Stake in Lee Enterprises | Berkshire Hathaway, run by Warren E. Buffett, disclosed in a filing that it held about 1.66 million shares, or 3 percent, of the newspaper publisher Lee Enterprises as of March 31, The Wall Street Journal reports. The Securities and Exchange Commission had denied Berkshire's request to keep the investment secret. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chesapeake Said to Be in Talks to Sell Pipeline Assets | Chesapeake Energy is discussing the sale of its entire stake in Chesapeake Midstream Partners and other pipeline assets to Global Infrastructure Partners, a deal that could be worth more than $4 billion, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Shareholders Approve Venoco Buyout | Venoco, a California oil company, said on Tuesday that a majority of outstanding shares voted in favor of a $770 million buyout that is being led by the company's chairman and chief executive, Timothy M. Marquez. DealBook 
Oracle Buys Collective Intellect to Bolster Social Media Analysis | The technology giant said it had acquired Collective Intellect, a social media analysis firm, just a day after Salesforce.com agreed to buy Buddy Media for $689 million. DealBook 
Ancestry.com Said to Seek Buyers | Ancestry.com, the research site, is working with Frank Quattrone's Qatalyst Partners to explore a possible sale, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the situation. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sara Lee Renames North American Business | Sara Lee is naming its packaged meats business Hillshire Brands, as it spins off its European coffee-and-tea division, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Fannie Mae Names Its Top Lawyer as Chief | Fannie Mae, the government-backed mortgage finance giant, has chosen Timothy J. Mayopoulos, who was ousted in a shake-up at Bank of America at the height of the financial crisis, to be its next chief executive, Nelson D. Schwartz reports in The New York Times. New York Times
More Bankers Went Without Bonuses Last Year | According to the Options Group, an executive search firm, 14 percent of investment bankers did not receive an annual bonus last year, compared with 6 percent in 2010, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Doubts Surround Bankia Rescue | Bankia, the struggling lender in the process of being nationalized by Spain, may get less than the 19 billion euros ($23.8 billion) it is seeking, Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people. REUTERS
Moody's Downgrades Some German Banks | The banks that had their ratings cut by Moody's included the New York and Paris branches of Commerzbank, Reuters reports. Moody's assigned stable outlooks to most German banks. REUTERS
U.S. Bancorp Delivers Returns With Less Risk | U.S. Bancorp, whose chief executive says he runs a "classic" lending operation, produced the highest risk-adjusted return of all 24 banks in the KBW Bank Index in the last two years, according to an analysis by Bloomberg. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Financial Data Firm Looks to Improve Security | Fidelity National Information Services, which helps thousands of financial institutions process transactions, was criticized by regulators after security breaches in the last two years, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
I.S.S. Sides With Vector in Fight Over Technicolor | The advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services recommended on Tuesday that Technicolor investors vote in favor of Vector's plan to recapitalize the French film equipment maker, rather than a competing proposal by JPMorgan Chase. DealBook 
How Bain Capital Benefited From Government Aid | While Mitt Romney led Bain Capital, companies owned by the private equity firm received millions of dollars from various economic development programs at the state and local government levels, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bill Clinton Looks to Shift Focus From Private Equity | In an interview on CNBC, former President Bill Clinton addressed the political debate over private equity, saying, "you have examples of private equity doing good and bad things over the last decade." He continued, "I think the president was on stronger ground, I thought, when he went after what he disagreed with in Governor Romney's record as governor because that's something that's out there in the public domain." CNBC
Apollo's Real Estate Head May Step Down by Year's End | Joseph Azrack, global head of real estate at Apollo Global Management, may leave that role for a post as chairman next year, under an agreement detailed in a regulatory filing, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Blackstone to Invest Alongside Hedge Fund | The Blackstone Group has offered an additional $50 million to the hedge fund Senrigan Capital in a deal that lets the private equity firm invest alongside it, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. Senrigan, an Asian fund run by a former Citadel trader, started in 2009 with seed capital from a Blackstone fund. REUTERS
Blackstone to Acquire Industrial Real Estate Portfolio | The Blackstone Group is set to take control of the CalWest portfolio, capping a two-year effort by the firm to acquire a portfolio whose properties are valued by analysts at $2.1 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Commodity Fund Said to Lose 14 Percent in May | The $3.1 billion Astenbeck hedge fund run by the energy trader Andrew Hall was down 14.4 percent in May, putting its loss for the year at 6.4 percent, unidentified people familiar with the fund's performance told Reuters. In a letter obtained by Reuters, Mr. Hall said the month of May was a "mensis horribilis." REUTERS
Hedge Fund Hires Former Fed Governor Kroszner | EQA Partners, a hedge fund, said on Tuesday that it had hired Randall Kroszner, a former governor of the Federal Reserve whose mandate included bank supervision and regulation. DealBook 
Speculation on Next Head of Man Group | Luke Ellis, who oversees the FRM business at the Man Group hedge fund, once left finance to become a farmer. He is now said to be a possible candidate to run the group, which has contended with a flagging share price, The Telegraph writes. TELEGRAPH
Lansdowne Bets on European Stocks | The European hedge fund Lansdowne Partners has been buying Greek and Italian stocks as many investors have shunned those sectors, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Nasdaq Said to Plan Compensation for Facebook Losses | Nasdaq is filing plans on Wednesday to compensate firms that lost money in Facebook's debut, with fee discounts being considered as part of an effort to pay out more than $13.7 million, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Facebook Prepares a Broader Advertising Push | Facebook has begun to allow marketers to develop advertisements specifically for mobile versions of the social network, and it is also allowing advertisers to reach users through their news feeds, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Chinese Nuclear Firm Plans I.P.O. | The China National Nuclear Power Company is looking to raise money in a Shanghai I.P.O. to finance projects worth $27 billion, but it did not specify how much it actually planned to raise, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
China Discourages Religious Groups From Seeking I.P.O.'s | A Chinese government official was quoted in state media saying that Buddhist and Taoist temples had no right to tap public markets for cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Parker Announces Video Chat Service | The founding president of Facebook, Sean Parker, and a colleague from his Napster days announced on Tuesday a new live video chat service, Airtime, which aims to recreate the spontaneity of a bygone era of the Internet, The New York Times reports. Mr. Parker took a swipe at social sites like Facebook, calling them "boring." NEW YORK TIMES
In Silicon Valley, Weighing the Fallout From Facebook | As shares of the giant social network have slumped, several top industry players are warning that entrepreneurs could face strong headwinds. DealBook 
Mack Is Said to Back a Start-Up | John J. Mack, a former Morgan Stanley chief executive, has invested about $1 million of his own money in AHAlife.com, an e-commerce start-up, Fortune reports, without citing sources. FORTUNE
Venture Capitalists Acting as I.T. Consultants | Venture capitalists, who get early looks at software being developed by start-ups, are sometimes called upon for their insights into the latest innovations in enterprise software, Bloomberg Businessweek writes. BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
MF Global Dodged Capital Requirements, Report Says | The revelation raises new questions about MF Global's actions in its last months, in particular, how it responded to regulators. DealBook 
MF Global and the Risks Looming in the Repo Market | MF Global's crippling bets were only possible because the brokerage firm was able to borrow voraciously in a debt market that also played a big role in the collapses of Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns. DealBook 
New Risk Council to Urge Strict Financial Oversight | Sheila C. Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, is announcing a new group, the Systemic Risk Council, intended to monitor and encourage regulatory reform, The New York Times reports. She noted that key elements of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul had yet to be finalized. "The public is becoming cynical about whether the regulators can do anything right, which is undermining support for reforms," Ms. Bair said. NEW YORK TIMES
House Bill Aims to Cuth Regulator's Budget | The House Appropriations Committee introduced legislation on Tuesday that would reduce the Obama administration's request for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission by 41 percent, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Geithner Said to Challenge Bankers on Dodd-Frank | Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has asked bankers to give specific details supporting their complaints that the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul is too burdensome, Bloomberg News reports, citing four unidentified people familiar with the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Morgan Stanley to Pay Fine for Trades | Morgan Stanley is paying $6.75 million to resolve complaints that it unlawfully traded positions off CME exchanges, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Former Madoff Employee Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy | But the former employee, Craig Kugel, the son of a longtime Madoff trader, said he was not involved in Bernard L. Madoff's huge Ponzi scheme, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fed President Calls for More Central Bank Stimulus | Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said worrisome economic data indicated the Fed should take more aggressive action to foster economic growth, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); MERGERS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%); ABSA GROUP LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); WPO (NYSE) (51%); AU6A (FRA) (50%); AMAGB (JSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



225 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: In New Delhi, Panetta Defends Drone Strikes in Pakistan

BYLINE: GARDINER HARRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The military relationship between the two countries should deepen, he says. 

 BODY:
NEW DELHI - Leon E. Panetta, the United States defense secretary, brushed aside concerns on Wednesday that drone strikes against leaders of Al Qaeda in Pakistan violate that country's sovereignty.
"We have made clear to the Pakistanis that the United States of America is going to defend ourselves against those who attack us," Mr. Panetta said. "This is not just about protecting the United States. It's also about protecting Pakistan. And we have made it very clear that we are going to continue to defend ourselves."
On Monday, a Central Intelligence Agency drone strike in Pakistan's tribal belt killed Al Qaeda's deputy leader, Abu Yahya al-Libi, American officials said. Such strikes have infuriated Pakistani officials, who have demanded that they end. But the Obama administration considers them a highly effective tool in the battle against Al Qaeda.
Mr. Panetta's remarks on Wednesday, delivered during a question-and-answer session following a speech he gave here at the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, demonstrate yet again how strained the relationship between Islamabad and Washington has become.
He chuckled along with his audience about Pakistan's lack of warning before the United States killed Osama bin Laden in a raid last year near a huge Pakistani Army base. "They didn't know about our operation," Mr. Panetta said to laughter. "That was the whole idea."
Joking with a group of high-level Indians about a raid that has been keenly embarrassing to Pakistani military leaders is not likely to be received warmly in Islamabad. But Mr. Panetta made clear that the United States and India both have troubled relationships with Pakistan.
"Just as India views the relationship with Pakistan as complicated, so do we," Mr. Panetta said. "And it is."
India and Pakistan have fought three wars and still have a tense face-off over disputed boundaries. That Mr. Panetta would compare the American relationship with Pakistan with that of India's may represent a new low in the administration's assessment of its ties with Pakistan.
"It's important that you try to make what progress you can in dealing with Pakistan in trying to resolve your differences," Mr. Panetta said. "The same is true for the United States."
Mr. Panetta came to India in hopes of further strengthening the military relationship between India and the United States. But India has long been less enthusiastic than the Americans about closer ties in part because of worries that such bonds would anger the Chinese, who, like the Pakistanis, also share a disputed border with India.
"Today, we have growing economic, social and diplomatic ties that benefit both of our nations, but for this relationship to truly provide security for this region and for the world, we will need to deepen our defense and security cooperation," Mr. Panetta said. "This is why I have come to India."
Mr. Panetta is near the end of a swing through Asia during which he has promised to enhance the American military's presence in the region despite budget constraints at home. This will be accomplished in part by increasing the share of Navy ships in the Pacific Ocean while lowering them in the Atlantic, he said.
The change is widely seen as an attempt to check China's growing clout and posturing in the region. The United States sees India as a crucial partner in that effort.
On Tuesday, Mr. Panetta held what the Americans described as "productive meetings" with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Shivshankar Menon, the national security adviser. In his speech Wednesday, Mr. Panetta said that when he worked for President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, the relationship between the two countries was strained. But he noted that President Obama has called the American relationship with India one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century.
"We will expand our military partnerships and our presence in the arc extending from the Western Pacific and East Asia into the Indian Ocean region and South Asia," Mr. Panetta said. "Defense cooperation with India is a linchpin in this strategy."
Mr. Panetta pledged to streamline rules to make trade in military hardware between the United States and India "more simple, more responsive and more effective." He also urged India to change its own regulations regarding "nuclear liability legislation," a reference to a longtime call by Washington for India to change its laws to make it easier for American companies to develop civilian nuclear reactors in India. One small step in the intricate dance involving the United States, India and China was an agreement announced on Tuesday to allow the United States to resume efforts to recover the remains of some 400 airmen from World War II lost in 90 aircraft crashes in northeastern India near the Chinese border. Bad weather led to the cancellation of the searches in 2009. India has been considering whether to allow them to restart since then.
"The ability to return heroes to their loved ones is something that America deeply, deeply appreciates," Mr. Panetta said.

        
An Open Letter to India's Graduating Classes
        
Indians Host Clinton While Also Wooing Iran
        
What is the Ministry of Health Trying to Tell Doctors?
        
Meet Nancy Powell, the United States' New Ambassador to India
        
Newswallah: Bharat Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%) Defence Ministry; India; Leon Panetta; United States; Panetta, Leon V; Singh, Manmohan; Defense and Military Forces; Defense Department

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%) Defense Department

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (94%); MANMOHAN SINGH (72%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%) Panetta, Leon V; Singh, Manmohan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (97%); ASIA (79%) India; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



226 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Summers's Comment Adds to Confusion Over Extending Tax Cuts

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Confusing economic comments - first by Bill Clinton, then by Lawrence Summers - have emboldened Republicans to say they have bipartisan backing for the extension of Bush-era tax cuts. 

 BODY:
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
10:41 p.m. | Updated: A revised version of this article is available here
Confusing economic comments - first by former President Bill Clinton, then by Lawrence Summers, President Obama's first National Economic Council director - have emboldened Republicans to press for the immediate extension of all of the expiring Bush-era tax cuts, with a claim that they have bipartisan backing.
On MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program Wednesday, Mr. Summers, one of the president's closest economic advisers, was asked about Mr. Clinton's comments on the tax cuts and last week's poor jobs report. Pressed for what advice he would give the president, Mr. Summers said: "The real risk to this economy is on the side of slowdown, certainly not on the side of overheating, and that means we've got to make sure we don't take gasoline out of the tank at the end of this year. That's got to be the top priority."
The Bush-era tax cuts expire Jan. 1, 2013.
But Mr. Summers, in an e-mail after the interview, said he was not contradicting Mr. Obama, who has vowed to let tax cuts for the wealthy expire.
"I fully support President Obama's position on tax cuts," Mr. Summers said. "I have often said and continue to believe that promoting demand is the most critical short-run priority for the American economy. Extending the high-income tax cut does little for demand and poses substantial problems of fairness and fiscal prudence."
Later in the MSNBC interview, which also included Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times, Mr. Summers clearly supported tax increases on the rich, but was less clear on the time frame. 
"You've got to look to the people who've gotten the most gains from the economy over the last 30 years, and who have also gotten the biggest tax reductions," he said. "It's not taking from them. It's simply asking them to do their fair share at a time when the country has to pull together to work through some difficult problems."
Mr. Summers's comments came a day after Mr. Clinton,in an interview on CNBC, appeared to say that tax increases and Republican-led spending cuts should be temporarily set aside until the economy regains its footing. Those comments angered the Obama re-election campaign and were quickly followed by a retraction. A Clinton spokesman said later on Tuesday that the former president did not believe tax cuts for the wealthy need be extended.
Regardless of intent, political damage may have been done. Public opinion polls have consistently shown strong majorities of Americans favor deficit reduction that includes spending cuts and tax increases on the wealthy. But Republicans, who oppose any tax hikes, are on offense - thanks in part to the mixed Democratic messages.
Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio cited both Mr. Summers and Mr. Clinton, who "came out for it before he was against it," in calling for the extension of all the tax cuts "for at least a year." 
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate minority leader, said President Obama justified the extension of the Bush tax cuts for two years in December 2010 because of a struggling economy. At 1.9 percent, the growth rate in the first three months of this year was slower than the end of 2010, when the economy grew 2.8 percent.
"We have to do everything we can to grow this economy," said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader.
But Republicans gave no indication they are willing to cut a broad, antiausterity deal that would include postponing deep spending cuts to domestic programs. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority whip, said the government had grown enough. He added Republicans would not come to the table until they believed they had a White House negotiating partner.
"You need somebody on the other side who wants to make a deal, and the No. 1 way to do that is to put people before politics," he said. "And this president this year has done nothing but politics."
An earlier version of this article overstated comments Lawrence Summers, one of President Obama's closest economic advisers, made on Wednesday when asked whether the Bush-era tax cuts should be extended. While he did not take the idea off the table - saying that growth should be "the top priority" - Mr. Summers did not explicitly endorse an extension.

        
Will the Debt Deal Force Higher Taxes on the Rich?
        
Inside Look at Obama's Economic Team
        
It's Law: Obama Signs Compromise Tax Plan
        
Senate Advances Tax Cut Package
        
Senate Is Voting to Cut Off Debate on Tax Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%) Bush-era tax cuts; larry summers; Obama, Barack; Summers, Lawrence H; Federal Taxes (US); Taxation; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack; Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



227 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Pelosi to Boehner: Don't Leave Town

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: It is a classic move made by the minority party - when things are going badly in a negotiation, tell those who lead to not leave Washington. 

 BODY:
It is a classic move made by the minority party - when things are going badly in a negotiation, tell those who lead not to leave Washington.
In a letter to House Speaker John A. Boehner, Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, requested that the speaker cancel next week's recess - the ninth House recess of the year - and stay in Washington to work on the highway bill and a solution to the fight over how to extend current student loan rates, and to begin the debate over what to do about the Bush-era tax cuts.
"Instead of recessing yet again," Ms. Pelosi said, "the House should remain at work and pass critical legislation that will create jobs for the middle class that will actually be signed into law. Republicans must not run out the clock on the economy."
From time to time, Republicans call on President Obama not to take vacations or campaign fund-raising trips, and stay behind instead to hammer out legislative agreements. This tends to make everyone involved somewhat sad, because members in both parties are entering the height of the campaign season and enjoy their "district work weeks" to meet with constituents old and, hopefully, new.
College students will see the interest rate on their federally subsidized loans double to 6.8 percent on July 1 unless Congress and the White House come up with a bill plan to prevent that, at a cost of $6 billion. The House and Senate members of a bipartisan conference committee are trying to figure out a way move away from temporary extensions to the highway bill and form a longer plan, and the tax cut debate began in earnest this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (76%); WORK WEEK (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (75%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%) Boehner, John A; Pelosi, Nancy; House of Representatives; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (91%); NANCY PELOSI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Boehner, John A; Pelosi, Nancy

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



228 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Sachs Expected to Name Fewer Partners

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The firm's decision to name fewer partners comes as dozens of partners have announced plans to leave in a steady exodus over the last year. 

 BODY:
As Goldman Sachs shrinks, its elite inner circle will also be getting smaller.
The Wall Street firm is expected to name fewer than 100 new partners this fall, one of the smallest classes in recent years, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak on the record.
In an effort to reward its top consistent producers, Goldman spends months vetting potential partners every two years. Those selected are typically rewarded lavishly and have an inside track to top jobs at the firm. In 2010, 110 new partners were named.
But this year Goldman will be more selective about the select. The firm has cut its head count over the last year by more than 8 percent, to 32,400 employees, to cope with reduced revenue amid difficult markets and new regulations. Just last week Goldman laid off another 50 employees - some of them highly paid managing directors.
The size of the partnership typically shrinks in concert with the size of the staff, which means that the new members may be as few as or even fewer than those in the class of 2008, when just 94 new partners were named during the height of the financial crisis.
A Goldman spokesman declined to comment on Wednesday.
Financial companies like Goldman have been cutting back for more than a year, eliminating jobs and getting out of certain businesses. While its executives are still richly rewarded, the prospect of a smaller Wall Street elite has implications for the New York City economy and for the service and luxury businesses that depend on its largess.
Goldman's decision to shrink the new class comes at a time of high turnover among current partners. During the turmoil of the financial crisis, few partners left. Over the last year, however, there has been a steady exodus, with dozens of partners announcing plans to leave.
That has been a big help to the firm's continuing push to cut costs, as partners typically take home big pay packages. Senior partners like its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, make a base salary of $2 million. (All told Mr. Blankfein took home $12 million in compensation for his work in 2011.) Goldman sets aside roughly 40 percent of its revenue to pay employees overall.
There were 440 partners in February, the last time Goldman made a regulatory filing on the group with securities regulators. This is down from 483 at the beginning of 2011. A number of additional partners have left the firm since February, and senior management expects a few dozen more partners to leave by year's end, according to the people briefed on the matter.
But one of those people said that ideally the firm would like to have a total partner class size of 400 to 450 people. In addition to naming fewer partners, the firm is expected to shrink the size of its class of managing directors, which is one rung below that of partner. In 2011 the firm appointed 261 managing directors, who typically make a base salary of $500,000.
The selection process for new partners will heat up this summer, with current partners both nominating and vetting candidates. Goldman will make final decisions on the size of the class and who is in this fall, with an announcement most likely coming in November.

        
Goldman Gives Blankfein $7 Million Stock Award
        
It's Goldman Bonus Day

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LUXURY GOODS (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%) Goldman Sachs; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Wall Street Pay; Banking and Financial Institutions; Executive Compensation; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; New York City; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



229 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Try to Prove Incentive for Insider Tips

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Prosecutors in the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, focused on a Galleon Group fund of funds that invested in Goldman. 

 BODY:
At the end of 2007, Rajat K. Gupta had an investment in a Galleon Group fund worth $16.4 million. Less than a year later, his stake in the fund was wiped out.
Mr. Gupta's lawyers have argued that he and Raj Rajaratnam, the former head of the now-defunct Galleon Group hedge fund, had a falling out over the fund's collapse and as a result, Mr. Gupta had no reason to leak corporate secrets to Mr. Rajaratnam.
But on Wednesday, prosecutors highlighted Mr. Gupta's investment in the fund, called Voyager Capital Partners, to show that he had a financial incentive in providing Mr. Rajaratnam with inside information.
 The government has charged Mr. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, with providing confidential information about those two companies to Mr. Rajaratnam, who traded stocks based on the insider tips. The jury trial, now in its third week, is in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff. On Thursday, the government is expected to wrap up its case and the defense will begin calling its witnesses to testify.
Mr. Gupta initially invested $5 million in Voyager, which was formed in 2005. He then exercised an option to increase his stake to $10 million, according to Isvari Mahadeva, a former Galleon employee who testified for the government. Voyager was a so-called fund of funds that invested in several Galleon funds.
The government showed evidence on Wednesday that several of those other funds had investments in Goldman Sachs. Mr. Rajaratnam has been convicted of insider trading based on the information he gleaned about Goldman and other companies.
Voyager performed brilliantly at first, returning about 41 percent annually in its first couple of years. But the $400 million fund, which was highly leveraged, blew up during the financial crisis.
Much of the testimony on Wednesday about Voyager related to a complex dispute that Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam had over the value of Mr. Gupta's investment in the fund. At issue was whether Mr. Gupta's profits on his increased stake would accrue from the inception of the fund or on the date he exercised his option. A spreadsheet showed that Mr. Rajaratnam eventually agreed to the higher number, putting Mr. Gupta's stake in the fund at $16.4 million, or about $4 million more than the lower valuation.
The government called several other witnesses on Wednesday, most of whom were used to introduce documents into evidence. At one point, Judge Rakoff described the slow proceedings as "excruciating."
In one of the more unusual moments of the trial, Judge Rakoff asked a law student who has been attending to stop sending him letters about the case.
During a break, a courtroom deputy asked Benula Bensam, who had just completed her second year at Benjamin M. Cardozo Law School in New York, to participate in a private conference with Judge Rakoff and the lawyers for both sides.
It was unclear in court what the brief discussion was about, but in an interview outside of the courthouse, Ms. Bensam explained.
She said that she developed a passion for the federal rules of evidence while taking a class on the subject last semester, and wanted to attend a white-collar criminal trial. Besides, she said, she had not landed a summer job, so she believed watching the case would be a productive use of her time.
"I'm an optimistic person, and if you can't get an education in one respect, there are other things to do," Ms. Bensam said.
She said that she had sent three letters to Judge Rakoff about various evidentiary rulings that he had made in the case, posing questions about some and disagreeing with others.
On Monday afternoon, as the jury listened to testimony from Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, a federal marshal approached Ms. Bensam in the spectator's gallery and asked her to leave the courtroom. She said that several marshals interrogated her for about a half-hour and accused her of trying to improperly influence the judge.
"That was certainly not my intention," said Ms. Bensam, who lives in Woodside, Queens. "They were very aggressive and totally misconstrued what I was trying to do."
Ms. Bensam, 24, said that during the sidebar with Judge Rakoff and the lawyers, the judge politely told her that she should not write him any more notes because it could create the perception that she was trying to influence the case's outcome.
"I didn't think I was doing anything wrong," she said. "But now I know."
Alex Stein, her evidence professor at Cardozo, said that Ms. Bensam was a very bright student who stood out in his large class of 123 students. But he acknowledged that Judge Rakoff was correct to reprimand her.
"When she takes a class in professional responsibility next year she'll learn that this was something she shouldn't have been doing," Mr. Stein said. "But she was well intended, and on some level I like the passion."

        
Testimony Suggests Gupta Let Hedge Fund Manager Listen In on Goldman Calls
        
In Gupta Case, Motive Matters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUNDS OF FUNDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); WITNESSES (89%); JUDGES (89%); INSIDER TRADING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); JURY TRIALS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Galleon Group; Insider Trading; Judge Jed S. Rakoff; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat K. Gupta; Rajaratnam, Raj; Gupta, Rajat K.; Financial Services; Galleon Investigation; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (92%) Rajaratnam, Raj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



230 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Romney Touts a Book, but Reads It Selectively

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: The book, "The Escape Artists," is a behind-the-scenes account of President Obama's top economic advisers confronting the financial crisis during his first years in office. 

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO - Mitt Romney is not a candidate who often cites what he's been reading, but lately, he has referred to a book "by a guy named Noam Scheiber" to accuse the president of deliberately slowing the economic recovery to first push health reform. 
The book, "The Escape Artists," published in February, is a behind-the-scenes account of President Obama's top economic advisers confronting the financial crisis during his first years in office.
Mentioning a passage on Wednesday he called "pretty disturbing," Mr. Romney said the book recounts that within the administration, "there was discussion about the fact that Obamacare would slow down the economic recovery in this country." 
"And they knew that before they passed it," he said. "But they concluded that we would all forget how long the recovery took once it had happened, so they decided to go ahead."
It is a decision "which I think deserves a lot of explaining," Mr. Romney said.
But this account of the book, which Mr. Romney has given two or three times in recent weeks, is disputed by no less than the author, Mr. Scheiber, a senior editor at The New Republic. After Mr. Romney apparently first publicly mentioned "The Escape Artists," at a May 18 rally in New Hampshire, Mr. Scheiber posted a blog item accusing Mr. Romney of twisting his words. 
Mr. Romney's account is apparently drawn from an interview Mr. Scheiber conducted with Lawrence H. Summers, the former chief economic adviser to Mr. Obama. Mr. Summers told Mr. Scheiber that it was "unlikely" that pursuing health care would slow the recovery - not, as Mr. Romney describes, that the president's advisers knew this to be the case. Here is the passage from the book:
 "I always admired the president's courage for recognizing that 50 years from now, people would remember that all Americans had health care," Larry Summers later said in an interview. "And even if pursuing health care affected the pace of the recovery, which was unlikely in my view, people wouldn't remember how fast the recovery from this recession was." 
Mr. Romney referred to the book at a private fund-raiser in recent days, and on Wednesday, after he mentioned it at a public campaign event here, his version was disputed by the Obama campaign in a statement as "willfully dishonest."
Mr. Scheiber, in his New Republic blog post, said that although Mr. Romney misrepresented administration thinking, there was "a kernel of truth" to his interpretation of Mr. Scheiber's view in the book. 
"I argue that Obama really was more focused on long-term, historically significant accomplishments than marginal, near-term differences in the pace of the recovery," Mr. Scheiber wrote.

        
'Super PAC' Continues Attacks on Bain With New Video
        
In Iowa, Romney Warns of a 'Prairie Fire of Debt'
        
Mitt Romney Compares Obama to the Kardashians
        
For Romney's Rivals, New Hampshire Is Crucial
        
BlogTalk: New Year, Same Battles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); RECESSION (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); FUNDRAISING (66%) " the Presidential Election of 2012; "The Escape Artists; mitt romney; Noam Scheiber; obama; Romney, Mitt; Scheiber, Noam; Summers, Lawrence H; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; San Antonio (Tex); United States; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%) Romney, Mitt; Scheiber, Noam; Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Antonio (Tex); United States

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012



231 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Recall of the Wild

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins argue fiercely about Wisconsin, Governor Walker, the Tea Party and President Obama. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David I'm really sad about the results from Wisconsin. I can't find a silver lining. You and I totally disagree about what this vote means, and my analysis is much more depressing.
Although I am kind of excited about the fact that we're so opposed. You're generally so reasonable, it's hard to have a real knock-down fight.
David Brooks: As Sonny Liston said to Cassius Clay, "Bring it on." It's O.K. to have a knock-down disagreement once in a while. I'll just start out by noting that a lot of Democrats agree with me on this one. Scott Walker won easily in Wisconsin, a state that went for Barack Obama by 14 points last time and will probably go for him again (if you believe last night's exit polls, though I don't see why any of us should since they also suggested that the recall vote was close).
Gail: You see the recall as a test case on whether the public will make the hard choices when it comes to reducing our debt. I saw it as a test of the current Republican strategy of putting all the sacrifice on the backs of the un-wealthy. Announcing that public employees have to get fewer benefits and lose their power to negotiate isn't a hard choice if you happen to be the party that does not benefit from much union support.
David: I'm not sure what you mean by less wealthy. These particular public employees were receiving benefits and pensions far above those received by the median earner in Wisconsin. But this is a national problem. In state after state, from New York to Illinois to California, the lavish over-promises made to public employees are squeezing budgets, making it harder to fund schools and social programs and all the rest.
These promises weren't a Robin Hood venture. Quite the reverse.
Gail: The issue here wasn't whether the public employee benefits should be cut. Walker campaigned on that when he ran for governor and he won. But he never mentioned eliminating the unions' collective bargaining power - it was, as he said in what he thought was a private conversation with a big-bucks Republican, his "bomb." 
David: Now, as I wrote in my column the other day, I think Walker should have taken a whack out of a Republican group, too. It takes more than one governor to bring fiscal sanity, and that means you have to construct a long-term agenda that will be followed by both Democrats and Republicans. You need bipartisan buy-in.
Still, I have to give Walker credit. He did do the hard thing. The proof that it was hard was that he had to go through this whole recall effort. Not many people are willing to do that. It took guts.
Gail: Gutsy maybe, but not admirable. This is a Wisconsin version of what we see in Congress. The Tea Partiers happily slash away at programs that their voters don't care about and pretend they're being heroic. They take on special interests, but only the ones that support their opponents. That's not calling for sacrifice. That's just raiding the enemy camp when nobody's home but women and children.
David: There are some similarities between what's happening in Madison and what's happening in Washington, but I would put them differently. Both in Wisconsin and on the national level, the most expensive subsidies go to the middle and upper middle class, not to the poor. On the federal level it's Medicare. Retirees receive two or three dollars in benefits for every dollar they have put into Medicare. Their grandchildren are involuntarily paying the bill, or will be.
Strong special interests protect that benefit. Somebody has to take them on.
But this is not about poverty programs or income distribution.
Gail: I would kind of like to believe this is a country where average people can retire to a comfortable, though far from opulent, old age. But as I said, there's not much disagreement that something's got to give on pensions. The question is whether all the giving comes from one side. It's true that Walker has balanced his state's budget. But so has Andrew Cuomo in New York. Both states are going to have to make more changes to stay in the black, but to me what Cuomo has accomplished is way more impressive. He got giveback from the unions by negotiating with them. Right now, we're in a pretty good mood in New York, for New Yorkers. At least - unlike some states I could mention - we don't have any instances of people running over their spouses in an attempt to get to the polls.
David: In this case I'm with you. Walker was needlessly partisan and confrontational. I've spoken to several other governors, and the lesson they've learned is that you have to take on the sort of interests he took on, but you don't have to be so absolute about it. I've gone back and forth about whether he should have settled for benefit cuts without going after the public employee unions' collective bargaining powers.
The benefit cuts alone would have passed easily. On the other hand, the fact that states across the country face similar problems is a sign that the bargaining balance is out of whack. Private sector unions have a normal check on their ambitions that public sector unions don't have. They don't have to worry about bankruptcy and they get to elect management. F.D.R. understood all this when he called the idea of strikes by federal employees "unthinkable and intolerable."
Gail: It's unfortunate that most of what's left of organized labor is in the public sector. But crippling the union movement, wherever it's based, is bad for the country. Labor in general provides a critical counterbalance to the power of big business on all sorts of issues not directly related to their own members' benefits. And of course, the big point of this for Republicans was to take out a critical Democratic support group.
David: If Walker had lost, no leader anywhere would have wanted to take on an entrenched interest to reduce debt. It would have been ruinous to our fiscal future. And I don't see this as a verdict on organized labor as a whole. I've come to the conclusion that we somehow need to strengthen private sector unions, even as we restrain the public sector ones.
Gail: I'm going to hold you to that thought in the future. Meanwhile, how do you think this translates for President Obama? Do you think he should have given more help to the recall folks? All he did was send out a couple of tweets, but I'm not sure I blame him for not going up there to campaign. The people the Democrats needed to rally weren't really his base. I guess you could argue that he should have shown more moral courage, but I'm still giving him some cred for the same-sex marriage thing. You can't expect more than one principled stand per quarter from any elected official.
David: Nearly a fifth of the people who said they backed Obama voted for Walker. If Obama really thought Walker was wrong, it was coldhearted opportunism not to campaign. I hold out hope that Obama, in his heart of hearts, knew how bad it would be if Walker was recalled, for debt control issues everywhere.
Gail: I'm usually the one defending the president, but I don't think you can attribute this to his passion for debt control. As far as the effect on his re-election goes, I don't think you can turn this into a presidential race predictor. It may be contrary to the commentators' creed, but I still think it's too early to turn things into referendums on Obama's chances. There's a long, long time from June to November. But I am totally bummed out that this is going to encourage the Republicans in Congress to think they can continue their you-sacrifice-I'll-posture campaign for the duration.
David: I don't know if it predicts anything or not. Many people are writing that it doesn't, but they don't have a clue either.
The nice thing about Wisconsin is that voters got to see if the sky was falling before they had to vote. They looked at their schools, which are now saving money on health care and such and devoting more to education. They decided that the scare stories were not coming true. And this is in what is, presidentially speaking, a Democratic state. Voters in San Diego and San Jose, overwhelmingly Democrats, made the same call on Tuesday when they approved serious pension reforms. They are not fools.
Gail: We will agree to disagree intensely on this one. But your side definitely won the day. Alas.

        
Cairo in the Midwest?
        
Good Year and Good Luck
        
Whose Recession Is It, Anyway?
        
Are Americans Cooling on Global Warming?
        
What Obama Should Say Tonight

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%) barack obama; Collective Bargaining; Congress; scott walker; the Tea Party; Unions; Wisconsin recall; Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack; Walker, Scott K; Government Employees; Organized Labor; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Wisconsin; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (68%); MUHAMMAD ALI (55%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



232 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SINJAR JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Where Arranged Marriages Are Customary, Suicides Grow More Common

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Duraid Adnan contributed reporting from Sinjar and Baghdad.

 BODY:
SINJAR, Iraq -- With her father sitting nearby, 16-year-old Jenan Merza struggled to explain why she was lying in bed recovering from a gunshot wound.
''I didn't know the gun was loaded,'' she said, resting under a red-and-gold blanket in a stark room with a bare concrete floor.
A couple of moments later, after her father left the room to fix tea and coffee, she cried softly and admitted what really happened, how she had shot herself in the abdomen with her brother's Glock pistol after first trying with a Kalashnikov rifle -- a weapon too long to point at herself and pull the trigger.
''I tried to kill myself,'' she said. ''I didn't want to get married. I was forced to get engaged.'' 
In this desolate and tradition-bound community in the northwest corner of Iraq, at the foot of a mountain range bordering Syria, Ms. Merza's reaction to the ancient custom of arranged marriage is becoming more common. Officials are alarmed by what they describe as a worsening epidemic of suicides, particularly among young women tormented by being forced to marry too young, to someone they do not love.
While reliable statistics on anything are hard to come by in Iraq, officials say there have been as many as 50 suicides this year in this city of 350,000 -- at least double the rate in the United States -- compared with 80 all of last year. The most common methods among women are self-immolation and gunshots.
Among the many explanations given, like poverty and madness, one is offered most frequently: access to the Internet and to satellite television, which came after the start of the war. This has given young women glimpses of a better life, unencumbered by the traditions that have constricted women for centuries to a life of obedience and child-rearing, one devoid of romance.
''The society had been closed, and now it is open to the rest of the world,'' said Kheri Shingli, an official in a local political party and a writer and journalist. ''They feel they are not living their life well compared to the rest of the world.''
Last year the International Organization for Migration conducted a study on the growing suicide problem in Sinjar, where mental health services do not exist, and concluded that ''the marginalization of women and the view of the woman's role as peripheral contributed to the recent suicides.'' A report compiled this year by a researcher at a local health center concluded, ''The way to solve this is to put an end to forced marriages.''
That will probably not happen soon. In assigning blame for the rise in suicides, many people here mentioned the Turkish soap opera ''Forbidden Love.'' A romantic drama of the upper class, it is a favorite program of women here, and some people say it provides an unrealistic example of the lives that could be available outside Sinjar.
Ms. Merza said she watched the show, and she admitted, ''I wish I had that life,'' but her anguish seems more basic. At 16, she wants to remain a child.
''I want to stay with my mom and not go back to my husband,'' she said.
Ms. Merza's father, Barkat Hussein, interviewed later in private, said he was aware that the shooting was not an accident.
''We gave her to her cousin less than 20 days ago,'' he said. ''She accepted him. Like anyone who gets married, she should be happy.''
He said he would not force her to return to her husband, who lives next door. But, he said: ''I hope she will go back to him. His father is my brother.''
He, too, blamed the Turkish soap opera for his daughter's unhappiness, and he nodded toward the room where his wife was working. ''I got married to my cousin,'' he said. ''I wasn't in love with her, but we are here, living together. That's what happens here, we marry our relatives.''
Like Ms. Merza's family, a majority of the inhabitants here are Yazidis, who speak Kurdish but adhere to a religion that combines elements of Islam and strains of ancient Persian religions. Among their beliefs is a special reverence for a figure called Melek Taus, whom Muslims regard as Satan. For this, they have often been branded as devil worshipers, which has justified historical oppression of the sect by extremist Muslims.
In 2007, Sinjar suffered the deadliest coordinated terrorist attack of the war years, when several trucks packed with explosives and driven by suicide bombers exploded, killing nearly 500 people and destroying the same number of homes, most of which were made of mud.
The town's economy has historically relied on tobacco and figs, but neglect and war have rendered the agriculture industry dormant, and many men seek work as day laborers in the Kurdish cities of Erbil and Sulaimaniya. Its proximity to Syria means that refugees come from the west, and smugglers of cigarettes and weapons for the Syrian rebels trace their path back.
The area is a cordoned-off no man's land, where neither the central government nor the Kurdish regional government seems to have much control.
A visitor here might notice a big blue sign on the outskirts that reads, almost mockingly, ''Happy Land,'' the name for a dilapidated amusement park. In the early 1970s, the opening scenes of ''The Exorcist'' were filmed here among the ancient Yazidi shrines.
Officials here say that some cases that are judged as suicides are actually honor killings, in which family members kill women who commit adultery or seek to marry outside their religion or class and then cover it up by claiming suicide.
''This happens, too,'' said Dr. Majia Khalaf, who runs a government health center.
In one recent case, a father tried to claim that his 19-year-old daughter had stabbed herself to death, but her brothers were being held on suspicion of murder.
The father, Abdella Hassan, said that he had recently married his daughter to her cousin, and that shortly after the wedding she began ''talking nonsense'' and having hallucinations.
He took her to a Yazidi sheik, who said the devil had overtaken her and who advised an exorcism rite that involved covering herself in dust from a Yazidi shrine. Before the rite could be performed, the father said, he found her dead.
''I saw her happy in her marriage,'' he said. ''It wasn't that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some deaths are not suicides but honor killings. Abdella Hassan, above, said his daughter, recently married to a cousin, had stabbed herself, but his sons are accused of her murder. Right, Jenan Merza, 16, forced to wed a cousin, shot herself. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SUICIDE (90%); WOMEN (88%); FIREARMS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); JOURNALISM (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); MOUNTAINS (52%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



233 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Said to Cut Top Rungs

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
As Goldman Sachs shrinks, its elite inner circle will also be getting smaller.
The Wall Street firm is expected to name fewer than 100 new partners this fall, one of the smallest classes in recent years, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak on the record. 
In an effort to reward its top consistent producers, Goldman spends months vetting potential partners every two years. Those selected are typically rewarded lavishly and have an inside track to top jobs at the firm. In 2010, 110 new partners were named.
But this year Goldman will be more selective about the select. The firm has cut its head count over the last year by more than 8 percent, to 32,400 employees, to cope with reduced revenue amid difficult markets and new regulations. Just last week Goldman laid off another 50 employees - some of them highly paid managing directors.
The size of the partnership typically shrinks in concert with the size of the staff, which means that the new members may be as few as or even fewer than those in the class of 2008, when just 94 new partners were named during the height of the financial crisis.
A Goldman spokesman declined to comment on Wednesday.
Financial companies like Goldman have been cutting back for more than a year, eliminating jobs and getting out of certain businesses. While its executives are still richly rewarded, the prospect of a smaller Wall Street elite has implications for the New York City economy and for the service and luxury businesses that depend on its largess.
Goldman's decision to shrink the new class comes at a time of high turnover among current partners. During the turmoil of the financial crisis, few partners left. Over the last year, however, there has been a steady exodus, with dozens of partners announcing plans to leave.
That has been a big help to the firm's continuing push to cut costs, as partners typically take home big pay packages. Senior partners like its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, make a base salary of $2 million. (All told Mr. Blankfein took home $12 million in compensation for his work in 2011.) Goldman sets aside roughly 40 percent of its revenue to pay employees overall.
There were 440 partners in February, the last time Goldman made a regulatory filing on the group with securities regulators. This is down from 483 at the beginning of 2011. A number of additional partners have left the firm since February, and senior management expects a few dozen more partners to leave by year's end, according to the people briefed on the matter.
But one of those people said that ideally the firm would like to have a total partner class size of 400 to 450 people. In addition to naming fewer partners, the firm is expected to shrink the size of its class of managing directors, which is one rung below that of partner. In 2011 the firm appointed 261 managing directors, who typically make a base salary of $500,000.
The selection process for new partners will heat up this summer, with current partners both nominating and vetting candidates. Goldman will make final decisions on the size of the class and who is in this fall, with an announcement most likely coming in November.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LUXURY GOODS (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); SECURITIES LAW (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



234 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Shows Economy Growing Modestly

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A Federal Reserve survey found that the economy grew moderately in most regions of the country this spring and companies kept hiring. It was a hopeful sign after a spate of gloomy data released last week.
The Fed survey showed growth in each of its 12 bank districts from April 3 through May 25. Growth was moderate or modest in 10 districts, was steady in the Boston district and slowed in the Philadelphia region.
Hiring was steady or rose modestly, according to the Fed's report, known as the beige book. That is in stark contrast to the government's jobs report last week, which said that employers added the fewest jobs in a year in May and that the unemployment rate ticked up to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in April. 
It was the second positive reading on the economy this week. On Tuesday, a private survey found that the service sector expanded at a slightly faster pace than the previous month.
The industries the Fed surveyed cover about 90 percent of the economy and include health care, retail, construction and financial services.
The survey was mostly positive. Manufacturing and home sales improved in most districts, as did residential and commercial construction. Auto sales were strong in most areas. And businesses sought more loans, which could signal expansion plans. Small and medium-size banks in the New York district reported the most broad-based increase in loan demand since the mid-1990s.
But the survey also pointed to some weakness in the economy. Consumer spending was flat or increased only slightly in almost all districts. That could restrain growth because consumer spending drives 70 percent of economic activity.
Americans received little in the way of pay raises. Weak wage growth could also curb consumer spending in coming months.
Still, gas prices have dropped sharply since peaking on April 6. That could allow consumers and businesses latitude to spend more freely.
The beige book is released eight times a year and is based on surveys by the Fed's 12 regional banks. There are no numbers in the report. But its findings, which are released two weeks before the Fed's policy meeting, help influence the discussions.
Those discussions may be especially contentious when the Fed's board meets June 19-20. Last week's disappointing jobs report has heightened pressure on the central bank to take steps to accelerate growth and hiring.
Some Fed policy makers, who believe inflation is largely in check, may favor new stimulus measures. But other Fed officials fear that low interest rates and the central bank's previous bond-buying programs could soon push up inflation. They will most likely resist any new steps.
The Fed will also have to grapple with recent changes in the economic outlook. At its last meeting in late April, Fed policy makers slightly upgraded their forecasts. They projected growth of about 2.7 percent this year, up from 2.5 percent in January. They also nudged down their unemployment rate forecasts to just below 8 percent.
Wall Street economists, however, have since moved in the other direction, particularly in light of the dismal jobs report. Many now expect the economy to expand by only about 2 percent this year, down from earlier estimates of 2.5 percent.
Several other pessimistic reports were released last week. Manufacturing activity slowed last month, consumer confidence tumbled and a gauge of future home sales fell. Americans' incomes grew in April at the weakest rate in five months.
And the government said the economy expanded at an annualized rate of 1.9 percent in the first three months of 2012, down from 3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shuttle looms at a plant in Greensboro, N.C. Nationwide, manufacturing is mostly rising. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIS TURNER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: U.S. Productivity: Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 2005 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 MAPS: Most Regions Experienced Modest Growth: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. The survey is based on information collected on or before May 25. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (67%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



235 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: A Would-Be Christo's Hard Lesson

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
IT is not often a furniture designer makes the evening news. Takeshi Miyakawa, 50, a Japanese-born, Brooklyn-dwelling maker of delicate pieces that are both conceptual and functional, may be one of the first to do so.
Mr. Miyakawa, if you missed it, was arrested early on the morning of May 19 as he hung plastic ''I NY'' bags filled with LEDs and batteries from trees in Manhattan and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, scaring some residents who thought his art installation, timed to coincide with the International Contemporary Furniture Fair, was a series of bombs.
Charged with reckless endangerment, criminal nuisance and ''planting a false bomb,'' Mr. Miyakawa was at first given a 30-day sentence on Rikers Island and ordered to undergo a mental evaluation.
He was released the following Wednesday, nearly five days later, though the psychological assessment is pending, and he has a June 21 court date, at which time his lawyer, Deborah J. Blum, hopes the charges will be dropped or greatly reduced, she says. 
Mr. Miyakawa, a soft-spoken, courtly man with a sweet smile who is also a model maker for the global heavyweight architect Rafael Vinoly, has become something of a cause celebre, and his story has gone viral here and abroad.
While he is perhaps the least likely candidate to be an art provocateur (he was horrified, he said later, when he learned that the police had evacuated two blocks of Bedford Street for two hours), there were, nonetheless, howls of ''police state'' through the blogosphere: Was the city now devouring its creative capital?
Designboom, the online magazine devoted to design and architecture that has long covered Mr. Miyakawa's work, put up a Free Takeshi petition that quickly accrued 2,000 signatures; a Free Takeshi Facebook page had more than 3,600 members as of this week.
Mr. Vinoly, the gallerist Jeanne Greenberg Rohatyn and others wrote character references that Ms. Blum delivered to the court.
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Miyakawa was dressed in his customary uniform, a white T-shirt and green cargo pants, cleaning up his studio in the Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design Center, part of a former mill complex on Newtown Creek. He said his sister, who lives in Japan, joked that because he is used to wearing the same thing every day, prison time would be no hardship.
Yet he was clearly rattled by his tour there: he described the humiliation of being transported in handcuffs, the sleepless nights in the freezing cells, the challenge of the very public toilets. (He spent one night in a police precinct, and another in a group cell before being transferred to Rikers Island.)
But he found the inmates kind and curious. They gave him soap and a toothbrush, taught him to play Aces, offered fist bumps and words of encouragement. They threw their arms around his shoulders and posed for mock-photographs, miming a camera; they brandished newspaper articles on his arrest, and asked him to autograph them.
On his final night, one man, imposingly muscled and taciturn, who hadn't yet spoken to Mr. Miyakawa, broke his silence, telling him, ''All these famous artists suffered before they became famous.''
''I was really moved,'' Mr. Miyakawa said.
Notoriety was never his game plan. He has an architecture degree from a university in Tokyo, and came to New York in 1989 to study English and because ''the place was fascinating to me.'' To pay the rent, he found work for a high-end cabinetmaker, at first sweeping floors until it became clear that Mr. Miyakawa, whose father had taught him to make tiny toy airplanes with bamboo strips molded by a candle flame when he was 5, had deft fingers and a keen eye.
When the cabinetmaker went out of business two recessions ago, Mr. Miyakawa was hired by Mr. Vinoly's firm as a model maker, collaborating on projects like the World Trade Center competition and a $1.6 billion civic center in Tokyo.
Model making is an integral part of large-scale architectural developments (the Tokyo model, built of maple, stretched 12-by-12-by-7 feet, and cost more than $1 million), and Mr. Vinoly described Mr. Miyakawa as ''a kind of guru'' of that art.
''He epitomized this incredible manual ability in which the hands are like instruments of the brain,'' Mr. Vinoly added. ''All of that comes together with his furniture, that sense of quality and rigor in terms of design.''
Mr. Miyakawa began making furniture for the Vinoly offices before opening his own studio a decade ago.
His ''Fractal 23'' is a Rubik's cube of a piece fitted with 23 drawers, some as small as a thumb. There are Japanese beer-bottle caps in two of them. ''There used to be a little foam mouse, but someone stole it,'' said Mr. Miyakawa, pocketing the bottle caps.
This was his breakout piece: a near-mathematical conundrum, to fit 23 drawers in a perfect cube, and a star of the design blogs in 2008. When asked at the time about its price, he gave it a whopper, $20,000, because it was such a pain in the neck to make he didn't want to encourage any orders.
Were there any takers? ''No, but it's O.K.,'' he said. ''I'm busy, and I don't like making the same thing over and over.'' He added that he'd let the piece go for $9,000.
Glancing around the room, you note that his work is ethereal and emotional. His ''Infinity Chair'' is a lean, linear iteration of a courting chair.
Mr. Miyakawa sat on one side, motioning a visitor to sit in the other seat. ''If I look this way and you look that way,'' he said, indicating the sitters' opposing gazes, ''in billions of years we'll be looking at each other. I read that somewhere and I think that's kind of romantic.''
There are tiny models striding about his studio desk and a fat beam above, doll-size furniture made from foam and wire, paper and balsa wood. A minuscule wire chair sports an eensy toilet seat.
Floating nearby, a tubular acrylic sculpture that replicates the pedestrian tunnels of the subways underneath Grand Central Terminal is filled with ghostly human silhouettes, barely 3/8-inch high. Mr. Miyakawa calls the piece ''Two-legged Ant'' for its resemblance to an ant farm.
His most recent work is a chandelier -- a ''Candelier'' -- made from candle wax. ''Eventually the whole thing will melt,'' he said. There are three in various stages of meltdown hanging about.
His ''I NY'' installation was, he said, his first public art adventure, and he is still abashed by the trouble it caused. But he was heartened by the outpouring of support and suggested that perhaps, in the end, his love note had the effect he had sought, which is to say it elicited a kind of civic group hug.
It is his colleagues and friends who remain indignant.
''The fact that Takeshi Miyakawa is such a warmhearted person, who carries such love for the city of New York, is partially what makes the story shocking and upsetting,'' Birgit Lohmann, editor and a founder of Designboom, wrote by e-mail. ''But more fundamentally these events have also raised important questions about public art, the criteria for criminal charges, and the validity of past records and professional standing in both work and character.''
(By way of describing his modest habits, Ms. Lohmann related how Mr. Miyakawa had brought a vacuum with him to sweep up the ''almost nonexistent dust'' that resulted from drilling a screw hole or two in his piece, an undulating swoop of corrugated vinyl filled with compact fluorescent lights, for Designboom's exhibition booth at the Javits Convention Center, where the furniture fair is held. ''I wanted to make it dustless,'' he explained later.)
Anne Pasternak, president and artistic director of Creative Time, the foundation that has been producing majestic and impish public art projects for nearly two decades, pointed out that the New York City slogan about public vigilance, ''If you see something, say something,'' could be taken as the mission of public art.
''You hope it encourages people to talk about it,'' she said. ''The vitality of a place like New York relies on creative people making interventions in the city. We should be celebrating that and not throwing artists into Rikers Island. It's not all about business and real estate.''
Ms. Pasternak was particularly moved by Mr. Miyakawa's subversion of a common urban blight -- plastic bags entangled in city trees -- into something lovely and uplifting.
Still, she said, he might have benefited from some advice from more experienced art interventionists. ''We don't have those problems at Creative Time,'' she said. ''We know you can't touch a New York City tree without permission from the Parks Department.''
Mr. Vinoly would certainly agree. He said he finds the blogging chatter claiming Mr. Miyakawa as a hero of the oppressed plainly irritating, and Mr. Miyakawa's behavior simply naive.
''It was a stupid mistake,'' Mr. Vinoly said. ''A piece of visceral public art is like architecture. I can't build a building without getting a permit. All he needed to do was ask for permission. I don't like people to suffer for things that aren't really necessary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEWSMAKER: Takeshi Miyakawa and his work: ''Candelier'' is made from candle wax. Top right, ''Rabbit Chair''
middle right, ''Fractal 23'' contains 23 drawers
 below right, ''14 + 1'' shelving. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (77%); SENTENCING (75%); PETITIONS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); CRIMINAL NUISANCE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



236 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Sharing the Air

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN

 BODY:
Cellphone carriers like AT&T and Verizon say they are worried about running out of the radio spectrum that carries wireless calls and data, and they want the government to give them more chunks of it. But a number of companies are developing technology that could change the whole spectrum game by using radio frequencies more efficiently.
Their efforts are getting a powerful endorsement. A presidential advisory committee, which includes executives from Google and Microsoft, plans to present a report this month that explores ways in which computerized radio technologies could make better use of spectrum.
In a presentation last month, the committee said the technologies would allow federal agencies and other organizations to share the spectrum bands they control with the carriers, and could potentially improve efficiency by a factor of 40,000. 
One technology addressed by the report is called cognitive radio, in which cellphones scan for available frequencies and choose the best one to use. For example, if the government has reserved some spectrum for use at an Air Force bombing range, but no bombing is happening on a particular day, cognitive radio could allow a phone to sense the open channel and switch to it.
A Florida-based company, xG Technology, developed a version of cognitive radio for the Army that allows communication on military bases. Its technology scans for open channels and clears up interference on busy channels so more people can use them.
Rick Rotondo, vice president for marketing at xG, compared its technology to noise-canceling headphones, which listen for noise and generate a signal to cancel it out. In a similar way, xG's cognitive radio technology listens for interference and calculates a way to reduce it, he said.
Cellphone carriers have been warning the government about a looming ''spectrum crisis'' -- a situation in which the rising demand for wireless data will eventually exhaust their resources. This, they say, could slow mobile devices and stifle the economy. But the report suggests that spectrum constraints could be resolved if the government were to push carriers to embrace technologies that provide greater efficiency.
John C. Coleman, chief executive of xG Technology, said concerns over spectrum capacity were valid, because the techniques that the carriers are now using will lead to a shortage. But newer technologies, he said, would fix the problem.
''The spectrum crisis is completely avoidable,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''If we start incorporating advanced and proven technologies like cognitive radios and smart antenna systems now, we can get ahead of the mobile broadband demand curve and stay ahead of it.''
Other companies in this industry include Shared Spectrum, which has also developed cognitive radio systems for the Defense Department, and Cognitive Radio Technologies, which is working to commercialize technology developed at Virginia Tech.
Some veterans of the wireless industry, like Martin Cooper, a former Motorola executive who helped create the first cellphone, have been saying all along that technology could be the answer to the wireless industry's growing pains.
''The committee is proposing the approach that I've been advocating for over 20 years,'' he said. ''The magic that makes all of this work is already known.''
Mr. Cooper said that even if the government granted the carriers a little bit more spectrum, there would be no guarantee that it would be enough to handle the ever-rising number of data-guzzling smartphones and tablets.
''How can 20 percent more spectrum -- which is, in their wildest dreams, as much as they're ever going to get -- how can that solve the problem when you need 20 times more spectrum?'' he said. ''They're not using technology that exists today and was demonstrated 10 years ago.''
The major carriers have seemed wary of any technology that might reshape the status quo in their business. CTIA, the wireless association that represents the carriers, has said that its members are excited about the idea of spectrum sharing, but that giving the carriers more spectrum should still remain the government's top priority.
Chris Guttman-McCabe, vice president for regulatory affairs at CTIA, said he was skeptical about cognitive radio technology in general because it had not yet been used commercially and it was unclear whether the technology would be a viable solution nationwide.
The association says that even if the technologies described in the report can indeed improve spectrum capacity a thousand times, it wants the government to make more spectrum available by ''clearing'' frequencies that are currently underused.
But if the technologies succeed in delivering so much extra capacity, why would carriers need more spectrum? Mr. Guttman-McCabe said that it was not clear who would get access to the spectrum that would be shared with federal agencies, and how often the carriers would get to use it. He said it would still be preferable for the wireless industry to have more spectrum for itself.
''We're eager to see that the administration is going to focus on clearing spectrum and that the fallback will be sharing -- that the gold standard is trying to find cleared spectrum,'' Mr. Guttman-McCabe said.
Even if President Obama chose to adopt newer technologies for spectrum sharing, it would take some time to roll out all of the technology required to get a big increase in efficiency. For example, for cognitive radio to work in the mass market, smartphones would need to ship with more advanced antennas and circuitry so they could scan for clearer channels, Mr. Rotondo said.
Cognitive radio is one of several technologies that could help make better use of radio spectrum. Mr. Cooper said he had more faith in nearer-term solutions, like smart antennas. A conventional radio antenna on a cellphone tower spews energy out in all directions. By contrast, a smart antenna would direct energy straight at the phones, reducing congestion. (Mr. Cooper previously founded ArrayComm, a company that made software for smart antennas, but he is no longer associated with it.)
One approach that is being tested on cell networks is femtocells, which are also called small cells. Some femtocells, which consumers can buy to install in their homes, are designed to improve cellphone reception by routing calls and data over broadband connections.
Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said at a CTIA Wireless conference last month that small cells would be critical to meeting the rising demand for mobile data because they allowed carriers to build a denser patchwork of cells.
''Small cells are a big deal,'' he said during a keynote session. ''The small-cell revolution will drive enormous change in wireless in the coming years.''
The commission will be holding proceedings on making a band of spectrum available for carriers to install small cells on their networks, reducing the pressure on the carriers' main spectrum bands.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John C. Coleman, left, and Scott Garlington of xG Technology, which is developing ways of sharing the radio spectrum. (B1)
 An xG Technology demonstration vehicle. The company can provide access to the Internet even from remote locations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (79%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (79%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ARMIES (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (73%); BROADBAND (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AIR FORCES (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



237 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Hospital Blocs Look to Merge, Forming Giant

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Two of New York City's biggest hospital systems reached agreement on Wednesday to pursue a merger that would shake up the way medical care is delivered, especially in Manhattan, where hospitals compete to serve some of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the world.
The proposed merger would bring together NYU Langone Medical Center, a highly specialized academic medical center, and Continuum Health Partners, a network of several community-oriented hospitals, including Beth Israel and the two St. Luke's-Roosevelt campuses. 
It would create one of the largest health care systems in the city, one that would have immense market power under the new federal health care system, and put pressure on independent medical practices, insurance companies and even rival medical schools, which may have to find other places to train their students.
The deal was outlined in a memorandum of understanding approved on Tuesday and Wednesday by the boards of both nonprofit organizations, and it is still subject to final confirmation by the boards. It would also need regulatory approval, and at least one patient advocacy group promised to challenge it.
By strengthening its competitive advantage, a merged hospital system could limit options for patients and charge more for services, advocates fear. It would also have more power to negotiate higher rates with insurance companies, which might be passed on to consumers in the form of higher premiums.
The proposed merger comes amid a wave of health care consolidations around the country, driven by shrinking reimbursements from insurers and the government and by mandates of the federal health care law to operate more efficiently and at lower cost. Hospitals are combining with other hospitals, doctor's offices and even insurance companies as payment models shift from fee-for-service to a per-person rate in which providers are expected to manage most of a patient's care, requiring coordination among doctors and facilities.
''Economists have for some time now worried about the ceaseless consolidation on the supply side of the health care market, facing a much more splintered payment side with less market power,'' Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University, said Wednesday.
The memorandum of understanding is essentially an agreement to share proprietary information, including financial, technology and personnel data, that would be needed to make a final decision to merge, most likely within six months. It is not binding, but it is a signal, as one hospital official said, that the proposal has gone beyond courtship to the engagement stage.
In a joint statement on Wednesday evening, the boards said they would explore how their partnership ''could create a fully integrated health care delivery system for the benefit of the people they serve, including underserved populations.''
''Both entities expect,'' it added, ''that a successful partnership would achieve economies of scale that reduce health care costs while enhancing the quality of care and allowing for investment in new facilities.''
Any merger would have to be reviewed by the Federal Trade Commission, which would consider any antitrust implications, as well as by the State Health Department and the State Dormitory Authority, a financing and construction agency that carries some debt for Continuum.
At least one trustee suggested that the hospitals would argue that their market share should be looked at in the context of New York City as a whole -- perhaps even the nation -- and not just Manhattan. ''You have to be competitive,'' the trustee said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because, he said, any public comment would be scrutinized by the regulatory agencies. ''More and more of the reimbursement is going to be tied to lowering your costs, not raising your costs.''
The new organization would capture a huge swath of Manhattan, including some of its most affluent neighborhoods. It would be a formidable rival in the fight for patients and market share with the current behemoth among New York City hospital systems, New York-Presbyterian, which was created by a 1998 merger of what are now known as Columbia University and Weill Cornell Medical Centers.
''We don't have any information or knowledge, so we really can't speculate or comment on it,'' Myrna Manners, a spokeswoman for New York-Presbyterian, said of the proposed merger.
The hospital with perhaps the most to lose would be Mount Sinai Medical Center, like NYU an academic medical center, which would be geographically sandwiched between the two chains. Dorie Klissas, a spokeswoman for Mount Sinai, said its system was expanding and had clinical affiliations and physician practices across the city and suburbs. ''Our growing network confirms that there is an ample number of patients to serve,'' Ms. Klissas said.
Officials said it was premature to predict that New York University Medical School would expand, but the merger could open up more hospital training slots for NYU medical students and cause Continuum's current affiliates -- Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and New York Medical College -- to lose some.
Mergers often lead to the elimination of some specialty services that are duplicated among the combining hospitals. But officials at the hospitals, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements, said the two organizations would deliver services more efficiently and would complement each other. They would bring in patients with a wider variety of ailments than either hospital does now.
Continuum would bring its strong primary care and emergency medicine programs into the mix, and NYU could contribute its standing as an academic institution and its specialty physicians and technology.
But patient advocates may resist such a powerhouse.
''That's really too bad,'' Judy Wessler, director of the Commission on the Public's Health System, said of the decision to move forward. She said her group would ask regulators to reject the merger.
Nisha Agarwal, deputy director of the Center for Popular Democracy, an advocacy group for low-income people, said she was ''concerned about the antitrust implications and the impact on consumers,'' but was not yet sure whether her group would file a legal challenge.
Dr. Reinhardt said that while hospitals talked about synergy and public interest, the biggest impact of such a merger would be to give them more leverage with insurance companies. But the insurance side has also been consolidating, he said, leading to a tug of war with hospitals.
''So a hospital can literally tell an insurer you either take our prices or you take a walk, and that's what's happening,'' he said. ''Both sides always justify that, not on the basis of crude market power -- we want more market power to get better prices -- they always find some kind of high national purpose.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beth Israel Medical Center on the Lower East Side. At right, NYU Langone Medical Center in Midtown Manhattan on Wednesday. The hospitals may become affiliated under a new proposal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MERGERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



238 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; INDIA INK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Defense Chief Shrugs Off Objections To Drones

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
2:50 a.m. Updated Read a revised version of this post here.
NEW DELHI - Leon E. Panetta, the United States defense secretary, brushed aside concerns on Wednesday that drone strikes against leaders of Al Qaeda in Pakistan violate that country's sovereignty.
''We have made clear to the Pakistanis that the United States of America is going to defend ourselves against those who attack us,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''This is not just about protecting the United States. It's also about protecting Pakistan. And we have made it very clear that we are going to continue to defend ourselves.'' 
On Monday, a Central Intelligence Agency drone strike in Pakistan's tribal belt killed Al Qaeda's deputy leader, Abu Yahya al-Libi, American officials said. Such strikes have infuriated Pakistani officials, who have demanded that they end. But the Obama administration considers them a highly effective tool in the battle against Al Qaeda.
Mr. Panetta's remarks on Wednesday, delivered during a question-and-answer session following a speech he gave here at the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, demonstrate yet again how strained the relationship between Islamabad and Washington has become.
He chuckled along with his audience about Pakistan's lack of warning before the United States killed Osama bin Laden in a raid last year near a huge Pakistani Army base. ''They didn't know about our operation,'' Mr. Panetta said to laughter. ''That was the whole idea.''
Joking with a group of high-level Indians about a raid that has been keenly embarrassing to Pakistani military leaders is not likely to be received warmly in Islamabad. But Mr. Panetta made clear that the United States and India both have troubled relationships with Pakistan.
''Just as India views the relationship with Pakistan as complicated, so do we,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''And it is.''
India and Pakistan have fought three wars and still have a tense face-off over disputed boundaries. That Mr. Panetta would compare the American relationship with Pakistan with that of India's may represent a new low in the administration's assessment of its ties with Pakistan.
''It's important that you try to make what progress you can in dealing with Pakistan in trying to resolve your differences,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''The same is true for the United States.''
Mr. Panetta came to India in hopes of further strengthening the military relationship between India and the United States. But India has long been less enthusiastic than the Americans about closer ties in part because of worries that such bonds would anger the Chinese, who, like the Pakistanis, also share a disputed border with India.
''Today, we have growing economic, social and diplomatic ties that benefit both of our nations, but for this relationship to truly provide security for this region and for the world, we will need to deepen our defense and security cooperation,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''This is why I have come to India.''
Mr. Panetta is near the end of a swing through Asia during which he has promised to enhance the American military's presence in the region despite budget constraints at home. This will be accomplished in part by increasing the share of Navy ships in the Pacific Ocean while lowering them in the Atlantic, he said.
The change is widely seen as an attempt to check China's growing clout and posturing in the region. The United States sees India as a crucial partner in that effort.
On Tuesday, Mr. Panetta held what the Americans described as ''productive meetings'' with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Shivshankar Menon, the national security adviser. In his speech Wednesday, Mr. Panetta said that when he worked for President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, the relationship between the two countries was strained. But he noted that President Obama has called the American relationship with India one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century.
''We will expand our military partnerships and our presence in the arc extending from the Western Pacific and East Asia into the Indian Ocean region and South Asia,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''Defense cooperation with India is a linchpin in this strategy.''
Mr. Panetta pledged to streamline rules to make trade in military hardware between the United States and India ''more simple, more responsive and more effective.'' He also urged India to change its own regulations regarding ''nuclear liability legislation,'' a reference to a longtime call by Washington for India to change its laws to make it easier for American companies to develop civilian nuclear reactors in India. One small step in the intricate dance involving the United States, India and China was an agreement announced on Tuesday to allow the United States to resume efforts to recover the remains of some 400 airmen from World War II lost in 90 aircraft crashes in northeastern India near the Chinese border. Bad weather led to the cancellation of the searches in 2009. India has been considering whether to allow them to restart since then.
''The ability to return heroes to their loved ones is something that America deeply, deeply appreciates,'' Mr. Panetta said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta with Indian troops on Wednesday in New Delhi, where he said drone strikes protect both the United States and Pakistan. (POOL PHOTO BY JIM WATSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (88%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



239 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Fixing Lending In Small Business

BYLINE: By AMI KASSAR

 BODY:
This is my first post for You're the Boss. I hope to add my two cents by shining some light on the state of small-business lending in the United States.
It might help if you understand what I do in my day job. I am a small-business owner myself. Two and a half years ago, like millions of Americans in the Great Recession, I lost my job - a cushy corporate job with a company where I had worked for a decade and from which I had expected to retire. The company, Advanta, went bankrupt.
The day after I was fired by the bankruptcy trustees, I started my own company, MultiFunding. The mission of MultiFunding is to help small-business owners and entrepreneurs through the challenges of getting the loans and working capital they need for their businesses. We serve as brokers, helping business owners find the right sources of capital for their companies. 
Over the past two and a half years I have worked with hundreds of small-business owners across the country in all types of industries and at all stages. We have seen some companies that are exploding with growth and others that are exploding with too much debt. We have seen some companies with too few sales and others with more sales than they can handle. We have seen small-business owners who almost seem to be printing money and have little trouble finding financing and others who can't find it anywhere. And of course, we have seen many companies that fall somewhere in between.
These experiences have convinced me that the small-business lending market is poorly understood - and with good reason. There are now loan products out there with annual percentage rates of 4 or 5 percent and others as high as 60 or even 80 percent. In part, this is the unintended consequence of the big banks' tightening up their lending; that tightening created a vacuum that has been filled by a whole new world of alternative lending companies that have opened to take advantage of the situation. Many of these alternative lenders are backed by hedge funds that demand high returns. Many small-business owners find dealing with these companies painful, but in many cases they feel they have no choice.
In our efforts to match borrowers with lenders at MultiFunding, we never work for the lenders. We are always trying to help the borrowers get the best loans for their situations: the lowest possible price with the best possible terms. We never take upfront fees from our clients, and we work purely on a success fee. And we only take on clients we think we can help. In other words, we eat if we are able to get successful outcomes for our clients; if not, we're out of luck.
Going through this process, over and over, we have learned a lot of valuable lessons that I hope to share with you on this blog. Here are three broad themes that I plan to cover.
Small-Business Lending Is a Highly Inefficient Market
Few owners have the time to investigate the ins and outs of the credit markets. The processes are confusing and overwhelming. If you type ''small business loan'' into Google, you will find a myriad of options but little help figuring out which ones make sense for your company's particular situation. If you stop in at a branch of a large bank, you most likely will meet employees who are not really empowered to help you and do not really have time to dig into the nuances of your business. I will try to bring some clarity to this situation, so that perhaps a few more owners will know what to expect and will make informed choices. And perhaps the market will become a little more efficient.
Small-Business Lending Is a Confusing Mess
Why has there been so much less lending the last few years? Have the banks simply stopped making the too-risky loans they were making before the economic crisis hit? Did they overreact and stop making even sound loans to sound companies? Or did lending drop because after the recession, businesses started to retrench and their demand for credit declined? Did all banks stop lending or was it just the big banks? It is very hard to get definitive answers to these kinds of questions.
One reason is that we can't even agree on important definitions. The Small Business Administration reports on lending activity, but nobody knows what percentage of overall lending the S.B.A. accounts for. The big banks release their scorecards on small-business lending but they define small businesses as those with revenue of $20 million or less. For its reports, the Federal Reserve defines small businesses as having revenue of $50 million or less. For its reports, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation defines small-business loans as those with balances of $1 million or less. The merchant cash advance lenders and factors do not release reports at all.
Many Small Business Owners Are Still Reeling
We have been reading reports that the recession is over and that the economy is on the mend. I can assure you that for most small-business owners that we talk to at MultiFunding, this is far from the case. Many are still reeling from the recession and struggling to catch up. Working capital is a fight. Banks are not easy to deal with, and fair loans are tough to come by. If you own a retail or service business, it is even harder.
I plan to dig deeper into these issues in coming posts.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); WORKING CAPITAL (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



240 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Try to Prove Incentive for Insider Tips

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
At the end of 2007, Rajat K. Gupta had an investment in a Galleon Group fund worth $16.4 million. Less than a year later, his stake in the fund was wiped out.
Mr. Gupta's lawyers have argued that he and Raj Rajaratnam, the former head of the now-defunct Galleon Group hedge fund, had a falling out over the fund's collapse and as a result, Mr. Gupta had no reason to leak corporate secrets to Mr. Rajaratnam.
But on Wednesday, prosecutors highlighted Mr. Gupta's investment in the fund, called Voyager Capital Partners, to show that he had a financial incentive in providing Mr. Rajaratnam with inside information. 
The government has charged Mr. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, with providing confidential information about those two companies to Mr. Rajaratnam, who traded stocks based on the insider tips. The jury trial, now in its third week, is in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff. On Thursday, the government is expected to wrap up its case and the defense will begin calling its witnesses to testify.
Mr. Gupta initially invested $5 million in Voyager, which was formed in 2005. He then exercised an option to increase his stake to $10 million, according to Isvari Mahadeva, a former Galleon employee who testified for the government. Voyager was a so-called fund of funds that invested in several Galleon funds.
The government showed evidence on Wednesday that several of those other funds had investments in Goldman Sachs. Mr. Rajaratnam has been convicted of insider trading based on the information he gleaned about Goldman and other companies.
Voyager performed brilliantly at first, returning about 41 percent annually in its first couple of years. But the $400 million fund, which was highly leveraged, blew up during the financial crisis.
Much of the testimony on Wednesday about Voyager related to a complex dispute that Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam had over the value of Mr. Gupta's investment in the fund. At issue was whether Mr. Gupta's profits on his increased stake would accrue from the inception of the fund or on the date he exercised his option. A spreadsheet showed that Mr. Rajaratnam eventually agreed to the higher number, putting Mr. Gupta's stake in the fund at $16.4 million, or about $4 million more than the lower valuation.
The government called several other witnesses on Wednesday, most of whom were used to introduce documents into evidence. At one point, Judge Rakoff described the slow proceedings as ''excruciating.''
In one of the more unusual moments of the trial, Judge Rakoff asked a law student who has been attending to stop sending him letters about the case.
During a break, a courtroom deputy asked Benula Bensam, who had just completed her second year at Benjamin M. Cardozo Law School in New York, to participate in a private conference with Judge Rakoff and the lawyers for both sides.
It was unclear in court what the brief discussion was about, but in an interview outside of the courthouse, Ms. Bensam explained.
She said that she developed a passion for the federal rules of evidence while taking a class on the subject last semester, and wanted to attend a white-collar criminal trial. Besides, she said, she had not landed a summer job, so she believed watching the case would be a productive use of her time.
''I'm an optimistic person, and if you can't get an education in one respect, there are other things to do,'' Ms. Bensam said.
She said that she had sent three letters to Judge Rakoff about various evidentiary rulings that he had made in the case, posing questions about some and disagreeing with others.
On Monday afternoon, as the jury listened to testimony from Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, a federal marshal approached Ms. Bensam in the spectator's gallery and asked her to leave the courtroom. She said that several marshals interrogated her for about a half-hour and accused her of trying to improperly influence the judge.
''That was certainly not my intention,'' said Ms. Bensam, who lives in Woodside, Queens. ''They were very aggressive and totally misconstrued what I was trying to do.''
Ms. Bensam, 24, said that during the sidebar with Judge Rakoff and the lawyers, the judge politely told her that she should not write him any more notes because it could create the perception that she was trying to influence the case's outcome.
''I didn't think I was doing anything wrong,'' she said. ''But now I know.''
Alex Stein, her evidence professor at Cardozo, said that Ms. Bensam was a very bright student who stood out in his large class of 123 students. But he acknowledged that Judge Rakoff was correct to reprimand her.
''When she takes a class in professional responsibility next year she'll learn that this was something she shouldn't have been doing,'' Mr. Stein said. ''But she was well intended, and on some level I like the passion.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rajat Gupta is charged with providing secret information. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); JUDGES (89%); WITNESSES (89%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); JURY TRIALS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



241 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Central Banks' Actions Help Buoy Markets

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
Stocks surged on Wednesday as remarks from a Federal Reserve official stirred stimulus hopes and after stocks in Europe rose when the European Central Bank kept the door open to making a future cut to its benchmark interest rate.
The gains in equities gave the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index their best daily performance in 2012 and propelled the Dow back into positive territory for the year.
Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president, said that some of the 23 members of the central bank's governing council had argued for an interest rate cut in advance of Wednesday's decision to stand pat on rates, and he left open the option of a cut later on. ''We will stand ready to act,'' he said. 
The central bank also promised to continue to provide European Union commercial banks with effectively unlimited low-interest loans, at least through the end of 2012. That move came as Mr. Draghi noted the increased level of stress in Europe and signs of flagging growth.
Howard Archer, IHS Global Insight's chief British and European economist, said there were ''clear indications that an interest rate cut is now in the cards'' because Mr. Draghi had stated that a ''few'' governing council members favored a cut in discussions leading up to Wednesday's inaction.
''We expect the E.C.B. to deliver an interest rate cut to 0.75 percent in July,'' Mr. Archer wrote in a research report.
Rick Bensignor, the chief market strategist for Merlin Securities, said Mr. Draghi's remarks that he was ready to act if things got worse also helped stocks.
Other analysts noted that a rate cut on Wednesday would have had a limited impact because short-term rates were already close to zero.
Stocks also may have been buoyed after Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Atlanta Federal Reserve, signaled that stimulus was still an option.
In a speech in Florida on Wednesday, Mr. Lockhart said that if help was needed to spur growth in the United States, ''further monetary actions to support the recovery will certainly need to be considered.''
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 286.84 points, or 2.37 percent, to 12,414.79, giving it a 1.6 percent gain so far this year. The S.& P. 500 gained 29.63 points, or 2.30 percent, to 1,315.13. The last time each of those indexes had a better daily finish was on Dec. 20, 2011. The Nasdaq composite index rose 66.61 points, or 2.40 percent, to 2,844.72.
Earlier, European stocks closed sharply higher, with the Euro Stoxx 50 and indexes in Germany, France, Spain and Britain up more than 2 percent.
Bond prices fell for the third consecutive session. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 26/32, to 100 26/32, and the yield rose to 1.66 percent from 1.57 percent late Tuesday.
Energy and financial stocks rose the most among the S.& P. 500's sectors, with energy gaining about 3 percent and financial stocks 2.9 percent. Bank of America rose 7.6 percent, to $7.64. Citigroup was up 5.4 percent, to $27.14. Morgan Stanley rose more than 8 percent, to $13.94.
Crude oil futures rose in New York trading, by about 1 percent. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of a broad range of commodity futures prices rose 1.25 percent but remains down more than 10 percent or the year.
In currency markets, the euro rebounded from just below $1.2453 to $1.2576.
A currency analyst, Christopher Vecchio of DailyFX, said Mr. Draghi's remarks that the E.C.B. was watching economic conditions closely also contributed to the rally.
''Over all, it's difficult to say that President Draghi was optimistic,'' Mr. Vecchio said. ''He noted that 'euro-area growth remains weak' and that the 'economic outlook is subject to downside risks.' ''
The central bank president also mentioned market tensions and unemployment weighing on the euro zone.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BONDS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BOND MARKETS (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (67%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



242 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: A Little Optimism at the Federal Reserve

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three members of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee indicated in separate speeches Wednesday that recent economic data, while troubling, does not yet justify an expansion of the Fed's economic aid campaign. 
The remarks suggest that the committee, which meets in two weeks, will give more consideration to such an expansion, but also that Fed officials remain uncertain whether the growth of the nation's economy has slowed.
While the government reported last week that employers added only 69,000 jobs in May, the Fed's own survey of business activity, published Wednesday, said that the economy ''expanded at a moderate pace'' over the last two months.
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is scheduled to testify on the state of the economy Thursday morning before a joint Congressional committee.
Before his highly anticipated remarks, the Fed's vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, said Wednesday evening in Boston that the jobs data ''serve as a reminder that the economy remains vulnerable to setbacks,'' and that the Fed was ready to act if it believed that the recovery was faltering.
While the Fed's current outlook is more optimistic, Ms. Yellen added that it still might be appropriate to take additional action because of the risks that a sharp reduction in federal spending at the end of the year, or a financial crisis in Europe, would derail growth.
''It may well be appropriate to insure against adverse shocks that could push the economy into territory where a self-reinforcing downward spiral of economic weakness would be difficult to arrest,'' she said.
Two other members of the policy making committee also suggested Wednesday that their willingness to consider action had increased.
John C. Williams, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a speech last month that it was ''essential'' for the Fed to maintain its current policies.
In a speech on Wednesday, Mr. Williams reaffirmed that position, then added, ''We must also stand ready to do even more if needed.''
Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said that the government's estimate that employers added only 69,000 jobs in May highlighted the ''halting and tenuous character'' of the recovery.
''Should it become clear that something resembling my baseline scenario of continued, though modest, growth is no longer realistic, further monetary actions to support the recovery will certainly need to be considered,'' Mr. Lockhart said.
If the Fed decides to act, Mr. Williams said that it should consider buying mortgage-backed securities and government debt.
Mr. Lockhart, by contrast, suggested that the Fed should extend its program of buying long-term Treasury securities, financed by the sale of short-term Treasuries, so that the total size of the Fed's investment portfolio would not increase.
The Fed's current commitment to buy $400 billion in long-term Treasury securities is scheduled to end this month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Yellen, vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, said recent reports were reminders that the economy was vulnerable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (65%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



243 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Bill Pushes For Increase In Wages

BYLINE: By REBECCA BERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. tried to give new vitality to the issue of the federal minimum wage on Wednesday, coming at the debate with a fresh angle: that raising it might encourage Americans to spend more and, thus, help stimulate the nation's struggling economy.
At a Capitol Hill news conference, he said the economy would be bolstered by increasing ''the purchasing power of millions of low-income and low-wage workers, and one proven and effective way of doing that is to raise the federal minimum wage.'' He has introduced a bill that would immediately increase the minimum wage by $2.75, to $10 an hour from $7.25. 
The argument in favor of raising the minimum wage as a form of economic stimulus goes to the heart of the debate in government and business spheres about whether more spending needs to be part of the prescription for strengthening the economy.
It also alludes to an underlying bitterness about income inequality that has intensified during the recession and subsequent recovery efforts.
''We've bailed out banks, we've bailed out corporations, we've bailed out Wall Street, we've tried to create sound fundamentals in the economy,'' Mr. Jackson, Democrat of Illinois, said. ''Now it's time to bail out working people who work hard every day and they still only make $7.25. The only way to do that is to raise the minimum wage.''
An increase in the federal minimum wage was last approved in 2007, when Congress voted to raise it from to $7.25 from $5.15 over two years. Eighteen states now have minimum wages in place that exceed the federal minimum.
At face value the federal minimum wage is the highest ever, but proponents of raising it argue that past minimum wages should be considered as adjusted for inflation. That would make 1968, when the minimum wage was nominally $1.60, the highest, at roughly $10 an hour in 2012 dollars.
As of last year, 5.2 percent of hourly paid workers in the United States, or about 3.8 million people, were compensated at or below the federal minimum wage, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
In the past, raising the minimum wage has been anathema to many Republicans and some business interests, like the National Restaurant Association, which argued in 2007 that an increase would cost jobs. Economists, meanwhile, disagree about the effects on the job market.
It might seem counterintuitive, that Democrats would decide to raise the issue again now, with Republicans in control of the House and Congress already distracted by the campaign season. On Wednesday, though, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio told reporters that it was ''precisely because it's an election year'' that the time is ripe for a renewed debate. Mr. Kucinich, a former Democratic candidate for president, said ''President Obama could guarantee his election'' if he came out in favor of Mr. Jackson's proposal.
As a candidate for president in 2008, then-Senator Barack Obama said he would support raising the federal minimum wage to $9.50 by 2011. Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee for president this year, has said he sees no need to increase the minimum wage at this time. Both men support a mechanism that would automatically adjust the federal minimum in proportion to increases in the Consumer Price Index.
Speaking to the press Wednesday, Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate and himself a former candidate for president, said,
''This is a unifying issue in our country at a time where there are few declared unifying political issues.''
He added, ''I don't think a conservative Republican worker in Walmart making $7.75 an hour is going to say that his or her ideology prevents them from supporting a $10 minimum wage.''
But Republican or not, some workers take issue with such an increase.
A few blocks from the Capitol on Wednesday, Ryan Young was at work, dragging a garden hose toward a planter. As a supervisor for a landscaping company, Mr. Young earns about twice the federal minimum, but has worked for much less. ''If you raise the minimum wage, that cost gets spread out somewhere else,'' he said. ''I think the market should determine wages, rents, pretty much everything.''
For now, though, the debate might be moot: A spokesman for Mr. Jackson made clear that the congressman's main aim is to reinvigorate discussion on the issue.
With the divisive political climate in Washington, the spokesman, Frank E. Watkins, said he doubted the bill would come to a vote. ''In fact,'' he said,'' I'm fairly certain that it won't under this Republican Congress.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. said a minimum-wage increase would help the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); BANK FAILURES (66%); STATISTICS (60%)

PERSON: JESSE L JACKSON JR (89%); JESSE JACKSON (89%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



244 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Unions, at Center of Wisconsin Recall Vote, Suffer a New Setback in Its Outcome

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Labor unions led the failed effort to recall Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, and their defeat in Tuesday's election was a significant setback to organized labor's political clout in both symbolic and tangible ways.
Unions in Wisconsin and across the country devoted vast resources in an attempt to remove Mr. Walker from office, saying the Republican governor's moves to roll back collective bargaining rights for public employees were an assault on middle-class values and were being bankrolled by a handful of wealthy business owners and corporations.
At a time when other states facing budget crises are considering ways to curb the ballooning compensation costs of public employees, union leaders had hoped that ousting Mr. Walker would stand as a warning to other elected officials that the political price for such actions could be dear. 
Mr. Walker's seven-point margin of victory took at least some of the teeth out of that threat. And his campaign, fueled by an spending advantage of more than 7 to 1 over his Democratic opponent, provides a blueprint for elected officials considering a rollback of public employee bargaining rights elsewhere, like Iowa and Minnesota.
Labor experts also suspect that the loss will hurt efforts to recruit new union members in the coming years.
''What happened in Wisconsin was a huge loss, because it got them on all fronts,'' said Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. ''It will embolden politicians in other states, it's emboldened private sector employers to demand greater concessions and will hurt organizing because it will tarnish the reputation of unions as an effective representative.''
Beyond that, the results will have the practical effect of helping to preserve Mr. Walker's initiatives in Wisconsin, which reduce the membership and funding of public employee unions and make it harder for labor to wage battles in the future.
Labor leaders strained on Wednesday to find shards of encouragement in the election results from Wisconsin. A labor-backed candidate, John Lehman, appeared to be ahead of the Republican incumbent, Van Wanggaard, in an extremely close State Senate race that would give Democrats control of one house of the legislature, a development that would offer a check on Governor Walker's power. Unions also pointed out that their loss in Wisconsin comes after a number of successes in other places where voters or courts struck down laws that weakened public employees' unions.
''Remember that collective bargaining rights were taken from workers in Kentucky, Missouri, New Mexico, Ohio and Puerto Rico -- yet they all ultimately won them back,'' said Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, in a statement.
Yet unions also lost two critical votes in California on Tuesday, as voters in San Jose and San Diego passed ballot measures that will cut retirement benefits for city workers.
Labor experts say that unions will have to regroup and rethink their political strategy, both at the state level and for the presidential campaign. Some union officials took comfort in the fact that several of the factors that contributed to Tuesday's loss in Wisconsin were specific to the recall race. Voters tend to be wary of recalls, and had already elected Mr. Walker over his recall opponent, Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, by a similar margin in 2010. Mr. Barrett had also been weakened by a primary fight against a labor-backed candidate.
Yet many political analysts and labor leaders acknowledged that the financial advantage that helped Mr. Walker overcome the union's traditional strength in get-out-the-vote efforts could well be a sign of things to come, especially since the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision loosened restrictions on campaign contributions.
And there was little agreement on how extensively labor leaders need to retool their message to appeal to working-class voters. Joe Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers, with 1.3 million members nationwide, said that labor had made huge progress in rallying public support since the ''dark days'' of early 2011.
But with political support for public employee benefits in doubt and amid a weak economy, many labor experts say that union officials need to refocus their appeal or risk further erosion of their power.
''They haven't found a way to connect with the average voter and make clear how they're proposing positive change rather than policies of the past,'' said Harry Katz, dean of the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations. ''Until they do that, they are going to be on the defensive, and in trouble.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); POLITICS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (75%); BALLOTS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



245 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Mediocrity In the Workplace

BYLINE: By JAY GOLTZ

 BODY:
I have gained tremendous insight reading the comments on this blog. One in particular really struck me recently. It came in response to a post that I had written quite a while ago, ''The Dirty Little Secret of Successful Companies,'' and it illustrates the huge difference in perspective that can exist between the owners of companies and their employees. Here is the comment: 
There is nothing wrong with being an average (mediocre) employee. Not everyone aspires to be in management. If the person meets the requirements of their current job, and they like the job and want to stay in the job, so be it. Stop trying to force people to get to the next level. The reality is that work is not the most important thing in everyone's lives. People have more important things in their life than work. Work is simply a means to get the money we need to pay the mortgage and our other bills. Work is a low-priority event for most people. I'm only willing to do the bare minimum that it takes to get a paycheck every two weeks. As long as I am meeting the requirements of my job, than that is good enough. Don't expect any more of me because I will not be a slave to any company. -- Jo-Ann Youngblood, Tulsa, OK
I get it, Ms. Youngblood. And I agree with much of what you say, including this: Stop trying to force people to the next level. I could not agree more, and I have never said otherwise. We would have a big problem if everyone wanted to move into management. And I am sure that many people feel the same way you do about work being a means to an end. As you say, if you are meeting the requirements of the job, you have every right to embrace your mediocrity. The difference between you and most people, I believe, is that you know you are a mediocre employee. In fact, you defend it. Good for you. An honest, self-aware person. And I certainly agree that no one needs to be a ''slave'' to a company.
But I have rights, too -- and not just my right to an opinion. As the owner of a business, I have the right to avoid hiring someone who only wants to do the bare minimum to get a paycheck. In fact, if I hire too many people with that attitude, I will be out of business. This is Capitalism 101, survival of the fittest. I operate in a very competitive market. I don't have any patents, any special marketing magic, or any secret recipes. My companies can only exist and grow if they do a much-better-than-average job.
One of the ways I try to ensure that is by hiring and keeping dedicated, professional people who want to do a good or even great job. While I have no doubt that some of my 115 employees consider their jobs, as you put it, simply a means to get the money they need, they still manage to do an above-average job at work. I think a lot of people want to do a better-than-mediocre job. I think it makes them feel good. And while no one here is forced to get to the next level, some are eager to have that opportunity -- the opportunity to make more money and to enjoy the feeling of accomplishment that goes with progressing in a career. That is their right.
This works for me and, I believe, for my employees, who average nine years in tenure. Apparently your view works for you, or at least it has so far. But there is another dirty little secret of successful companies, or even mediocre ones. When business slows down and they have to lay off people, many of them turn first to the people who do the bare minimum. Or sometimes, especially if everyone is doing the bare minimum, the whole company essentially gets laid off -- by its competition.
For most people, having a job for life is no longer an option. And for many of those who have been unfortunate enough to lose their businesses or their jobs during the recent years of economic turmoil, I suspect work is now, if it wasn't always, a high-priority event. And when it comes to securing a new job, the people who do more than the minimum will have an advantage.
But don't worry, I will take your advice and not expect any more of you. If you are happy, I am happy. While I appreciate your honesty and perspective, I will hope to avoid people who share your attitude, both as an employer and as a customer.
Jay Goltz owns five small businesses in Chicago.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (54%) OKLAHOMA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



246 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Looking at Recall Vote As Drawing Lines for Fall

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As a laboratory of democracy, the battle to recall Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin had all of the messy pieces: a clash of armies on the ground, the influence of a vast amount of money and the broader context of an improving but still sagging economy.
Republicans harnessed it all to Mr. Walker's advantage, tapping into the public's queasiness about the wisdom of a recall and its divided opinions about union benefits to deliver a blunt warning to President Obama and Democrats about what they might face in November.
Mr. Walker's victory was helped by political crosscurrents unique to Wisconsin, where the historic union-led attempt to remove the governor halfway through his four-year term was the culmination of red-hot anger over his push to end collective bargaining for public workers. But the outcome also provided a kind of election-year exercise that put on full display the financial, economic and organizational forces that are already shaping the presidential contest between Mr. Obama and Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee. 
''Wisconsin was a microcosm of the national race,'' said Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, chairman of the Republican Governors Association. ''The issues that Scott Walker campaigned and ran on are the same issues that are going to divide Mitt Romney and Barack Obama.''
But whether Mr. Romney can produce the same result as Mr. Walker is unclear. Exit polls showed that 17 percent of the same voters who opposed the recall of their Republican governor also said they preferred Mr. Obama. Many also said Mr. Obama would do a better job on the economy and for the middle class than would Mr. Romney. And swing states, including Wisconsin, are generally doing better economically than the country as a whole.
Ed Gillespie, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney's campaign, said the Wisconsin vote underscores the power of the broader Republican argument in the presidential race about the size and role of government. But he noted that Wisconsin does not automatically lean Republican.
''I don't think we should assume that because there was a victory yesterday, there will be a victory in November in Wisconsin,'' Mr. Gillespie told reporters on Wednesday at a Bloomberg News breakfast. ''I do think it's in play, and that's telling.''
Although Mr. Obama kept his distance from the state in the final weeks of the union-led recall effort, his party, his campaign team and his labor allies exerted an enormous joint effort there that proved to be mismatched for the organized and well-financed Republican apparatus.
The corporate interests and billionaires who are pouring cash into Mr. Romney's ''super PACs'' gave millions to Mr. Walker. To combat those resources, Mr. Obama's campaign, aided by union allies, constructed a turnout machine in Wisconsin that they said will be a model for other battleground states.
More than 40 offices run by the Democratic National Committee and Mr. Obama's campaign deployed more than 100 paid staff members alongside union and state volunteers for months in what amounts to the first real test of the president's ground game before November's election.
Before Tuesday's vote, Democratic leaders had bragged about what they predicted would be their superior on-the-ground turnout efforts. In an interview late last month, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, called the Wisconsin recall a ''dry run'' for the party and for Mr. Obama's campaign.
''All of the Obama for America and state-party resources, our grass-roots network, is fully engaged,'' Ms. Schultz said.
But the Democratic effort on the ground -- so successful in a state that Mr. Obama won by 14 points in the 2008 presidential race -- failed to turn out enough voters for the Democrat, Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee. Turnout was up by about 400,000 from 2010, but many of those voters cast ballots to keep Mr. Walker in office.
The outcome prompted top Democrats to warn on Wednesday that the party -- and the president -- can't count on organizational superiority to trump the hundreds of millions of dollars in television advertising that is likely to come from outside groups in the coming months.
''The Wisconsin results should serve as a wake-up call for Democrats: on-the-ground organizing is critically important, but it must be coupled with an aggressive air campaign,'' Representative Steve Israel, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said in a statement. ''Without robust air cover, the voice of the middle class will be silenced.''
Yet the deluge of television advertising and activity may have had little effect, given the strength of feelings on the issue. Nearly 9 in 10 voters said they made up their minds a month ago.
Mr. Walker and Mr. Obama may have each benefited from incumbency, earning some credit for the improving economy in Wisconsin even as the two parties point fingers at each other for slowing down the recovery.
But five months before the general election, the biggest political lesson from Wisconsin may be that the overwhelming dominance of money on the Republican side will continue to haunt Democrats.
The biggest contributors to Mr. Walker included investments from Bob Perry, the Houston homebuilder whose family has spent more than $8 million this election cycle; Foster Friess, the entrepreneur who was the leading benefactor to Rick Santorum; Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate who provided millions to Newt Gingrich; and Charles and David Koch, whose group helped finance millions in advertisements.
''The fact that you've got a handful of self-interested billionaires who are trying to leverage their money across the country,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior campaign strategist, said in an interview. ''Does that concern me? Of course that concerns me.''
State law allowed unlimited contributions to Mr. Walker's campaign, mirroring the free flow of money into presidential campaigns via federal super PACs that were allowed under the Supreme Court's 2010 Citizens United decision.
Steven Law, the president of American Crossroads, a Republican super PAC that did not provide money to Mr. Walker, said that conservative donors were motivated by fears of huge spending by labor unions to oust the Republican governor.
''The expectation that unions will spend aggressively in the fall is continuing to galvanize donors,'' Mr. Law said.
Richard Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., told reporters on Wednesday that the results in Wisconsin underscores the union's concern about letting unlimited money into politics.
''Let's be clear,'' he said, ''Citizens United has ushered in a new era of elections, and it's not a pretty picture.''
But Mr. Axelrod said he was confident that the president's campaign would be in a better position to respond aggressively than was Mr. Barrett.
''We start off in a better place, and we're not going to get outspent eight to one,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''We are not going to have just a month to run our campaign. You cannot draw that parallel here. We're in an entirely different situation.''
Democrats on Wednesday sought to portray the vote in Wisconsin as a special case featuring two local candidates and issues -- like Mr. Walker's push to restrict collective bargaining rights -- that limit the parallels that can be drawn with Mr. Obama's race against Mr. Romney.
Party officials said the support for Mr. Obama among voters leaving polling places suggests Wisconsin residents were uncomfortable ousting a sitting governor but are supportive of the president's policies and are not inclined to vote for Mr. Romney in the fall.
At a fund-raiser in San Antonio, Texas, on Wednesday, Mr. Romney characterized the outcome of the recall election as ''another signal -- and it will echo throughout the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Labor Temple in Madison, Wis., a message reflects the combativeness of the labor issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



247 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Hovnanian Posts Its First Profit in 2 Years

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The home builder Hovnanian Enterprisesposted its first quarterly profit in more than two years on Wednesday as home deliveries grew, sending its shares up 25 percent. 
Housing starts last month rose across the board. Residential construction in the first quarter grew at its fastest rate in nearly two years and is expected to contribute this year to economic growth for the first time since 2005.
''As evidenced by our four consecutive quarters of year-over-year net contract growth for the first time since 2006, we are encouraged that the home-building industry may be entering the early stages of a recovery,'' the chief executive, Ara Hovnanian, said in a statement.
Strong results were reported earlier from Hovnanian's larger rivals, Toll Brothers, D. R. Horton and the Lennar Corporation.
Hovnanian, which builds single-family homes, town houses, condominiums and resorts, said contract backlog at the end of the quarter rose 49 percent to $762.8 million. Home deliveries grew 25 percent.
The company reported earnings for the quarter of $1.8 million, or 2 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $72.7 million, or 69 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue in the period, which ended April 30 and was the second quarter of Hovnanian's fiscal year, rose 34 percent to $341.7 million. Home deliveries rose to 1,207 in the quarter.
Shares of Hovnanian, which is based in Red Bank, N.J., rose 31 cents, or 18 percent, to $2.01. They touched a two-month high of $2.10 earlier in the session.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%); LENNAR CORP (91%); D R HORTON INC (58%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%); LEN (NYSE) (91%); DHI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



248 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Comments Spark Tax Cut Debate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans pounced Wednesday on disputed comments from Bill Clinton and a former senior Obama economic adviser, claiming that the Republican push to extend all of the Bush-era tax cuts beyond the 2012 expiration date has support at the highest levels of the Democratic Party.
White House officials and Congressional Democrats responded just as vigorously, saying neither the former president nor Lawrence H. Summers, a past director of the National Economic Council, ever said that all of the tax cuts should be extended. 
The heated exchange illustrated how politically sensitive the tax cut expiration has become amid fresh data showing the economy slowing. A majority of voters say the federal budget deficit should be tackled with a mix of spending cuts and tax increases on the rich. In an April New York Times/CBS News poll, 56 percent favored boosting the economy by spending on education and infrastructure while raising taxes on the wealthy, against 37 percent who favored cutting taxes and spending.
But Republicans have stood firm against any tax increase, and they are on the offensive, thanks in part to the comments of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Summers.
''Even Bill Clinton came out for it, before he was against it,'' Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said.
Both Democrats released statements shortly after their televised interviews denying they had said that they favored extending all the tax cuts. President Obama has endorsed extending tax cuts for the middle class, but he has promised to oppose any extension of Bush-era tax cuts for households earning more than $250,000.
But after Friday's weak jobs report for May, the Democrats have been on the defensive.
Representative Peter Welch, a Vermont Democrat who wants his party to stand its ground, said: ''There's a reason to be alarmed. Historically, economic sentiment in May predicts the outcome of presidential elections, and people are edgy.''
In the appearance on MSNBC's ''Morning Joe'' that sparked the exchange, Mr. Summers appeared to signal that he favors a temporary extension of all the tax cuts. After the host, Mika Brzezinski, mentioned Mr. Clinton's tax cut comments and the bad jobs report, she pressed Mr. Summers for his views.
He responded: ''The real risk to this economy is on the side of slowdown, certainly not on the side of overheating, and that means we've got to make sure we don't take gasoline out of the tank at the end of this year. That's got to be the top priority.''
A few minutes later, he added, ''For the medium and long term, we obviously have to do things to control the deficit,'' explicitly embracing tax increases on the rich.
''You've got to look to the people who've gotten the most gains from the economy over the last 30 years, and who have also gotten the biggest tax reductions,'' he said. ''It's not taking from them. It's simply asking them to do their fair share at a time when the country has to pull together to work through some difficult problems.''
Together, the comments appeared to suggest that Mr. Summers opposed allowing any tax cuts to expire at the end of the year and preferred allowing the cuts on income above $250,000 to expire later. But he was not explicit on the issue, and White House officials denied that Mr. Summers, one of Mr. Obama's closest economic confidants, had broken with the president.
Mr. Summers released a statement saying: ''I fully support President Obama's position on tax cuts. I have often said and continue to believe that promoting demand is the most critical short run priority for the American economy. Extending the high-income tax cut does little for demand and poses substantial problems of fairness and fiscal prudence.''
Those events mirrored the dispute over Mr. Clinton's comments barely 12 hours before. In an interview on CNBC, Mr. Clinton appeared to say tax increases and Republican-led spending cuts should be temporarily set aside until the economy regains its footing.
''What I think we need to do is find some way to avoid the fiscal cliff, to avoid doing anything that would contract the economy now, and then deal with what's necessary in the long term debt-reduction plans as soon as they can, which presumably would be after the election,'' he said.
Mr. Clinton's remarks were likewise vague, and a Clinton spokesman on Tuesday quickly said the former president does not believe tax cuts for the wealthy need be extended.
Regardless of intent, some damage may have been done. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, said President Obama extended the Bush tax cuts for two years in December 2010 because of a struggling economy. At 1.9 percent, the growth rate in the first three months of this year was slower than the end of 2010, when the economy grew 2.8 percent.
But Republicans gave no indication they are willing to cut a broad, anti-austerity deal. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority whip, said Republicans will not come to the table until they believe they have a White House negotiating partner.
''You need somebody on the other side who wants to make a deal, and the No. 1 way to do that is to put people before politics,'' he said. ''And this president this year has done nothing but politics.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence H. Summers said he stood by President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); PETER WELCH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



249 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
U.S. AIDES IN ISRAEL GIVE
ASSURANCES ABOUT IRAN
Current and former U.S. officials have been traveling to Israel to threaten additional sanctions on Iran and to reiterate President Obama's readiness to use military action if diplomacy fails. Page A6
GERMAN CHILD CARE BILL 
Chancellor Angela Merkel's cabinet approved a bill to provide parents of toddlers with an allowance for keeping their children out of state-run day care, a move that critics say would derail efforts to encourage women to return to work. Page A4
MUBARAK'S HEALTH DECLINES
Former President Hosni Mubarak's health has deteriorated so sharply since he was first taken to prison in Egypt that the authorities are close to a decision to return him to a hospital outside the penal system, security officials said. Page A8
FRESH VIOLENCE IN SYRIA
Syrian activists reported a mass killing of villagers by pro-government militiamen and security forces, threatening to inject new momentum into the growing international effort to remove President Bashar al-Assad from power. Page A8
National
COMMENTS BY DEMOCRATS
SPARK TAX CUT DEBATE
Congressional Republicans pounced on disputed comments from Bill Clinton and a former senior Obama economic adviser, saying that the Republican push to extend the Bush-era tax cuts has support at the highest levels of the Democratic Party. Page A18
New York
G.O.P. LEADER SAYS SENATE
WON'T PASS MARIJUANA PLAN
The Republican majority in the State Senate is not satisfied with a proposal by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to decriminalize the open possession of small amounts of marijuana and will not pass it in its current form, the chamber's top lawmaker said. Page A20
Business
NASDAQ TAKES STEPS
TO SOOTHE INVESTORS
The Nasdaq OMX Group is taking its first step to quell investor anger over the flawed debut of Facebook -- saying that it would set aside as much as $40 million in cash and rebates to settle disputes -- but initial responses suggest that effort will be tough. Page B1
ROOM ON RADIO SPECTRUM
Cellphone carriers say they are worried about running out of the radio spectrum that carries wireless calls and data, and several companies are developing technology that could change the whole spectrum game. Page B1
SAY GOODBYE TO MOBILEME
Apple's MobileMe service is scheduled to end on June 30. Here are possible replacements for its photo/video galleries, Web page building tools and online hard drives. State of the Art, David Pogue. Page B1
BILL ON MINIMUM WAGE
Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. introduced a bill that would increase the minimum wage to $10 an hour, in an effort to encourage Americans to spend more and to help stimulate the economy. Page B1
Sports
THE PROVING GROUND
OF THE BELMONT STAKES
The mile and a half distance of the Belmont Stakes is all that separates I'll Have Another from the Triple Crown. In more than a century of American horse racing, only 11 horses have passed this singular exam to earn their place among the sport's immortals. Page B13
FOR A TEAM THAT NEEDS REST
The Celtics are now a victory away from a berth in the N.B.A. finals and they lead the best-of-seven Eastern Conference finals, though their last conventional practice was before the start of the playoffs in April. With age, injuries and a hectic game schedule, rest seems to be at least one key to their success. Page B18
Arts
NEXT POET LAUREATE NAMED
BY THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
The Library of Congress is to announce that the next poet laureate is Natasha Trethewey, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of three collections and a professor of creative writing at Emory University in Atlanta. Page C1
Home
A FRESH APPROACH
TO UNWANTED PLANTS
Scores of weeds are thriving in Eastern gardens this year, thanks to the unusually warm winter and a roller coaster spring. Rather than fight the rising tide, Tama Matsuoka Wong decided to start eating them, even writing a book of recipes and instructions for dealing with the unappreciated plants. Page D1
Style
PLENTY OF FISH IN THE SEAS
OF SILICON VALLEY
When Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook married his longtime girlfriend, Priscilla Chan, recently, one of the world's youngest billionaires was off the market. But there are still a host of eligible singles in Silicon Valley. Page E1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CANNABIS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILD CARE (77%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (76%); PRISONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (62%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (62%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (62%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (62%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (62%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (62%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (72%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (57%); JESSE JACKSON (52%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (50%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (92%); EGYPT (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



250 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: The Message From Wisconsin

 BODY:
When Gov. Scott Walker moved to strip Wisconsin public employees of their collective-bargaining rights last year, a few weeks after taking office, it was clear that he wasn't doing it to save the state money. If that had been the case, he would have accepted the unions' agreement to pay far more in health care and pension costs. His real goal was political: to break the unions by demonizing their ''bosses,'' ending their ability even to collect dues and removing them as a source of money and energy for Democrats.
On Tuesday, as Mr. Walker easily fought off a recall by a 7-point margin over his challenger, it became clear just how effective that strategy has been. 
To start, labor failed to nominate its preferred candidate last month to run against Mr. Walker. Instead, Democrats chose Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, who then barely talked about collective-bargaining rights, sensing it would not help him. Nearly a third of union voters (presumably from private-sector unions) voted for Mr. Walker, exit polls showed, as did nearly half of voters from union households who were not union members.
Some of those union voters, like many others, undoubtedly felt that recalls should be reserved for official misconduct. But, clearly, over the course of 18 months, Mr. Walker and his allies managed to convince even union households in a former labor bastion that bargaining rights for public sector employees were bad for the state.
How did he do that? With the aid of more than $45.6 million, most of it from outside the state, that paid for ads praising him for his ''courage'' in taking on unions and attacking labor for its ''selfish'' intransigence. As one ad put it, ''Labor union mobs led by Barack Obama's Organizing for America are trying to intimidate and harass Governor Walker and lawmakers in Madison, simply because they're finally doing the right thing.''
Mr. Walker's campaign raised seven times as much money as Mr. Barrett's, much of it in six-figure checks from some of the same business interests contributing millions to Republican ''super PACs'' and advocacy groups this year, including Sheldon Adelson and Bob Perry.
This money has by no means bought a guarantee that Mitt Romney will seize Wisconsin in November; exit polls showed the same voters preferred President Obama by 51 percent to 44 percent. The state is improving economically, with a lower jobless rate than the nation, which may benefit the president as much as Mr. Romney.
But, from the beginning, the money behind Governor Walker was intended to turn a once-reliable blue state into a laboratory for Republican ideas, where business could grow free of union fetters, taxes could be cut and thousands of people could be removed from Medicaid rolls.
That's why David Koch, the billionaire industrialist whose family money was crucial to Mr. Walker's election in 2010, gave $1 million to the Republican Governors Association this year, which, in turn, ran ads supporting Mr. Walker. Mr. Koch said Mr. Walker's fight against public unions was ''critically important.''
The tactics worked in Wisconsin, and in several other states. Labor, so long in decline in the private sector, is also losing its clout in states and cities, unable to match or withstand the unfettered bank accounts of industry. The people who kept Mr. Walker and his policies in power are just getting started.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (91%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); MISCONDUCT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (78%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



251 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Model for Success Shows Its Faults

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
MIAMI
Two years into the great Miami Heat experiment, the biting narratives have begun to blur -- LeBron James's failures merging with franchise missteps merging with random events and unforeseen obstacles.
When the Heat lost to the Dallas Mavericks in the finals last June, it was judged an indictment of the Big Three partnership of James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. It was more an indictment of James, whose fourth-quarter fades doomed the Heat against a veteran, strong-willed Mavericks team. (It also had something to do with Dirk Nowitzki.)
With the Heat now staring at elimination in the Eastern Conference finals -- trailing, 3-2, heading into Thursday's Game 6 in Boston -- the recriminations are already starting to fly, mostly at James, some at Coach Erik Spoelstra, and with renewed doubts about the fortitude of the James-Wade-Bosh core. 
Championships were expected, immediately and in great numbers -- ''not one, not two, not three, not four, not five, not six.'' That is what James promised in that infamous July 2010 rally, and that is the standard by which he and his teammates will be judged.
If the Heat fail again this spring, it will only bolster the two most prominent themes: that James lacks some intangible championship gene, and that the Heat's model is flawed.
At 27, James has time to evolve and recast his image. It's the franchise that needs to reassess its direction after overselling and overinvesting in the all-superstar paradigm.
It isn't that James, Wade and Bosh are flawed as a group; to the contrary, they have been dominant for two seasons and reached the finals in their first year together -- a rare feat for any newly constructed team. Their talent is unquestioned, and their chemistry solid.
The issue is not personnel, but economics, and the perils of wild spending in a salary-capped world. Pat Riley allocated so much cap room to his stars in 2010 that he left his team with no flexibility, no room for error and little ability to withstand a significant injury.
Bosh's abdominal strain obscures the meaning of this bumpy postseason. He missed the first four games of this series and played a meaningless 14-minute cameo in Tuesday's 94-90 loss. In his absence, the Heat lurched from Ronny Turiaf to Joel Anthony to Udonis Haslem in search of a viable big man, none of them up to the task of defending the paint or challenging Kevin Garnett or hitting a timely shot.
Bosh is not the most talented member of Miami's Big Three, but he is in some ways the most vital. James and Wade are almost interchangeable -- when one is out, the other can still score, pass, set up teammates and defend on the perimeter. There is no viable substitute for Bosh.
Would the Heat be in such peril if Bosh had been healthy? Would the Big Three look like such a failure if all three were actually playing?
Losing this series does not necessarily mean the Big 3 are incapable of winning titles. But it should force a reassessment of the Heat's strategy.
After uniting James, Wade and Bosh, Riley perhaps believed the high-level role players would flock to South Beach and sign for minimum-level salaries for the chance to win titles. It hasn't happened that way, and the supporting cast remains woeful: Miami has the worst point guard-center combination of the four conference finalists, and probably the worst bench as well.
Shane Battier, the Heat's signature acquisition last summer, is shooting 32.4 percent in the conference finals, and 29.6 percent from 3-point range, which is supposed to be his specialty. Mike Miller has been better (44.4 percent from the field), but he is averaging just 6.2 points per game in the series and does not do much else.
With Bosh out, the Heat struggled to put away the Indiana Pacers, a team with no transcendent star but fantastic depth and chemistry. The only team the Heat dominated in these playoffs was the equally top-heavy but less-talented Knicks, who were handicapped by injuries and lousy chemistry.
In truth, the Knicks and the Heat both made the same mistake, attempting to pattern themselves after the Celtics, who brought Garnett, Ray Allen and Paul Pierce together five years ago and promptly won a title. But Boston's Big Three were well complemented by a Trusted Two -- Rajon Rondo, a then-unknown who blossomed into a star, and Kendrick Perkins, who became one of the top interior defenders in the league.
Even now, the Celtics can turn to Pierce, Garnett, Allen or Rondo for a key basket, while Miami relies almost solely on Wade and James. Their burden is greater, as are the consequences for failure.
James went eight minutes without scoring in the fourth quarter of Game 5 and fouled out in overtime of Game 4, but his play in this series has been mostly brilliant. He is shooting 50 percent from the field and averaging 31.8 points, 10 rebounds and 4 assists, all while guarding Pierce.
When the season began, Wade said the stakes were clear: championship or bust. Blame will be cast in every direction if the Heat fall short. James will again take the brunt of it, no matter how many points he scores or assists he collects.
The only point of universal agreement is that another loss in these conference finals means failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS MAVERICKS (84%); MIAMI HEAT (84%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (92%); KEVIN GARNETT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



252 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Leading Way, 2 Cities Pass Pension Cuts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
While the eyes of the nation focused on Wisconsin, where Gov. Scott Walker brushed back a recall attempt by critics of his move to strip most public-sector unions of their collective bargaining rights, a pair of less noticed local elections Tuesday in California could have more immediate ramifications for struggling state and local governments and for organized labor.
Residents of San Diego and San Jose voted overwhelmingly to cut the pension benefits they give city workers. And they did so in a way governments traditionally avoid: moving to cut not just the benefits of future hires, but also those of current city workers, whose pensions generally have much stronger legal protections than those of private-sector workers.
Unions in both cities vowed to block the cuts in court, but the ease with which the measures passed is expected to embolden other financially strained cities and states to follow their lead. 
It is not just Republicans seeking savings. Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a Democrat, has been seeking to suspend the annual automatic cost-of-living adjustments for retirees.
In Illinois, which has the nation's largest unfunded pension liability, Gov. Pat Quinn, a Democrat, has been struggling to reach a deal with lawmakers that would cut the pensions of current workers without running afoul of the pension protections in the state's Constitution. And in Providence, R.I., unions are being asked to ratify a tentative deal their leaders made last month with Mayor Angel Taveras that would suspend the cost-of-living adjustments for retired city workers.
''I would say that the San Jose vote is a harbinger of things to come,'' said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College, who was on President Bill Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. She said governments need more flexibility to solve their pension funding problems.
The wide margins of passage for the pension-cutting measures -- San Diego's with two-thirds of the vote, and San Jose's with 70 percent -- underscored the extent to which both cities have struggled to pay for basic services. At one point San Diego -- burdened with high pension costs for years after its pension disclosures ran afoul of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the city lost access to the public bond markets -- kept a rotating group of firehouses closed each day to save money.
San Jose could not afford to open four new libraries it had built, and laid off police officers. And some voters grew resentful of the benefits given government workers -- police officers and firefighters in San Jose could retire after 30 years with pensions worth 90 percent of their salaries -- while private-sector pensions were growing rarer.
Many states and municipalities are struggling with rising pension costs. In many cases benefits were set when the stock market was booming and investments seemed to deliver nothing but gains. It was widely assumed at the time that investment returns would cover most of the cost of people's pensions.
Now, though, the expected investment gains have fallen far short, and municipalities everywhere must make up the missing money, sometimes by raising taxes, sometimes by cutting government services. Laws and court precedents in many states have long been interpreted as saying that public workers' pensions cannot be reduced. The new pension cuts passed in San Jose and San Diego may test that.
The union representing San Jose police officers filed a lawsuit in Superior Court on Wednesday seeking to block the cuts, arguing that they are illegal under California law and that they violated the vested rights their members have to their pensions. ''I think there's a clear sense by the taxpayers that they want costs down, but it's a question of how you do that,'' Jim Unland, the president of the union, the San Jose Police Officers' Association, said in an interview, adding that he would have preferred a negotiated agreement to cut costs.
But city officials said they expected to prevail in court, and filed their own motion in federal court seeking a declaration that the measure is constitutional. The measure gives city workers an option: They can keep their current pension, as long as they agree to contribute more of their salaries -- up to 16 percent -- to the pension fund, or they can enter a less generous pension plan with a higher retirement age, benefits that accrue more slowly and smaller cost-of-living adjustments. Future hires would be put into a plan that costs even less, and would be required to contribute up to half of its cost.
Mayor Chuck Reed of San Jose, a Democrat, said the pension cuts were needed to restore police positions that were eliminated and to reopen firehouses that were closed on certain days, and so the city could afford to open the four closed libraries. He added that the changes were needed to make sure there would be enough money to pay retirees their benefits, so they did not end up like the retirees of Central Falls, R.I., whose benefits were cut when the city went bankrupt.
He said he expected other cities to follow San Jose's lead. ''I think it's clear that if you present the facts to the voters, they're going to be there in support of pension reform,'' Mr. Reed said.
Gov. Jerry Brown of California, a Democrat who has been pushing his own measures to reduce pension costs, said the vote in San Jose sent ''a very powerful signal that pension reform is imperative,'' The San Francisco Chronicle reported.
Some public sector union officials, reeling from their losses in the Wisconsin vote and the pension measures in San Diego and San Jose, said they needed to do more to educate the public about pensions and the nature of deferred compensation. They worried that some public workers would retire without enough money to support themselves.
Some saw a pattern. ''It isn't lost on us that the one commonality in Wisconsin, San Diego and San Jose is that we were considerably outspent,'' said Steven Kreisberg, the director of collective bargaining at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees in Washington. ''You have politicians conspiring with corporations to take away pensions from workers.''
San Diego's plan would require future hires to enroll in a defined-contribution plan, similar to a 401(k) plan. In the future, public employees will be responsible for investing their own retirement money, and if their investments fail, the city's taxpayers will not have to step in. The city's current workers will see a freeze in the amount of their pay that will be used to calculate pension benefits, which the city estimates will save it $1 billion over the next 30 years -- savings that unions say are overstated but that some critics say will not go far enough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Jerry Sanders, left, of San Diego, on Tuesday at a rally for supporters of pension cuts. In San Jose, campaign workers opposed to cuts watched returns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); COST OF LIVING (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); BONDS (60%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SCOTT WALKER (73%); PAT QUINN (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



253 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Woes Give Democrats a Line of Attack

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In American politics, being European is bad again. But these days, President Obama and the Democrats, not the Republicans, are holding up their allies across the Atlantic as the poster children for bad policies.
In a new line of attack, top Democrats are arguing that Mitt Romney and the Republicans, with their focus on spending cuts, are following Europe's austerity-first example, to dismal effect so far: Greece over the edge; Italy, Spain, Portugal on the edge; Britain in recession; and the United States suffering through a needlessly weak recovery because of government cuts.
Former President Bill Clinton offered the clearest version of the case on Monday night, when, introducing Mr. Obama at a fund-raiser in New York, he listed the steps that Mr. Obama had taken to spur the economy, and then asked: ''Why aren't things roaring along now? Because Europe is in trouble and because the Republican Congress has adopted the European economic policy.'' 
Mr. Clinton added, ''Who would have thought, after years and years, even decades, in which the Republican right attacked 'old Europe,' that they would embrace the economic policies of the euro zone -- austerity and unemployment now at all costs.''
Mr. Obama has so far declined to take up the line of attack himself, in part, administration officials say, because it would be unseemly for him to do so when he is trying to persuade European leaders to move away from austerity and deal more aggressively with their financial crisis.
But plenty of administration officials, Obama advisers and campaign surrogates have been quick to take up the argument, making a case that had previously been relegated to liberal writers instead of Democrats. At a time when the American economy is looking weaker than it had seemed only a few weeks ago, the European analogy gives Democrats a story to tell about why the recovery has been slower than they had hoped.
Romney campaign officials and other Republicans are not entirely unhappy about the new Democratic message, in part because it keeps the debate focused on Mr. Obama's biggest weakness: the state of the economy.
Mr. Romney's aides respond that Europe is in bad shape all right, but that is because European leaders have not gone far enough on austerity.
''Europe is facing some terrible choices because they postponed the effort to get their economic house in order,'' said Kristen Silverberg, a United States ambassador to the European Union under President George W. Bush and now a Romney campaign official. ''The United States still has the chance to correct course, but not if we sustain four more years of Obama-styled deficits.''
The prime example for Democrats is the European country that has long seemed most similar to the United States -- Britain -- where Prime Minister David Cameron came into office in 2010 arguing that excessive spending by his Labor predecessors had spurred the country's economic woes. Mr. Cameron, a conservative, slashed spending and eliminated hundreds of thousands of public sector jobs in a bid to reduce the deficit. Two years later, Britain's Office for National Statistics says the country is experiencing a double-dip recession and is doing even worse than only a few months ago.
''We have a laboratory experiment going on for what the Republicans want to do here, and that's Europe,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''Particularly England, because they had the equivalent of a Democratic government, and Cameron comes in with austerity, and now they're in a recession.''
Mr. Obama, Mr. Schumer said, ''can point to England as what could happen if the Republicans win.''
Since the depth of the economic crisis in 2009, the United States, which has put a bigger emphasis on stimulus than Europe, has performed better than Europe, after the two had suffered similarly from the start of crisis in 2007 until 2009. Over all, gross domestic product in the United States was 3 percent higher in the first three months of this year than in late 2007, according to Haver Analytics, while gross domestic product in both the 17 countries of the euro zone and in Britain was still slightly smaller than at the end of 2007.
''Europe has failed trying to do austerity,'' said Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington. ''They took the austerity approach, and that's not how you get out of recession. Even Franklin Roosevelt learned that -- we didn't get out of the Great Depression until World War II.''
Obama advisers argue that the budget proposal of Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, which Mr. Romney has called ''marvelous,'' is actually a radical vision that would deepen the inequality in American society. They say that Mr. Ryan's call for overhauling Medicare could drive up costs for future retirees and fundamentally change the popular health plan.
''The Republican budget approach is far more extreme than austerity measures considered in Europe, in terms of both underlying goals and specific short-run policies, and the lack of any balance in approach,'' said Jason Furman, principal deputy director of the National Economic Council. ''Republican plans in Congress would be even more detrimental to longer-term growth because their refusal to consider any revenues necessitates even deeper spending cuts. In contrast, even conservative governments abroad have taken a more balanced approach to deficit reduction.''
Mr. Romney recently gave the Democrats some ammunition when he appeared to acknowledge the connection between spending cuts and recessions in an interview with Time magazine, saying that he would not make too many cuts in his first year as president.
''If you take a trillion dollars, for instance, out of the first year of the federal budget, that would shrink G.D.P. over 5 percent,'' Mr. Romney said. ''That is, by definition, throwing us into recession or depression. So I'm not going to do that, of course.''
Still, his campaign and Congressional Republicans remain comfortable making an economic argument that revolves largely around spending cuts. Polls show that many Americans are skeptical that the Obama stimulus made a big economic difference.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Democrats have begun arguing that Mitt Romney wants to follow the same budget-cutting measures that have Europe in turmoil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN BLANCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Former President Bill Clinton this week accused Congressional Republicans of embracing policies of ''austerity and unemployment'' that have caused protests throughout the euro zone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PAUL WHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RECESSION (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); FUNDRAISING (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); WRITERS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); DAVID CAMERON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (88%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



254 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Amid Growth, a Plan To Insure Risks on Crops

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At the same time that high crop prices are prompting farmers to expand into millions of acres of land once considered unsuitable for farming, Congress is considering expanding a federal insurance program that reimburses farmers for most losses or drops in prices.
The combination could cost the government billions of dollars if the newly farmed land does not yield enough crops and especially if crop prices fall. 
Advocates, including farm interest lobbyists and lawmakers with a long history of creating and protecting benefits, argue that the new program would save Washington money by replacing a longstanding one costing $5 billion a year, known as direct payments, that pays owners of farmland a set amount regardless of whether they have planted crops.
Crop insurance has existed for decades, with the government now spending about $7 billion a year to pay about two-thirds of the cost of farmers' premiums. Under the federal program, farmers can buy insurance that covers poor yields, declines in prices or both.
On Tuesday, the Senate began debate on a farm bill, passed by the Agriculture Committee in April, that would set up another crop insurance subsidy, costing $3 billion a year, to cover any losses farmers suffer, known as deductibles, before their crop insurance policies kick in.
The change from the existing direct payment program to the crop insurance subsidies as the primary safety net for farmers means that ''payments are going to people who are actually farming,'' Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan and chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, said Wednesday.
The Senate measure would cut about $23 billion in spending over the next 10 years, though that is far less than the Obama administration wanted.
Crop insurance supporters say insurance programs provide an important safety net for farmers, who are subject to the whims of weather, pests and volatile markets.
''Cuts in the crop insurance program would reduce the effectiveness of the most important risk-management tool farmers have,'' said Sam Willett, senior director of public policy at the National Corn Growers Association.
Even some farmers argue that the subsidies are already generous to agribusinesses, especially with the government facing large deficits. Jim Faulstich, a farmer and rancher in Highmore, S.D., said he was in favor of farmers having crop insurance, but added that the insurance should not be used to make money at taxpayer expense.
''If we as farmers expect taxpayers to support premium subsidies, it's only fair that we grow on land that is capable of supporting it,'' he said. ''Could some of this land be profitable without the crop insurance subsidy? I think not.''
The sharp rise in the price of corn, wheat, soybeans and other crops, driven in large part by the growth of Asian economies, has caused farmers to plant land long prone to erosion and flooding. In the prairies and rolling hills of the Northern Great Plains in the Dakotas and in Montana, millions of acres that are home to ducks and other waterfowl, and attractive grounds for hunters, are rapidly being turned into corn, soybean and wheat fields.
In some Montana counties, once-marginal land is selling for nearly $2,000 an acre, up from about $300 in 1991, as the high crop prices drive the need for more areas for farm production. According to data from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, since 2007, South Dakota has lost nearly 500,000 acres of grassland to farming. In North Dakota, more than one million acres have become farmland over the same time period.
''Land that was once considered marginal is now being looked at more from a farm production and financial standpoint,'' said Bruce Brock, a real estate auctioneer in Le Mars, Iowa. ''With commodity prices being what they are, people are looking everywhere for land they can plant corn or some other high-priced crop.''
Mr. Brock said he recently sold about 1,300 acres of pastureland in South Dakota that fetched a price of about $2,600 an acre. The same land would have gone for $200 to $300 if it had remained grassland, he said.
By guaranteeing income, farmers say, crop insurance removes almost any financial risk for planting land where crop failure is almost certain.
''When you can remove nearly all the risk involved and guarantee yourself a profit, it's not a bad business decision,'' said Darwyn Bach, a farmer in St. Leo, Minn., who said that he is guaranteed about $1,000 an acre in revenue before he puts a single seed in the ground because of crop insurance. ''I can farm on low-quality land that I know is not going to produce and still turn a profit.''
For years, the government provided an incentive for farmers and landowners to keep marginal land in conservation because years of farming had led to topsoil erosion. In 1985, the government started the Conservation Reserve Program, which paid farmers to let lands stay wild.
Today, the government pays about $50 an acre for farmers to keep their lands in conservation. But with land prices skyrocketing, many farmers are more likely to sell land than take a modest payment to preserve grassland.
Environmentalists, hunting groups and even some farmers say the prospect of expanding insurance will only speed the push to turn grasslands into farms. Crop insurance programs do not require farmers to adopt any conservation methods for the land.
Farmland values have been increasing for years and have been pushed up by several factors.
But numerous studies, including a report in 2007 by the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, found that a major incentive for farmers to buy land and farm it was the government-subsidized crop insurance program. The study also found that areas where grasslands were converted into farmland had the highest crop insurance payouts, nearly twice that of other areas.
Crop insurance is obtained through private insurers. The federal government pays most of the premiums, as well as administrative expenses. Last year, the crop insurance industry was paid about $1.3 billion to cover expenses for selling and servicing policies.
The existing crop insurance subsidy ballooned to $7.3 billion last year from $951 million in 2000, or about $1.2 billion adjusted for inflation, according to another G.A.O. report released in April. The costs of the program have risen as the value of crops has increased. Over the next 10 years, a Congressional Budget Office study estimates, the premium subsidy for the existing program will cost about $90 billion.
''This is better than a government bailout,'' said Steve Ellis, vice president of the Taxpayers for Common Sense, a budget watchdog group in Washington. ''A bailout is a one-time thing when something bad happens. But crop insurance keeps giving, good or bad. And it's about to give even more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Stutsman County, N.D., prairie-flower-studded grassland was burned and seeded with soybeans. Supporters say crop insurance provides a crucial safety net for farmers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEBORAH KATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROP INSURANCE (91%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); EROSION (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FLOOD ZONES (61%)

PERSON: DEBBIE STABENOW (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



255 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Amid Reports of a New Massacre, Nations Seek to Step Up Pressure on Syria

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and ANNIE LOWREY; Rick Gladstone reported from New York, and Annie Lowrey from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Hwaida Saad from Beirut, Lebanon; Alan Cowell from London; Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul; and J. David Goodman from New York.

 BODY:
Syrian opposition activists reported a mass killing of villagers by pro-government militiamen and security forces on Wednesday -- if verified, the fourth massacre in less than two weeks -- threatening to inject a new surge of angry momentum into the growing international effort to isolate President Bashar al-Assad and remove him from power.
The accounts of the mass killing, in the village of Qubeir in central Hama Province, could not be independently corroborated, and United Nations monitors in Syria could not immediately gain access to the site. The accounts said that as many as 78 civilians were killed, half of them women and children, including 35 members of one family. Some were burned and stabbed. 
The killings were reported as representatives of more than 55 countries pressing for Mr. Assad's resignation threatened to sharply expand their financial pressure on his government at a meeting in Washington sponsored by the United States Treasury, and as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton traveled to Turkey, an outspoken critic of Syria, for further talks on how to quickly reach a solution to the Syria crisis that would depose Mr. Assad.
A senior Western official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that Mrs. Clinton was sending Fred Hof, a special Middle East envoy from the State Department, to Moscow on Thursday to assess whether Russia and the United States could achieve a common vision on a post-Assad political transition in Syria. Russia, which has been Mr. Assad's most powerful foreign backer, has repeatedly opposed outside intervention in the Syrian conflict but has recently suggested it is not opposed to new leadership in Syria, its most important ally in the Middle East.
If the Qubeir massacre accounts are confirmed, they are likely to place enormous new pressure on Kofi Annan, the joint special envoy to Syria from the United Nations and the Arab League, whose nearly-two-month-old peace plan has not only failed to halt the bloodshed in the 16-month-old Syrian uprising but, in the view of some critics, has strengthened Mr. Assad's resolve.
Mr. Annan was en route to the United Nations to brief the Security Council and the General Assembly on Thursday, and Western diplomats said he was expected to bring some new proposals.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British group with a network of contacts in Syria that was among those reporting the Qubeir killings, called for an urgent investigation by the 300 United Nations cease-fire monitors who have been deployed in Syria under Mr. Annan's plan.
''They should not wait to tomorrow to investigate this new massacre,'' the group said in a statement. ''They should not give the excuse that their mission is only to observe the cease-fire, because many massacres have been committed during their presence in Syria.''
Members of the United Nations monitoring staff were able to gather some evidence in the aftermath of a May 25 massacre in Houla -- a string of villages in western Syria, in which 108 people were killed, nearly half of them children -- that pointed to complicity by pro-Assad militia members and soldiers. The Houla massacre focused new attention on the Syrian uprising and the danger that it could expand into a sectarian civil war that spills into neighboring countries. Two other episodes of mass killings of striking workers were reported in the days after the Houla massacre.
In Washington, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who hosted the so-called Friends of the Syrian People International Working Group on Sanctions, said in opening remarks that intensifying financial sanctions on Mr. Assad's government would work if aggressively enforced.
''Strong sanctions make clear to the Syrian business community and other supporters of the regime that their future is bleak so long as the Assad regime remains in power,'' he said. ''And strong sanctions can help hasten the day the Assad regime relinquishes power.''
Mr. Geithner said he hoped that ''all responsible countries will soon join in taking appropriate economic actions against the Syrian regime.'' But his remarks did not rule out the possibility that military action could also be invoked because sanctions could include, ''if necessary, Chapter 7 action in the U.N. Security Council. Absent meaningful compliance by the regime with the Annan plan, that is the direction in which we are soon headed.''
A Chapter 7 resolution could authorize further financial sanctions and the severance of diplomatic relations with Syria. Should that prove insufficient, though, it could authorize the use of military force.
The Syrian president, who has described the increasingly bloody political uprising against him as the work of foreign-backed terrorists, has shown no indication that he is prepared to relinquish power, in part because of backing from Russia and China, which have so far objected to any resolution that could lead to foreign military intervention in Syria.
But Mr. Assad did reorganize his government on Wednesday, appointing the agriculture minister, Riyad Farid Hijab, as prime minister and ordering him to form a new administration, according to the official SANA news agency.
What impact, if any, the changes might have in the Syrian conflict were unclear, although Mr. Assad's critics quickly denounced them as cosmetic moves meant to create the impression of political reform.
The president of the General Assembly, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz al-Nasser of Qatar, said it was possible that the 193-nation body would pass a new resolution to put further pressure on the Syrian government after hearing from Mr. Annan and others, including Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and the president of the Arab League, Nabil el-Araby, on Thursday.
''We are talking about stopping the violence and implementing Mr. Annan's six-point plan, which the Syrian government agreed on,'' he said. ''We don't see any positive action. Violence is still going on and that is not acceptable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BURN INJURIES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



256 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Iran Threatens Delays in Talks on Its Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and ARTIN AFKHAMI

 BODY:
Iran raised the possibility on Wednesday of delaying or canceling the resumption of nuclear talks with the big powers, scheduled in less than two weeks, because of what it called dithering by the other side in holding preliminary meetings aimed at ensuring some success.
The warning, made by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the office of Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief negotiator in the talks, came as its ambassador to the United Nations nuclear monitoring agency accused some of its inspectors of espionage. 
Taken together, the messages suggest that Iran's leaders have decided to reduce expectations that the negotiations, which resumed in April after a 15-month suspension, would produce an agreement on the country's disputed nuclear program, or at least lead to an easing of the onerous sanctions imposed on Iran by the United States and the European Union. The sanctions are scheduled to turn more severe on July 1, when the European Union bans all imports of Iranian oil, the country's most important export.
The warning of a possible delay in the next round of talks, to be held in Moscow on June 18 and 19, was conveyed by Mr. Jalili in a letter to his counterpart, Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief and chief negotiator for the big powers: Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States.
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, which reported the letter, said that Mr. Jalili had expressed irritation over what he called ''the E.U. failure to arrange experts' meeting led by deputies of the negotiators to draft agenda of the talks.'' The agency said this had ''created an atmosphere of doubt and ambiguity for success of the Moscow talks.''
Other Iranian news agencies said that Mr. Jalili's deputy, Ali Baqeri, had sent two letters to his counterpart in Ms. Ashton's office, Helga Schmid, requesting such a meeting and had received no response. ''The success of the Moscow meeting depends on making the necessary preparations and drawing up a comprehensive agenda,'' the Mehr News Agency quoted Mr. Baqeri's letter as saying.
Mr. Ahmadinejad, who was in Beijing for regional cooperation talks, also expressed irritation, saying Ms. Ashton's office had failed to keep its promises. ''We believe that the West is after concocting excuses and wasting time,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying by Iran's Press TV Web site.
A spokeswoman for Ms. Ashton, Maja Kocijancic, said in an e-mailed response for comment that Ms. Ashton had replied to the letter from Mr. Jalili and that she saw no need for further preparatory meetings. ''We are not against technical meetings in principle, but the time is not right,'' Ms. Kocijancic said.
Western diplomats said they believed that the Iranian requests for such meetings were part of a deliberate effort to bog down the process. Ms. Ashton and fellow negotiators have said they have no patience for stalling tactics or ''talks for the sake of talks.''
At the last meeting, on May 23 and 24 in Baghdad, the sides agreed to keep talking after having made no substantive progress in the underlying dispute: Iran's enrichment of uranium in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions demanding a suspension.
Iran has contended that its growing stockpile of enriched uranium is for peaceful energy and medical uses. The United States, the European Union and Israel have accused Iran of secretly working on the capacity to build nuclear weapons.
The suspicions were reinforced last November in a report by the International Atomic Energy Agency of the United Nations, which cataloged questionable activities in Iran, including possible testing of explosives that could be used in nuclear weapons triggers. Agency inspectors have sought access to the site where they suspect the testing took place, but Iran has not allowed it. Further talks on this issue are planned on Friday at the agency's Vienna headquarters.
The Iranians have demanded the evidence the agency cited as the basis for its suspicions. They have also complained about what they call the agency's demand for overly intrusive inspections.
Ali Asghar Soltanieh, Iran's ambassador to the agency, appeared to go further in his remarks on Wednesday to the agency's board of governors. ''The inspectors, which are supposed to verify fissionable nuclear materials and related nuclear facilities declared by member states according to the Safeguards Agreements, are forced by a couple of states to be involved in intelligence activities,'' he said in remarks quoted by Iranian news agencies.
Iran's nuclear efforts appeared to suffer a further setback this week with news that the country's Bushehr nuclear power plant, built by Russia, would face indefinite delays in achieving full electricity production. The Islamic Republic News Agency quoted Valery Limarenko, the head of Atomstroyexport, the Russian company that helped build the plant, as saying that further experimental trials were necessary and that the date when it would become fully operational ''has not been determined.''
The Bushehr plant has endured numerous delays since 1976, when Iran and a subsidiary of Siemens AG signed the original contract.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali Asghar Soltanieh, an Iranian envoy, accused some inspectors for a United Nations monitoring agency of espionage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERWIG PRAMMER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ESPIONAGE (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); SAEED JALILI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



257 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Age of Unsatisfying Wars

BYLINE: By JOHN A. NAGL. 
John A. Nagl, a research professor at the United States Naval Academy and a retired Army officer, helped write the Army/Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual.

 BODY:
Washington
THIS Memorial Day, President Obama recognized veterans of all of the nation's wars, but focused on two: the war in Iraq, which came to an end, for Americans, this past year, and the Vietnam War, which began, for Americans, 50 years ago.
Mr. Obama was quiet, however, about the war in Afghanistan, the one for which he will be remembered in military history. Perhaps that's because things in Afghanistan are still muddled; will it end like Vietnam -- an abject, helicopters-flying-out-of-Kabul, people-hanging-on-the-skids defeat -- or in an unsatisfying and untidy sort-of victory, like Iraq? 
From a traditional point of view, neither option seems particularly attractive. But Mr. Obama should welcome an Iraq-like end to Afghanistan: as contradictory as it may seem, messy and unsatisfying are the hallmarks of success in modern counterinsurgency wars.
America can live, for example, with the current Iraqi government and its policies, and Iraq's increasing oil output will help the global economic recovery. This is an unsatisfying return on the blood and treasure we poured into Iraq, but it is not a complete loss -- and it is far better than we could have imagined in 2006, when Iraq was descending into civil war and Al Qaeda had established an important foothold there.
It is not unlikely that 2015 will see a similarly reasonable Afghan government that will hold together with American money and advisers -- an unsatisfying end, but not a failure, and not without promise of greater stability to come.
Unsatisfying wars are the stock in trade of counterinsurgency; rarely, if ever, will they end with a surrender ceremony and look like a conventional victory. And yet this is the sort of war we have fought, almost exclusively, for over 50 years. President John F. Kennedy warned those graduating from West Point in 1961 that they would struggle to defeat insurgent enemies: ''Where there is a visible enemy to fight in open combat, the answer is not so difficult. Many serve, all applaud, and the tide of patriotism runs high. But when there is a long, slow struggle, with no immediately visible foe, your choice will seem hard indeed.''
The choices of that West Point class, and of those that would follow it into a counterinsurgency campaign in Southeast Asia, were more difficult than their young president could imagine. Although the Army made real progress in understanding and implementing counterinsurgency principles under Gen. Creighton W. Abrams Jr., the lesson of Vietnam was not to fight irregular wars in Asia.
The Army learned that lesson all too well, forgetting what it had learned in the jungle and focusing on a conventional war with the Soviet Union. The Army and Marines quickly destroyed Saddam Hussein's military in 2003, only to find themselves facing an enemy they should have expected: insurgents, some inspired by radical Islam, but many more by simple nationalism.
Hard lessons in counterinsurgency had to be relearned before Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates and Gen. David H. Petraeus implemented a strategy that combined fighting with negotiations. The 2007 surge, employing new counterinsurgency tactics, and the mindless brutality of the insurgent group Al Qaeda in Iraq persuaded the Sunni tribes to ''flip'' and start fighting the radicals rather than Americans.
The surge changed the war in Iraq dramatically, even as Barack Obama, then a candidate for president, was promising to swing resources away from Iraq and into the ''good war'' in Afghanistan. President Obama fulfilled his campaign promise and then some, tripling American forces in Afghanistan during his first year while also doubling down on drone strikes in Pakistan.
Again, the strategy, aided by the killing of Osama bin Laden by a Navy SEAL team, worked to a degree. With Al Qaeda effectively dismantled, a government that is good enough to run the country is likely to be sufficient to achieve core American national security objectives as well.
Like any successful counterinsurgency, Afghanistan is likely to end somewhat unsatisfyingly for Americans, with a corrupt but gradually improving government in Kabul, advisers helping Afghan security forces fight a weakening but still dangerous Taliban, and a schizophrenic Pakistan alternately helping Afghan and Taliban fighters.
It may also, in the odd logic of counterinsurgency, be more likely to succeed if we leave the project somewhat unfinished. T. E. Lawrence, no slouch as an insurgent himself, advised: ''Do not try to do too much with your own hands ... It is their war, and you are to help them, not to win it for them.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 09, 2012 

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An Op-Ed article on Thursday about counterinsurgency misstated the year President John F. Kennedy warned West Point graduates about the dangers of such warfare. It was 1962, not 1961.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); HELICOPTERS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%); AL-QAEDA (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



258 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Not Afraid to Talk About Race

BYLINE: CHARLES M. BLOW


HIGHLIGHT: The racial diversity among Democrats and the lack of it among Republicans means that the two bases bring differing concerns to the national debate. 

 BODY:
Hey, I heard that: "Oh no, the black columnist is writing about race, again."
Yes, I am. Deal with it. The moment we allow ourselves to be browbeaten out of having important discussions about issues that persist, we cease to command the requisite conviction to wield the pen - or to peck on a keyboard, but you get my drift.
Varying political views among racial and ethnic groups are real. 
They have always informed our politics, and no doubt they will continue to do so. The idea, naively held by many, that the election of the first black president would nullify racial grievances, bridge racial differences and erase racial animosities has quickly faded. We find ourselves once again trying to wrestle with the meaning and importance of race in our politics. 
In fact, one could argue that examinations of racial attitudes in politics have become more fraught as racial motives, political objectives, and accusations and denials of racism and reverse-racism serve as a kind of subterfuge hiding resentments and prejudices.
Either racial attitudes are naked, blatant and visible, this thinking goes, or they're nonexistent, manufactured by race-baiters and hucksters as devices of division. The middle ground, sprinkled with land mines made up of racial labels, is now a place where fair-minded people dare not tread.
That's a shame. 
But it's not going to stop me. Strap on your lead boots and let's go for a stroll.
A Pew Research Center American values survey released this week offers fascinating insights into how racially divergent values and the changing racial compositions of political parties influence our politics.
Let's look at the racial makeup of the two major parties: from 2000 to 2012 the percentage of Republicans who are white has remained relatively steady, about 87 percent. On the other hand, the percentage of Democrats who are white has dropped nine percentage points, from 64 percent in 2000 to 55 percent in 2012. If current trends persist, in a few years the Democratic Party will be a majority minority party. But the largest drop in the white percentage has been among Independents: they were 79 percent white in 2000, but they are only 67 percent white now.
The racial diversity among Democrats and the lack of it among Republicans means that the two bases bring differing sets of concerns to the national debate.
For instance, blacks and Hispanics are far more likely to believe that poverty is a result of circumstances beyond a person's control than a result of lack of effort.
Blacks and Hispanics also look far more favorably on the role of government, particularly as it relates to guarding against poverty and evening a playing field that they feel is tilted. 78 percent of both blacks and Hispanics believe that government should guarantee everyone enough to eat and a place to sleep, while only 52 percent of whites agreed with that idea. 
This is not to say that minorities who favor a stronger government want more government handouts. There was very little difference in the percentage of blacks, Hispanics and whites who believed that poor people have become too dependent on government assistance programs (it's pretty high for all three groups, at 70, 69 and 72 percent, respectively). 
They seem to want a chance, not a check.
To wit, 62 percent of blacks and 59 percent of Hispanics say that we should make every possible effort to improve the position of blacks and other minorities, even if it means giving them preferential treatment. Not surprisingly, only 22 percent of whites agreed with this idea. Only 12 percent of Republicans - almost all of whom are white - agreed. This percentage has been decreasing since 2007, while the percentage of white Democrats who agree has been increasing.
Now what does that mean for the presidential race?
A staggering 90 percent of Romney supporters are white. Only 4 percent are Hispanic, less than 1 percent are black and another 4 percent are another race.
Of Obama's supporters, 57 percent are white, 23 percent are black, 12 percent are Hispanic and 7 percent are another race.
And what of the all important swing voters (those who are undecided, who lean towards a candidate, or who say that they could change their mind)? Nearly three out of four are white. The rest are roughly 8 percent each blacks, Hispanics and another race.
That might explain why the Pew poll found that the swing voters lean more towards Obama voters on issues like civil liberties and the role of labor unions, but are closer to Romney voters on the role of social safety nets, immigration and minority-preference programs. 
Put another way, Romney voters and swing voters - who are both overwhelming white - agree on the more racially charged issues.
Pointing out these correlations is not only valid, it is instructive and helpful. In large part this election will be about the role of government in our lives and different racial and ethnic groups view that particular issue very differently. 
The economy always looms large, but for those who feel left behind by the economy even when it's roaring, but especially when it sputters, social safety nets and governmental activism can also have tremendous weight.
The trick will be to have a conversation about the direction of the country that takes that into account but lifts the language to a level were common goals can be seen from differing racial vantage points - to show a way to be merciful to those struggling while providing a path to financial independence and social equality. Contrary to what many Americans think, most people do in fact want a hand up and not a hand out.

        
Economy or Personality?
        
Other Stops: Wide Open Spaces
        
Other Stops: Talks About Iraq Must Involve Iran
        
Obama Conquers the Crabgrass Frontier
        
Other Stops: Effecting Real Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); RACE & RACISM (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); TRENDS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); WRITERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); ETHNICITY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) Barack Obama; Pew Research Center; race; the Democratic Party; the Republican Party; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Minorities; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Race and Ethnicity; Social Conditions and Trends; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



259 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Do You Expect Europe's Problems to Affect Your Business?

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: A weaker Europe has meant a stronger dollar, making American products more expensive. 

 BODY:
This week The Times reported that an increasing number of American companies are warning that sales in Europe are slowing -- and that the situation could get much worse. "Prospects for the European economy darkened in recent days," Nathaniel Popper wrote, "as surveys showed that manufacturing across the euro zone contracted in May and the unemployment rate climbed to a record 11 percent."
The story noted that manufacturing has also slowed in India and China. Perhaps most ominously, it added that a weaker Europe has meant a stronger dollar -- "making American products more expensive. In Asia, several countries rely heavily on exports to Europe and are consequently slowing down in manufacturing, which in turn lowers Asian demand for imports. Even companies around the world that are not dependent on exports are vulnerable as consumer confidence is eroded."
Do you do business in Europe? If so, have you seen an impact? If not, are you concerned that the European crisis could affect your business anyway?

        
What's in the Obama Jobs Plan for Small Businesses
        
At Obama Jobs Speech, Small Business Is in Audience
        
This Week in Small Business: Get Your Party Hats On!
        
This Week in Small Business: Tax Day Today, Deficits Tomorrow
        
This Week in Small Business: The Shutdown and the Showdown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EURO CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (71%) economy; Europe; exports; going global; small business economy; International Trade and World Market; Small Business; Today's Question

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



260 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Thursday Reading: College Admissions Books for Summer Reading

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: College admissions books for summer reading, Nasdaq sets aside $40 million to settle Facebook trading claims, a study finds that CT scans increase children's cancer risk and other consumer-focused news in today's Times. 

 BODY:

        
Tests of parents are used to map genes of a fetus. (Science)
        
San Diego and San Jose lead the way in pension cuts. (U.S.)
        
Opponents of gay marriage face tougher test in Washington State. (U.S.)
        
CT scans increase children's cancer risk, study finds. (Well)
        
Obama to ease enrollment in student loan repayment program. (U.S.)
        
Labor unionssuffer a new setback in Wisconsin. (U.S.)
        
Democrats' comments spark tax cut debate. (U.S.)
        
Two New York hospitals look to combine, forming giant. (N.Y./Region)
        
At 7-Eleven, the Big Gulps elude a ban by the city. (N.Y./Region)
        
Nasdaq sets aside $40 million to settle Facebook claims. (Business Day)
        
Bill pushes for increase in wages. (Business Day)
        
Foursquare shifts its focus to recommendations. (Business Day)
        
Apple's MobileMe service will soon shut down forever. (Business Day)
        
A little optimism at the Federal Reserve. (Business Day)
        
Fed survey shows economy growing modestly. (Business Day)
        
U.S. regulator in JPMorgan loss. (Business Day)
        
Is it okay to be a mediocre employee? (You're the Boss)
        
How to make the technology in our lives work better. (Business Day)
        
Cricket to offer a . (Gadgetwise)
        
Two HTC One phones, both pleasing. (Gadgetwise)
        
StreetSafe app helps keep loved ones safe. (Personal Tech)
        
Final thoughts on the booming mobile apps industry. (Personal Tech)
        
Off to camp, but first...a wax? (Fashion & Style)
        
College admissions books for summer reading. (The Choice)
        
College's true cost. (Opinion)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); CANCER (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: APPLE INC (68%); 7-ELEVEN INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (68%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (68%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (68%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (68%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (68%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



261 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Do You Have a Job?

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: What jobs have you had in the past? What is your dream job? Does it require a college degree? 

 BODY:
In her article "More Young Americans Out of High School Are Also Out of Work," Catherine Rampell writes:
Whatever the sob stories about recent college graduates spinning their wheels as baristas or clerks, the situation for their less-educated peers is far worse, according to a report from the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University scheduled to be released on Wednesday. The data comes from a national survey of high school graduates who are not enrolled in college full time, a notoriously transient population that social scientists and other experts had been having trouble tracking. (In the two months since the survey was conducted, a large share of participants have had their phone numbers disconnected and could not be reached.)
For this group, finding work that pays a living wage and offers some sense of security has been elusive.
"I want more money, and I really don't like what I do," said Walter Walden, 24, of Wenatchee, Wash., one of the lucky members of this group who has a full-time job, in this case, at a restaurant. "I had to go back to school." He now lives with his mother so he can take nursing classes part time.
Workers just a few years younger than Mr. Walden have been thrust into a daunting combination of a temporarily feeble economy and the longer-term elimination of traditional middle-class jobs.
Americans who graduated from high school just before layoffs started to swell - in this report, defined as 2006-8 - were having trouble making ends meet. Just 37 percent employed were full time and another 23 percent were working part time, usually because they could not find full-time work.
But among those who graduated after the financial crisis, the numbers are far worse: only 16 percent of the classes of 2009-11 had full-time jobs. An additional 22 percent were working part time, and most of them wanted full-time work.
Despite the continuing national conversation about whether college is worth it given the debt burden it entails, most high school graduates without college degrees said they believed they would be unable to get good jobs without more education.
Students: Tell us about your own work history, and whether you're working now. What is your dream job? Does it require a college degree? Do you have a backup plan? Do you know anybody who has chosen a career out of high school instead of going on to college? What do they think of the decision? What would you do to create more rewarding, or at least available, jobs for people who can not or do not want to pursue higher education?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
What Do You Hope to Be Doing the Year After You Graduate From College?
        
How Close Are You to Your Parents?
        
Under One Roof
        
Should Kids Head to College Early?
        
College Graduates and the Cities They Choose

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) college; Education; high school; jobs; U.S. economy; Student Opinion

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



262 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: At Another Job Fair, Hope This Will Be the One

BYLINE: RHEA CHEDID


HIGHLIGHT: Applicants at a job fair in Brooklyn had different backgrounds, but they repeatedly spoke of the difficulty in finding work. 

 BODY:
Linda Baker walked from employer to employer at a job fair in Brooklyn on Thursday, inquiring about opportunities. Ever since being laid off from her construction job three years ago, Ms. Baker, who is in her 40s, has been constantly searching for some kind of work. 
She had already handed out her rsum to four prospective employers at the fair, at Public School 375 in Crown Heights, and she was just getting started. 
"There is another job fair on Monday, and one on Wednesday in Manhattan; that is where I will be," she said. Many other people lined up in front of the school are going through the same routine.
June is American Job Fair Month, and on Thursday, there were three job fairs in New York City - the others were at the Harlem Armory and at York College in Queens. 
At the fair at P.S. 375, organized by State Senator Eric Adams, rows of tables filled the gymnasium, staffed by representatives of employers that included Time Warner, Citibank, Barclays, Cablevision, the New York Fire Department, the federal Department of Homeland Security. 
Sheila Wimberly, Mr. Adams's chief of staff, said that both the number and the variety of people attending the fair had increased in recent years. On Thursday, there were college students, graduates and people well past their college years, all in search of jobs that have become hard to find.
 According to the most recent figures, the city's unemployment rate was 9.5 percent in April, down slightly from 9.7 percent in March, but still well above the national rate of 8.1 percent. Like Ms. Baker, many people at the fair said they had been unemployed for several years.
Young graduates were also having trouble. Devon Hill graduated from Stony Brook University two weeks ago and has been looking for a job since February, but has been offered only unpaid internships.
Senator Adams said he hoped the fair would help "the newly graduated and those who have given up." He urged graduates to apply for all sorts of jobs, not just ones in their field of study, because it is a way for young people to get a foot into the work force. 
That was the mind-set of William Robinson, who received a journalism degree four years ago. There were no companies represented at the fair from the ever-contracting journalism industry. But Mr. Robinson said he would give his rsum to anybody who would accept it. "It's all about finding a safe, steady, local job," he said.
Many employers said the number of applicants had increased lately. Serena Rhoden, who accepts applications for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said she got 20 to 40 calls a day asking about jobs. It is never difficult to fill a position, she said; it is all a matter of "finding the right qualified person." 
She told job-seekers Thursday that she could not guarantee them a job. All she could do was to pass on names and rsums to a supervisor. 
Some of the job-seekers said they had to keep trying not to lose heart. A middle-aged woman who gave her name only as Sharon P. said of the woman beside her: "My friend has two master's, and she has to compete with young college graduates and young veterans. But what can you do? You have to put yourself out there."

        
City Jobless Rate Rises, Exceeding the Nation's
        
Unemployment Rate Drops Again
        
City's Unemployment Rate Dips to 10 Percent
        
Gay, and Seeking a Job
        
City Unemployment Rate Exceeds 10%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (94%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%) employment; job fairs; Unemployment; Adams, Eric; Labor and Jobs; Crown Heights (NYC); Housing & Economy; Labor

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: Adams, Eric

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Crown Heights (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



263 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Open)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: CHI 2012 Conference Q&A With Joseph Konstan

BYLINE: BRAD STENGER


HIGHLIGHT: Eight weeks after the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference, Austin again became a hub for creative technologists. The CHI 2012 conference is an annual gathering for researchers who focus on human-computer interaction (HCI). I spoke to CHI General Conference Chair Joseph Konstan to get his take on where the field of HCI is headed and how it applies to media and journalism. 

 BODY:
Eight weeks after the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference, Austin again became a hub for creative technologists. The CHI 2012 conference is an annual gathering for researchers who focus on human-computer interaction (HCI). CHI 2012 is produced by ACM, the Association for Computing Machinery, a professional society for computing researchers. 
According to University of Minnesota Computer Science professor Joseph Konstan, an expert in the field of "recommender systems" and the General Conference Chair (that is, the guy in charge at CHI 2012), human-computer interaction began as a research field that sought to build a bridge from computing to the social sciences. In the process, HCI spawned a range of professions that combine social research, design and technology. User experience, interaction design, usability research and information architecture are all descendants of HCI. 
Almost 25,000 people attended the SxSW Interactive Conference, compared to 2600 CHI attendees, though both conferences featured wide-ranging programs at the leading edge of technology, but as an academic-oriented research conference CHI's program was a product of open submissions and a selective, rigorous peer-review. It was a staggering amount of work to curate. All together, almost 1,000 presentations, exhibits, posters and prototypes passed muster and are on display. "The challenge is that people won't be able to see but a fraction of it. Hopefully we help people to find the fraction that is most interesting to them," says Konstan. 
I spoke to Konstan at the conference to get his take on where the field of HCI is headed and how it applies to media and journalism.
 TimesOpen: I studied Human-Computer Interaction at Georgia Tech and have been coming to CHI on and off for years. You said that you started working on the 2012 conference two years ago; now that it's here, what are you most excited about?
 Joseph Konstan: We've brought in some communities that haven't been a big part of this conference before, and often were not well integrated in the field. We've really kicked up the efforts in the Digital Arts [area] because we feel strongly that there's something substantial for us to learn. When we think about human-computer interaction from people who have a very different perspective on human-technology interaction, an artist's perspective is very different from an engineer's, or even an interaction designer's. And I was delighted to see the amount of interesting stuff in sustainability, in interfaces for the developing world, in healthcare - often specifically healthcare applications for [the] elderly and children.
 TimesOpen: So I studied HCI and now I work for The New York Times. What's the relationship between HCI and media?
 Joseph Konstan: The dominant way of interacting with media is through computing today. It doesn't matter if it's The New York Times, or television, which involves some fairly sophisticated computing, or the social media that are out there. That opens all sorts of interesting problems, and also some opportunities.
The problem is you have a different kind of control over the user experience. When you had print, you gave people a layout and you had a very clear understanding [of] how that layout mapped into people's experience. People didn't bring their own device and their own customization to it. Now you suddenly say, "I'm going to put this online, and what it looks like on my cellphone, and what it looks like on my laptop, and what it looks like on my 40-inch screen are very different." The human factors issues are different, and then you add the interactivity and social elements.
When we were laying out the program, the three biggest themes that came up were interaction techniques, social media and social computing, and interaction design.
The one that's closest to my own area is social computing. Depending on the field, there's anywhere from 40 to 100 years of background you can draw from that examines how people react as social beings, but it's never been adequately translated to say, "What's the right way to design an interactive story when we're not receivers anymore, we're participants?"
 TimesOpen: There's lots to figure out when it comes to interactive storytelling, but people are overloaded with information, and a lot of it is news. What happens when we've got an unlimited array of news products and services?
 Joseph Konstan: I think that's clearly not [purely] good. There are parts of that that are bad. The problem with having the world at your fingertips is that you have too much.
There still are people that act as tour guides. I think a newspaper editor, and a reporter for that matter, are tour guides of a form. What's changing is people's trust in who the guides are, and what their interests are, and how much they want to shape something personally.
We keep experimenting with different mixes. How much do I want to follow people I know? How much do I want to follow people I respect? How much do I want the system to learn and to infer what I like, based on what I've liked so far? [I say that] with a full disclaimer that that's my area of research going back 15 years, the personalization of content, primarily by looking at other people's ratings.
I believe that recommending "what people you know like" is overrated. People trust people they know because they know them, but if you gave me the choice of going to a restaurant that a friend went to, and going to a restaurant that 1000 people who share my taste have selected, I'll pick the place that 1000 people who share my taste have selected.
 TimesOpen: What does that mean for a news organization where it's not 1,000 people, it's a bunch of reporters, editors and developers?
 Joseph Konstan: I think that there's probably a separation coming.
There is still an essential function involved in providing high-quality news. Providing the raw research articles is something that isn't going to go away, though certainly the economics of it are changing. Then there's another role that The Times has always played, and that's picking which stories you need to know.
I don't think those things are going to stay together for long. I don't think they're staying together very much now.
I think the quality imprimatur on an article has value. The degree to which somebody is going to care what the front-page editor of The Times has decided is front-page news - [that] I don't know.
 TimesOpen: Curation is something we struggle with. It's hard to get it to scale up. Crowdsourcing seems promising.
 Joseph Konstan: There are people doing all sorts of exciting things.
 TimesOpen: I know I'm getting a lot out of CHI. But is the journalism community putting enough into it?
 Joseph Konstan: Let's separate what it means to "put into it." If you're saying, do we get a lot of submissions of content coming from journalists, then no. I think one of the challenges CHI faces - and all academic conferences that go through rigorous peer review face - is that people who are in practice are rarely rewarded for putting the time in to [write] up what they do.
So we'll do different things to attract people who come from the various practice communities. And that's true for practicing user-interface experts, usability engineers, interface designers.
It's a hard sell to say, "Come and sit through 20 minutes of somebody presenting 10 pages of what they wrote." Your first reaction is, well, I could read it. Followed by, "but I won't." But since I could, I don't have to sit through it.
Figuring out which ones are really exciting if you have an area of focus, it's easy. If you know you're interested in crowdsourcing, there's some phenomenal crowdsourcing work at this conference, but it's spread out over 4 days of content.
 TimesOpen: You hear complaints that technology journalism is superficial. It doesn't go in-depth enough. Is that part of the same "I'll get to it later" mentality?
 Joseph Konstan: I that depends on what the audience is. In our local paper, we have a pretty good personal technology journalist who reviews all the latest gadgets. He'll spend the week working with them and trying them, but he's not the person to go to if you're asking something more than "What's the latest word on what the iPad 4 might be."
I don't think that's unique to technology journalists. For people who cover science, there isn't a consumer science venue out there where you can go and say, "Here's the latest physics on the market." Anytime you have a choice of covering "what is" and covering the foundational work of what might one day develop into something, there's a large demand to know "what is." It takes a little bit of investment to go out and focus on things [that] might turn into something.
 TimesOpen: That's what allowed me to go from studying HCI to working in journalism. If I could understand some of this forward-looking stuff, then explaining something technical would be a piece of cake in comparison.
 Joseph Konstan: The flip side works well also. I find [that] people who are good at human communication, people who are good at telling the story of something, tend to do very well in HCI because they can put themselves in the position of understanding the audience or the user. Even though the field inherited from experimental science and engineering, it's very much a human-centered field.
 Note: A version of this post also appeared on beta620.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (92%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%) Conferences

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013



264 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Can India 'Fix' Afghanistan?

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: Despite economic and development woes of its own, India may be a practical aid partner for Afghanistan. 

 BODY:
As the United States winds down its military engagement in Afghanistan, optimism is growing about the role India can play to stabilize and develop the country.
This week, visiting United States Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta encouraged Indian leaders to take a more active role in Afghanistan, involvement once considered by the United States as merely an opportunistic way for India to antagonize Pakistan.
The United States' encouragement is hardly needed. India plans to "intensify" its already "high level political engagement and broad-based development assistance in a wide range of sectors," India's minister for external affairs, S.M. Krishna, told Afghanistan's visiting foreign minister, Zalmai Rassoul, in a speech in New Delhi last month. With assistance from Europe and the United States expected to drop substantially, India may be left as one of Afghanistan's most prominent aid partners.
Here on India Ink, we have been asking: Does this make any sense? On first glance, at least, India seems an unlikely provider of development assistance because of the serious issues troubling it at home. Many of the same things that Afghanistan needs, from infrastructure to education, India is having troubles providing for many citizens, even without the regular threat of attacks from the Taliban.
India's state-run power industry struggles to get enough fuel thanks to mismanagement and bureaucracy, even its brightest youth can't land a spot at a good university and about third of its citizens live in destitute poverty, with hundreds of millions malnourished. The current central government is grappling with a growing deficit, shrinking economic growth and an increasingly dissatisfied voter base.
It's no surprise that India's Afghanistan plans have been greeted with some skepticism.
"In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king," said Rajeev Malik, an economist at CLSA, a research and brokerage house, who has been a sharp critic of India's fiscal policy and government. "India has not managed to fix these issues itself," he said, but added that the country "probably has more experience than Afghanistan."
India's on-the-ground aid record, though limited, has been decent.
India has committed some $2 billion in aid to Afghanistan, of which $1 billion has been spent, according to the Ministry of External Affairs. Indian public and private companies have built a highway to Iran, put up transmission lines to bring power to Kabul, are constructing a new Parliament building and working on a hydro-electric project in western Afghanistan.
India sent one million tons of high-protein biscuits to Afghanistan, and plans to follow that with an additional 250,000 tons this year. There are 1,000 Afghan students on scholarships in Indian universities right now.
More ambitious plans are in place. In October of last year, when Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, visited India, the two countries signed a strategic agreement that said India would train and equip Afghan security forces. This month, India is holding meetings for regional investors interested in Afghanistan in New Delhi.
Invitees include Turkey, China and Pakistan. Over a dinner in May in New Delhi, Mr. Rassoul told Indian government advisers Afghanistan would like India to concentrate on building up governance, law courts and health care.
"We don't want a fundamentalist Afghanistan, just like everyone else," explained Syed Akbaruddin, spokesman for India's Ministry of External Affairs, in a recent interview. "We don't want an Afghanistan that slides backward."
The two countries share ties cemented long ago, he said, citing the well-known Rabindranath Tagore story "Kabuliwala," about an Afghan fruit seller who befriends an Indian girl. India has a limited physical presence on the ground in Afghanistan, he said, which should quell concerns that India is focused on containing or antagonizing Pakistan. "What do we have in Afghanistan that is a threat to Pakistan?," he asked rhetorically.
India's aid to Afghanistan comes without any conditions, unlike aid to India from foreign countries in the past, he said. India is not pressuring the Afghanistan government to improve, say, education for girls, or rights for women, but is focusing on infrastructure and other concrete projects, he said.
India's projects in Afghanistan are "replicas of what India has been able to successfully implement in some part of India or the other," said Mr. Akbaruddin. "They have been incubated in some part of India."
Staunch supporters of India's involvement say sheer practicality of the alliance makes it work.
"Today the average Afghan knows that for many of the things that would lead to an improved quality of life, India offers the most viable option," said C. Uday Bhaskar, a security analyst based in New Delhi.
To explain, he offered an example: The quality of higher education in Britain or the United States or Australia might be better than in India, he said, but most Afghans can't afford Western universities, and if even they could, they probably wouldn't get a visa to go anyway.
Much of what is on Afghanistan's "wish list" can be "enabled in a considerable degree by India," Mr. Bhaskar said. President Karzai himself attended an Indian university, doing his postgraduate studies at Himachal Pradesh University, in Shimla.
Others note that the "aid" relationship is not new. "People forget this has been going on quietly for a long time," said K. Shankar Bajpai, a former ambassador to China, Pakistan and the United States, who is now an analyst with Delhi Policy Group. For six decades, India was "very much engaged" in Afghanistan, working on everything from building tunnels through the mountains of the Hindu Kush to education and health programs.
Recently, the two countries have built up a "friendly relationship without some of the imperial hang-ups that spoiled Delhi and Kabul's relationship in the past," he said. In a sign of this friendliness, in March, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called Mr. Karzai to congratulate him on the birth of his daughter.
Another factor to consider is that while India's development problems weigh heavily on the country's poor and middle class, facilities for the wealthy in India are often world class. Many of Afghanistan's wealthy are already beneficiaries, and these upper-class industries and ties are only expected to grow.
Take health care: India's private hospitals, and especially those in New Delhi, serve as de facto doctors' offices for wealthy Afghans, who are just a two-hour flight away. Hospitals like Max Healthcare's giant facility in Saket have special facilitators for Afghan patients who come for everything from in vitro fertilization treatments to heart trouble, doctors say. Often, their Afghan patients pay in crisp United States dollar bills.
On the other end of the economic spectrum, at least one Indian charity has also been successful in Afghanistan.
The Self Employed Women's Association(SEWA), which starts women's self-help groups, has been running vocational training programs in Afghanistan since 2008, teaching women to make jam and sew clothing, among other skills. The group said it has trained 3,000 Afghan women so far, despite two fatal terrorist attacks on the team in Kabul. The women, who are often orphans or widows, use the training to earn an income outside their home.
Whether the ambitious plans in industries like mining and manufacturing will work out remains to be seen. In November, a consortium of public and private Indian companies, led by the state-owned Steel Authority of India, won a bid to mine in three states in Afghanistan, which includes the construction of a six million-ton steel plant, an 800-megawatt power plant and 200 kilometers each of road, rail and transmission lines - as well as a pledge to set aside one percent of profits for establishing educational and medical facilities.
"We are very bullish about this," the chairman of SAIL said when the deal was announced. Total investment by the Indian companies is pegged at $10.8 billion.
The big numbers, heavy-duty infrastructure plans and optimistic outlook are a stark contrast to SAIL's India performance. In February, SAIL said quarterly profits fell by more than 40 percent from the same period the year before, thanks in part to higher raw material costs and SAIL's inability to get coal from another state-owned company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALIBAN (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); MALNUTRITION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (51%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%) Karzai, Hamid; Panetta, Leon V; Singh, Manmohan; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Economic Conditions and Trends; Infrastructure (Public Works); Mines and Mining; Philanthropy; Taliban; Afghanistan; India; Kabul (Afghanistan); Pakistan; United States

COMPANY: INDIA INK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (90%); HAMAD KARZAI (78%); MANMOHAN SINGH (73%) Karzai, Hamid; Panetta, Leon V; Singh, Manmohan

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) Afghanistan; India; Kabul (Afghanistan); Pakistan; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012



265 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Making Sense of Morgan Stanley's Derivatives Moves

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: While many big banks warehouse nearly all of their derivatives in subsidiaries that rely on federally insured deposits to fund themselves, Morgan Stanley does not -- and it could weigh on profits in an already lackluster environment. 

 BODY:
As regulators and lawmakers take a closer look at derivatives, Morgan Stanley is trying to figure out what to do with $50 trillion of such financial instruments.
Some of the biggest players in derivatives, including JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, have long warehoused nearly all of their derivatives in bank subsidiaries that rely on federally insured deposits to fund themselves. Morgan Stanley does not -- and it could weigh on profits in an already lackluster environment.
Taxpayer-backed funding is the main reason these bank subsidiaries have higher credit ratings than the financial firms that own them. The banks' derivatives customers typically prefer to deal with entities that have higher credit ratings. So by placing the derivatives in such subsidiaries, the parent banks have been able to get more advantageous terms on nearly all the derivatives trades they make with their customers.
JPMorgan Chase locates 99 percent of its derivatives at an insured bank, according to bank regulatory data. The figure for Goldman Sachs is 92 percent. In stark contrast, Morgan Stanley has a mere 5 percent of its $50 trillion of derivatives at its insured bank, which has a higher credit rating than the parent company.
The reason the figure is so much lower at Morgan Stanley than at Goldman, its chief rival, goes back to the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, both firms converted into bank holding companies to take advantage of bailout money from the Federal Reserve. As part of that move, the Fed granted extraordinary exemptions that allowed both firms to transfer assets into the insured bank subsidiaries. Goldman used the moment to transfer vast amounts of its derivatives. Morgan Stanley did not.
The decision has left Morgan Stanley particularly exposed as it faces the threat of a big downgrade of its credit rating. Moody's Investors Service said in February that, as part of a review of the ratings of many large banks, Morgan Stanley's rating could be cut by as much as three notches. Moody's said it could announce its decision sometime this month.
If that happens, the bank's derivatives customers may decide to reduce business with Morgan Stanley, and some may be forced to exit deals because of ratings-downgrade clauses in their contracts. In that case, earnings could get crimped at Morgan Stanley, which has the third-highest amount of derivatives among United States banks, after JPMorgan and Bank of America.
Morgan Stanley could protect itself ahead by shifting all its derivatives into the insured bank, which has a higher credit rating. But large transfers are supposedly prevented by regulations that aim to stop financial firms from exploiting the taxpayer subsidy enjoyed by insured banks.
In particular, transactions between an insured bank and an affiliated entity cannot exceed 10 to 20 percent of the bank's capital, unless regulators grant an exemption. That means Morgan Stanley cannot shift derivatives valued at more than $2.1 billion, which is 20 percent of the bank's $10.5 billion of capital.
But a loophole may exist for banks.
The critical question for regulators is how to value the derivatives that a bank wants to transfer. In short, if the derivatives can somehow be measured in a way that minimizes their value, financial firms would be able to shift more of them without bumping up against the limits.
Laws limiting derivatives transfers were tightened by the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul legislation, but the new rules did not resolve how to calculate the size of derivatives transfers, said Saule T. Omarova, an assistant professor at University of North Carolina's School of Law. "That's the black box that each institution has," she said.
Since the end of 2010, the amount of derivatives at Morgan Stanley's bank has grown by $2.2 trillion, on a so-called notional basis. The increase appears to be the result of transfers, not the insured bank writing new business.
Earlier this year, Morgan Stanley's chief financial officer, Ruth Porat, said the firm had a plan to move more derivatives into its bank, adding that it had started doing this with foreign-exchange-related derivatives. It was precisely this type of derivative that accounted for the $2.2 trillion increase in derivatives at the insured bank.
How could Morgan Stanley apparently have transferred some $2.2 trillion of derivatives and stayed below its $2 billion maximum threshold?
It would seem to be a wide gap. But analysts, quite reasonably, argue that notional measurements vastly overstate the value of derivatives.
Instead, they say, derivatives should be measured using something called fair value, an accounting term that means either the actual or estimated value the derivatives would fetch in the market.
Even so, such an approach can swing wildly, making fair value a imprecise metric for regulators to use. In the fourth quarter, some of the foreign exchange derivatives at Morgan Stanley's bank had a positive fair value of $30.8 billion, and some had a negative fair value of $24.4 billion, according to the bank's regulatory filings.
Subtracting negative from positive gives a net positive fair value of $6.4 billion, well above the putative $2 billion transfer cap. But in the first quarter, the net fair value of those derivatives was just $6 million, underscoring how unreliable fair value may be for measuring derivatives for the purpose of transfers.
Last fall, when Bank of America attempted to shift some derivatives into an insured bank, a group of lawmakers, including Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, protested and asked bank regulators to clarify their positions on the transfers. Morgan Stanley's moves may attract similar scrutiny in Congress.
Senator Brown said on Wednesday that he was going to look into Morgan Stanley's moves and any associated regulatory responses. "American taxpayers should not have to pay for risky Wall Street practices," he said.

        
Three Major Banks Prepare for Possible Credit Downgrades
        
Between the Lines, Wall St. Banks Face a Deficit of Trust

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%) Derivatives; financial reform; Morgan Stanley; Sherrod Brown; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; News Analysis

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); MORGAN STANLEY (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); MS (NYSE) (95%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



266 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2445 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs Expected to Name Fewer Partners | As Goldman Sachs shrinks, its elite inner circle will also be getting smaller. The Wall Street firm is expected to name fewer than 100 new partners this fall, one of the smallest classes in recent years, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak on the record.
In an effort to reward its top consistent producers, Goldman spends months vetting potential partners every two years. Those selected are typically rewarded lavishly and have an inside track to top jobs at the firm. In 2010, 110 new partners were named.
But this year Goldman will be more selective. The firm has cut its head count over the last year by more than 8 percent, to 32,400 employees, to cope with reduced revenue amid difficult markets and new regulations. Just last week Goldman laid off 50 employees, some of them highly paid managing directors.
The size of the partnership typically shrinks in concert with the size of the staff, which means that the new members may be as few as or even fewer than those in the class of 2008, when just 94 new partners were named during the height of the financial crisis.
DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Spain Pulls Off a Bond Auction | Amid stronger-than-expected demand on Thursday, the Spanish Treasury sold about 2.1 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of bonds, with a yield below the 6.12 percent at which the existing 10-year debt was trading before the auction, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Judge Denies Request to Delay Chesapeake's Annual Meeting | Shareholders had sought extra time before the annual meeting to receive more information about the unusual compensation plan of Aubrey K. McClendon, the chief executive, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Meet Ponzify, the Next Hot Tech I.P.O. | Facebook is so last month. The new hot thing in Silicon Valley is apparently Ponzify, writes John Flowers of McSweeney's. In his satirical take on a prospectus, Mr. Flowers pokes fun at the recent string of technology I.P.O.'s, with plenty of jabs for Facebook, Groupon and Zynga. "Our primary measurement of revenue is a non-GAAP accounting principle known as Adjusted Consolidated Assumed Income (ACAI)," Mr. Flowers writes. DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Chinese Companies on an Overseas Shopping Spree | Foreign acquisitions by Chinese companies more than doubled in the first quarter, with South America and Europe being the main targets and most money going into deals in the resources and energy sectors. DealBook 
Kenneth Cole's Board Approves Management Buyout | The board of Kenneth Cole Productions said on Wednesday that it had accepted a takeover offer by the shoe and clothing maker's founder of $15.25 a share, or about $279 million. DealBook 
Panasonic Says Not Planning an Olympus Investment | Panasonic's president denied a report by the Kyodo News agency that the company was planning to provide Olympus with up to 50 billion yen ($630 million), Reuters reports. REUTERS
Glencore Wins Approval for Takeover of Viterra | Australia's competition regulator approved Glencore's roughly $6.2 billion acquisition of Viterra, the largest Canadian grain handler, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Vodafone and Telefonica to Set Up Joint Venture | The two companies are planning to combine parts of their mobile phone networks in Britain, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Exxon Invests in an Australian Gas Venture | Exxon Mobil is taking a 10 percent stake in a joint venture with Ignite Energy Resources to explore for methane gas occurring in Australian coal sites, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Lee Enterprises Surges on Berkshire News | Shares of the newspaper publisher Lee Enterprises rose nearly 16 percent on Wednesday after Berkshire Hathaway disclosed it had taken a stake in the company, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Oracle Announces New Cloud Services | Larry Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, the software giant that recently has been buying up companies with social and cloud technology, said the development of a new suite of cloud-based services relied on acquisitions, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Isbank of Turkey Looks to Buy HSBC Branches | An executive of Isbank said the lender had been mandated by the Pakistan Central Bank to buy HSBC's branches in Pakistan, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Does I.S.S. Have Too Much Influence? | The advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services has prompted grumblings among British board members, The Financial Times writes. FINANCIAL TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Spain Bargains With Europe Over Bank Bailout | The New York Times reports: "Spain, the euro zone's fourth-largest economy, is too big to fail and possibly too big to steamroll, changing the balance of power in negotiations over a bailout. Political leaders in Madrid are insisting that emergency aid to their banks avoid the stigma in capital markets that has hobbled countries like Greece, Portugal and Ireland after accepting tough rescue terms. They are also fighting to slow the pace of austerity and economic change that have pushed those smaller countries into deeper recessions." NEW YORK TIMES
Morgan Stanley Said to Weigh Options for Commodities Unit | Morgan Stanley has had talks with private equity firms including the Blackstone Group as it assesses possible options for its commodities division, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the discussions. One of these people told Bloomberg that the firm currently had no plans to sell the business or a minority stake in it. BLOOMBERG NEWS
For Morgan Stanley, Stronger Capital Isn't Enough | Morgan Stanley has the highest capital ratio of the five biggest United States investment banks, according to a common measure of capital. But the firm faces skepticism from investors and the prospect of a potential downgrade by Moody's, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
JPMorgan Media Banker Takes Private Equity Position | Harry Hampson, the JPMorgan Chase banker who last year worked on the sale of the Shine Group to News Corporation, will lead the group at the bank that advises private equity firms for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Reuters reports, citing an internal memorandum. REUTERS
Energy Boutique Rebuilds a Former Team | Strategic Energy Advisors, an investment bank based in Denver, is hiring former employees of Petrie Parkman & Company, which later became part of Bank of America, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fund Manager Takes a Contrarian Approach | Michael Aronstein, a portfolio manager at Marketfield Asset Management who has delivered a 9.2 percent annualized return since August 2007, told Bloomberg News he was "very concerned about the emerging markets and the commodity complex." bloomberg news
PRIVATE EQUITY 
China Sovereign Wealth Fund Pulls Back From Europe | The chairman of the China Investment Corporation, Lou Jiwei, told The Wall Street Journal that the fund was scaling back its holdings of European stocks and bonds. "There is a risk that the euro zone may fall apart and that risk is rising," he said. wall street journal
Former Goldman Executive Starts a Private Equity Fund | Gene Yoon, who worked in the special situations group of Goldman Sachs, investing the firm's own money, has secured $500 million for a new private equity fund. He told Bloomberg News that his business at Goldman would have been compliant with the Volcker Rule. He continued, "There's not a structural reason why I left or why that business can't continue to succeed at Goldman." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Real Estate Firm Raises a $300 Million Fund | GreenOak Real Estate, run by a team that left Morgan Stanley when the property market crashed, has raised $300 million for a first fund to invest in real estate in the United States, Bloomberg News reports. It is in the process of raising a fund for Japan. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Ariat International in Buyout Deal | Ariat, which makes gear for horseback riding, is being sold to its management and the family that founded the Gap, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person. The company was rumored to be valued at around $350 to $400 million. REUTERS
High Turnover at Apax Partners | The private equity firm Apax Partners has lost more than half of its senior deal makers in the last five years, Reuters reports. This may be a concern to investors as the firm looks to raise a new fund. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Funds Down 2.9 Percent in May | Last month was the worst for the hedge fund industry since September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. John A. Paulson, for instance, oversaw a 13 percent loss in his gold fund, which is now down 23 percent for the year, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Mason Capital Said to Be Looking to Exit Telus Investment | Mason Capital Management has hired the Blackstone Group to handle the sale of its $2 billion stake in Telus, the Canadian telecommunications company, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. In April, the
Deal Professor wrote about the unusual proxy battle going on at Telus. REUTERS
Executive Steps Down From Lampert's Hedge Fund | Edward S. Lampert's hedge fund, ESL Investments, has moved to Miami from Greenwich, Conn., but its president will not be going with the firm, Bloomberg News reports. William C. Crowley, who had been president and chief operating officer of ESL, which controls Sears Holdings, has decided not to relocate, ESL said in a regulatory filing. DealBook 
Man Group's Battered Shares Get a Boost | Citigroup analysts give the stock a buy rating based on valuation and the belief that the worst could be over for the giant hedge fund manager Man Group. DealBook 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Nasdaq Pledges $40 Million to Settle Facebook Claims | The Nasdaq OMX Group plans to set aside up to $40 million to settle disputes by investors over issues caused by technical glitches in Facebook's initial public offering. DealBook 
Pre-I.P.O. Investors in Facebook Got Burned | In March, before Facebook went public, shares of the social network were changing hands at prices as high as $44.10 on the trading platform SharesPost, The Wall Street Journal reports. Shares closed below $27 on Wednesday. wall street journal
TRUenergy of Australia Plans an I.P.O. | TRUenergy, a subsidiary of CLP Holdings of Hong Kong, is aiming to raise about $2.98 billion in a November I.P.O. in Australia, Dow Jones reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Foursquare Plots a New Approach | Once a darling of the New York start-up scene, with big tech companies looking to buy it, Foursquare has lost some of that initial buzz. So on Thursday, the company is announcing a shift in its focus to a recommendation service that could rival sites like Yelp, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Twitter Reports Progress on Mobile Revenue | Twitter's chief executive said that on many days in the last quarter, the company received more advertising revenue from its mobile platform than from its Web site, Reuters reports. REUTERS
As Twitter Matures, a New Bird Emerges | Twitter's chubby blue bird, with its playful tuft of feathers and disproportionately small wings, is out. In its place is a sleeker version with an upturned beak. DealBook 
Lending Club Reaps $15 Million From Kleiner Perkins | The peer-to-peer start-up Lending Club has secured a $15 million investment from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. And Mary Meeker, a former top Internet analyst at Morgan Stanley and now a partner at Kleiner Perkins, will join the board. DealBook 
True Ventures Raises $205 Million Fund | True Ventures, a firm that focuses on early stage venture capital, has closed a new fund, despite continuing challenges in the broader industry. DealBook 
Sports Retail Site Valued at $1.5 Billion | Andreessen Horowitz and Insight Venture Partners have invested $150 million in Fanatics.com, giving the retailer of sports clothing a $1.5 billion valuation, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
 Prosecutors Try to Prove Incentive for Insider Tips | Prosecutors in the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, focused on Galleon Group funds that had been invested in Goldman. DealBook 
Gupta Trial Judge Reprimands Law Student Spectator | Judge Jed S. Rakoff asked a law student attending the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta to stop sending him letters about the case. DealBook 
Regulator Concedes Oversight Lapse in JPMorgan Loss | The comptroller of the currency said JPMorgan Chase's trading loss would most likely influence the final version of the so-called Volcker Rule. DealBook 
Assessing a Case Against MF Global Executives | An analysis of the mismanagement of MF Global provides a damaging look at how the firm was pushed to collapse, but whether prosecutors have enough to pursue criminal charges is a different question, Peter J. Henning writes in White Collar Watch. DealBook 
Federal Reserve Members Say Further Action Not Yet Needed | Three members of the Fed's policy-making committee expressed cautious optimism about the economy on Wednesday, saying recent data did not yet justify an expansion of the central bank's economic aid campaign, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
European Central Bank Leaves Rate Unchanged | Europe's central bank decided on Wednesday to keep its main interest rate at 1 percent, promising to continue offering low-interest loans to banks through at least the end of the year, The New York Times reports. new york times
Prosecutors Recommend a 230-Year Sentence for Stanford | The Justice Department called R. Allen Stanford, who was convicted of running a $7 billion Ponzi scheme, "a ruthless predator responsible for one of the most egregious frauds in history," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Government Expands Investigation of Mortgage Lenders | After government prosecutors reached settlements with four banks over their use of a federally backed mortgage program, the inspector general for the Department of Housing and Urban Development issued subpoenas seeking information from additional firms, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people in the banking industry. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Egan-Jones Seeks to Bring Case to Federal Court | The small ratings firm Egan-Jones sued the Securities and Exchange Commission to try to bring the agency's case against it before a federal judge, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SALES FORCE (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MERGERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); APPAREL MFG (71%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); EURO (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); JUDGES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); GROUPON INC (52%); KENNETH COLE PRODUCTIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (52%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



267 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Bear Stearns Investors Settle Claims for $275 Million

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: A group of Bear Stearns shareholders who claimed to have been hurt by the investment bank's deteriorating health has agreed to settle its claims for $275 million, four years after the firm was sold to JPMorgan Chase. 

 BODY:
A group of Bear Stearns shareholders who claimed to have been hurt by the investment bank's deteriorating health agreed on Wednesday to settle its claims for $275 million, four years after the firm was sold to JPMorgan Chase.
The proposed settlement would cover investors who owned shares in the firm from Dec. 14, 2006, to March 14, 2008, according to a document filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
The pact, which still needs court approval, would end years of litigation between Bear Stearns, former executives of the bank and investors led by representatives of Michigan's state pension funds.
It was a lingering reminder of the collapse of the investment bank, which was rescued only through a government-brokered fire sale to JPMorgan in March 2008.
The former executives named in the suit include James E. Cayne, Bear Stearns' longtime chief executive; Alan D. Schwartz, his successor and the leader who sold the firm to JPMorgan; and Alan C. Greenberg, the investment bank's longtime chairman.
The plaintiff contended that management had masked the firm's failing health over its last year and a half of existence. That period encompasses the collapse of two internal hedge funds because of crumbling mortgage investments, now widely seen as one of the first major manifestations of the financial crisis.
Under the terms of the settlement, the Bear Stearns defendants continue to deny any wrongdoing. At the same time, while the Michigan fund system argued it had a solid case, "it recognizes that there are significant obstacles in the way to recovery."

Proposed Bear Stearns Shareholder Settlement

        
Book Review: Risk Mismanagement
        
Ace Greenberg Really Doesn't Like Jimmy Cayne

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (55%); BOOK REVIEWS (50%) Alan C. Greenberg; Alan Schwartz; Bear Stearns; James E. Cayne; Cayne, James E; Greenberg, Alan C; Schwartz, Alan D; Bear Stearns Cos; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bear Stearns Cos; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: JAMES E CAYNE (90%); JIMMY CAYNE (90%) Cayne, James E; Greenberg, Alan C; Schwartz, Alan D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



268 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Dismissal Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Lotus announced the firing of Dany Bahar, the chief executive who sought to broaden the niche brand's appeal with an ambitious product build-out. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Dany Bahar, the Group Lotus chief executive who sought to add six models to the product line of Lotus Cars, the struggling British sports-car manufacturer, has been fired from his post, according to a statement issued Thursday by Group Lotus. Mr. Bahar was suspended after an investigation began into his conduct in May. The findings of that investigation, which were not made public, prompted his dismissal, Lotus said Thursday. The group immediately announced the appointment of Aslam Farikullah, a senior executive for DRB-Hicom, the parent company of Group Lotus, to lead operations for the company. In a bid to broaden the appeal of Lotus, Mr. Bahar had orchestrated the debuts of six concept cars at the 2010 Paris motor show. (Group Lotus)
 The 2013 Chevrolet Volt is expected by General Motors to deliver 38 miles of range under electric power, up from 35 miles in the current version of the plug-in hybrid. G.M. said Thursday that changes in the chemistry of the Volt's batteries yielded the range gain. The company also expects the Volt to be certified by the E.P.A. at 98 m.p.g.e., an increase of 4 m.p.g.e. over the current car. (General Motors)
 Fisker announced Thursday that its first franchised dealership in the United States would open next month in Scottsdale, Ariz. The showroom will be operated by Penske Automotive Group, a subsidiary of the corporation run by Roger Penske, a motorsports team owner. The group, which owns and operates dealerships throughout the United States, relinquished control of Smart USA to Mercedes-Benz last year. (Fisker Automotive)
 On Wednesday, Lamborghini announced that earthquakes and aftershocks that struck the region of Emila Romagna, Italy, in May damaged supply lines for the hypercar Aventador. Production may be delayed as suppliers relocate and rebuild their facilities. The automaker said its headquarters in Sant'Agata Bolognese did not sustain damage and that production of the Gallardo, which was not dependent on the affected suppliers, was not hindered. (Reuters)
 Nissan said Wednesday its Easy-Fill Tire Alert system would be available as a standard or optional feature on all models it intended to sell in 2013. To prevent overinflation during filling, the system triggers the vehicle's horn when the tires are filled to their optimum pressure level. The horn honks more insistently, Nissan said, if inflation continues beyond the initial warning. (Nissan)
 Sebastian Vettel, the reigning champion in Formula One, will drive the course of the Grand Prix of America next week in New Jersey. The race is tentatively scheduled for the Sunday after the 2013 Montreal Grand Prix. (The 2013 Formula One calendar has not been released.) Vettel, an ambassador for the Infiniti brand, is expected to drive the Infiniti IPL-G coupe around the 3.2-mile street course, which goes from Weehawken to West New York and back. (Infiniti)

        
Wheelies: The Wing and a Prayer Edition
        
Sebatian Vettel Infiniti FX to Enter Limited Production
        
Wheelies: The Trickle-Down Edition
        
Wheelies: The Monza-on-Hudson Edition
        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); SPORTS CARS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); FRANCHISING (77%); CONCEPT CARS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (69%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); AUTO RACING (60%) Aventador; Chevrolet Volt; Dany Bahar; Ferrari 599 GTB Fiorano; Fisker Automotive; Formula One; General Motors; Grand Prix of America; Infiniti; Lamborghini; Lotus; New Jersey; Nissan; penske; Roger Penske; Sebastian Vettel; Tires; Vettel, Sebastian; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Automobili Lamborghini SpA; Group Lotus; Infiniti Division of Nissan Motor Co; Lotus Cars Ltd; Nissan Motor Co; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Industry News; safety; Technology

COMPANY: GROUP LOTUS PLC (92%); FISKER AUTOMOTIVE INC (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Automobili Lamborghini SpA; Formula One; General Motors; Group Lotus; Infiniti Division of Nissan Motor Co; Lotus Cars Ltd; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); PAG (NYSE) (54%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (54%); NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (54%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (54%)

PERSON: ROGER S PENSKE (86%) Vettel, Sebastian

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



269 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: Will There Be a Meaningful Volcker Rule?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Sound arguments about regulating too-big-to-fail financial institutions may lose out to a barrage of advertisements and campaign spending on behalf of Republicans, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
TheDodd-Frank financial reform legislation of 2010 stipulates that banks and the corporate entities that own banks should get out of the business of "proprietary trading." That term refers to investments, often highly risky, that very big banks got into the habit making on their own account, i.e., unrelated to anything that their customers asked them to do.
Such bets have the potential to break a bank, creating either an unacceptable liability for taxpayers or a serious risk to the financial system, or both. They also often put these megabanks in the conflicted position of betting against their customers.
The regulators involved in drawing up the rules to carry out Dodd-Frank include the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Securities and Exchange Commission. They have still not been able to complete the rules, in part because, as with anything to do with modern finance, the details are complex. The draft regulations and explanations run 116 pages in the Federal Register.
The C.F.T.C. held a roundtable on those current draft rules on May 31; I've taken part in many discussions on financial reform in the last four years, and this was one of the best. The commission invited some leading experts on financial reform, individually and collectively with a great deal of practical experience - and skeptical of big banks' ability to manage their risk-taking appropriately.
Yet I remain pessimistic that regulators will adopt a strong final Volcker Rule in the near term, partly because of recent disclosures about the efforts of Senator Scott Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, to blunt the impact of the rule, and what these activities tell us about the November elections.

At one level, the tone and content of the exchange at the roundtable were very encouraging. Sheila Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, led off the discussion with a clear and powerful statement - banks should not be able to use government-guaranteed deposits as a basis for speculation. Any bank with insured deposits receives, in effect, a subsidy - and in return it must behave responsibly.
This set the theme for the day, which broadened to include the various ways in which global megabanks receive subsidies by being too big to fail. When things go well, executives and traders at these banks receive the upside. When they are unlucky - or when their risk management systems break down - and downside risk materializes, it is someone else's problem.
Some of the country's largest banks originally planned to attend the roundtable, but, according to published news reports, they pulled out after JPMorgan Chase's unexpected multibillion-dollar trading losses were disclosed. The elephants were therefore not in the room.
But they were well represented by lawyers appearing on behalf of two industry associations, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. A consulting company, IHS, also discussed a report it had prepared for Morgan Stanley. And there were other organizations present that take the side of American megabanks (as well as Credit Suisse and Barclays, which are Swiss and British, respectively, but which perceive themselves as sharing some of the same interests).
The big banks' wing of the debate displayed a fascinating degree of resistance to the notion that they receive large implicit taxpayer subsidies. They had three main counterarguments.
The first line of reasoning is that the Dodd-Frank financial reforms "ended too-big-to-fail," a patently false assertion about the current situation.
It is true that under Title II of Dodd-Frank, the F.D.I.C. is in charge of preparing ways to liquidate systemically important financial institutions without causing systemwide distress or panic. But this mechanism is not yet in place and, even if it were, substantial technical and political difficulties would remain. (I'm on the F.D.I.C.'s Systemic Resolution Advisory Panel and I support its efforts, but this will be a long slog.)
When pressed, no one in the room seemed to think that JPMorgan Chase or any other behemoth could really fail - implying losses for their creditors - any time soon.
The second counterargument is that we need the biggest American banks at their current scale and scope, because otherwise "liquidity" in markets will dry up (in this context, liquidity refers to the ability of market participants to buy and sell particular securities, preferably without moving the price much).
The notion is that only the megabanks can provide the necessary market-making, particularly in debt and associated derivatives - thus allowing nonfinancial companies to finance themselves and hedge their operational risks.
John Parsons, my colleague at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an expert on derivatives, including their use by nonfinancial companies, pointed out the fundamental flaw in this reasoning. If a market-making activity is truly valuable and big banks are really unable to provide this service because of the Volcker Rule, someone else will step up - and make money through filling a genuine customer need.
This is how markets work. (A blog post by Professor Parsons also demolishes the logic behind the IHS report on this issue.)
Lynn Stout of Cornell University made the important point that liquidity per se is not necessarily a good thing. The road to financial crisis is littered with forms of debt that were considered highly liquid until they weren't - think of Greek sovereign debt or complex American mortgage-backed securities and their derivatives.
Artificially pumping up market liquidity through too-big-to-fail subsidies to market makers is not a good idea.
Along the same lines, allowing big banks to speculate wildly under the guise of hedging their risks is not a good idea. With more details now surfacing about how big risks were taken and mismanaged at JPMorgan Chase, this argument is currently being played down by the industry.
The third argument was the strangest: industry representatives and their allies do not see the subsidies; therefore they do not exist.
Marc Jarsulic of Better Markets pointed out in plain English that the big advantage is in lowering the overall funding costs for bank holding companies. Exactly how sophisticated financial-sector analysts can refuse to comprehend this notion is beyond understanding.
JPMorgan Chase and similar scale organizations can borrow more cheaply because creditors believe there is downside protection provided by some combination of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury.
Yes, I know that the emergency powers of the Federal Reserve were changed - some would say curtailed - by Dodd-Frank. It is no longer so easy to provide support to an individual financial entity, as was done for A.I.G. in September 2008.
But I've also spent a great deal of time discussing the details of this issue in the last two years, with both private-sector and government experts (some at the Fed, others not) - and the simple fact remains that the Fed can devise means of support when needed, more easily to banks but probably to any entity whose imminent collapse is deemed to pose a risk to the financial system.
The markets correctly perceive this to be the case. Any other position you hear from officials is simply a form of denial - and should be seen as a great source of concern.
The credit of the Treasury and the financial firepower of our central bank effectively support the credit of JPMorgan Chase (and the other too-big-to-fail entities). This is what it means to have an implicit government guarantee - a point discussed at the roundtable with Gary Gensler, the C.F.T.C. chairman, during one of his very effective interventions on Thursday.
Over all, the roundtable went about as well as it could for people who want big banks effectively excluded from proprietary trading.
Frankly, however, I don't think executives at big banks will lose much sleep over what happened at the meeting. Their strongest game is not in the public debate but behind closed doors. They will no doubt release another torrent of comment letters, designed to slow the implementation of the Volcker Rule further.
If you are inclined to push the other way, comment letters are still being accepted; I recommend matching the industry in terms of length and details. (A link on the C.F.T.C.'s Web site allows individuals to submit comments on the Volcker Rule until June 22.) Knowledgeable former industry participants could usefully supplement letters by requesting meetings with officials and arguing their points directly; the team at Occupy the S.E.C. has done this ably. Dennis Kelleher's organization, Better Markets, has also been most effective.
The megabank strategy is to delay as much as possible until after the November election, while pouring money into the campaigns of Republicans who would like to roll back the Volcker Rule or even repeal Dodd-Frank entirely.
The Boston Globe reported this week that a senior staff member for Senator Scott Brown has been pushing for a relaxation of crucial Dodd-Frank provisions, particularly with regard to how big banks are allowed to invest in various off-balance-sheet funds. (Remember that Citigroup, for example, largely blew itself up in 2007-8 through such investments.)
In my assessment, as I told The Globe, these recommendations or requests would substantially undermine the effective constraints intended by the Volcker Rule.
Senator Brown continues to present himself as a financial reformer while taking very large contributions from Wall Street (which may well increase after the Globe article). This dissonance may well become the prevailing theme of the November elections.
President Obama missed his chance to reform the financial system by breaking up the largest half-dozen banks - making them small enough and simple enough to fail. On many specific points, he listened to those in the White House and the Treasury who advised him to do relatively little with regard to the megabanks. "Don't do too much" was the theme, particularly during the Senate debate on limiting the scale and scope of our biggest banks.
Now the very big banks and their executives are contributing to Mitt Romney in his campaign against President Obama and are concentrating resources against anyone who wants to reform the financial system (or keep in place what limited reforms we have). The targets include Elizabeth Warren, the Democratic candidate opposing Senator Brown.
This issue will not be decided in a C.F.T.C. conference room, through interagency deliberation or even by the thousands of pages of industry-sponsored comment letters that will drown the regulators.
The outcome for the Volcker Rule will ultimately be decided in an election in which there are no effective constraints on campaign spending by special interests - and the megabanks will outspend everyone.
Candidates who do the bidding of big banks will present themselves as financial reformers and spend a great deal on television advertisements to persuade the electorate that this is so. Watch Senator Brown's campaign closely for details.

        
Paul Volcker vs. the Bank of Canada
        
Opening Up the Fed
        
Investigating JPMorgan Chase
        
Breaking Up Four Big Banks
        
Progress on Letting Big Banks Fail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (95%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FUTURES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); POLITICS (68%) banking; banking regulation; Citigroup; Daily Economist; Dodd-Frank; Elizabeth Warren; JPMorgan Chase; Paul Volcker; politics; Scott Brown; Simon Johnson; too big to fail; Volcker Rule; Brown, Scott P; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Today's Economist

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (71%); SHEILA BAIR (53%) Brown, Scott P

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



270 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Tracker Holds Steady

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: This week's economic data have brought few surprises. The economy has weakened in recent months, but perhaps not as much as last week's jobs report suggested. 

 BODY:
 This week's economic data have brought few surprises, and The New York Times weekly jobs tracker shows no change: Moody's Analytics forecasts average monthly job growth of 157,000 in the six months leading up to Election Day. 
 Economists at Moody's note that the labor market has weakened in recent months, after a surprising burst of hiring during the unusually warm winter. But the economic data since last Friday's disappointing jobs report, including this morning's report on jobless claims, have not been as bad as the jobs report was. Economists still expect job growth to accelerate in June.
The Moody's economists add:
June will be telling. Any weather-related payback has run its course and we should get a clean assessment of the health of the job market in June .
Layoffs are not holding back the labor market, rather its businesses reluctance to hire. Hiring plans in our weekly business confidence survey have weakened but are holding up reasonably well given the volatility in global equity markets and uncertainty surrounding Europe.
Also, U.S. productivity has declined in three of the past five quarters, including the first quarter of this year. Companies have exhausted their workforces and will now need to add more employees in order to keep up with demand. Because businesses have the financial wherewithal to hire, the missing piece is confidence.
The projected pace of hiring suggests a close election between President Obama and Mitt Romney.

        
Jobs Forecast Shifts the Electoral Outlook
        
For Voters, It's the Job-Growth Trend That Counts
        
A Modestly Strong Batch of New Data
        
Jobs and the Election: A Weekly Tracker
        
A Lagging Recovery

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); WEATHER (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%) 2012 election; jobs; Moody's; presidential election; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Moody's Corporation; Moody's Corporation|MCO|NYSE; Jobs and the Election

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Corporation

TICKER: Moody's Corporation; MCO; NYSE

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



271 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Wisconsin, the Next Chapter

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
The battle over Gov. Scott Walker's future in Wisconsin offered a peek at the financial, economic and organizational forces that are shaping the presidential contest between President Obama and Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, Michael D. Shear writes. 
Monica Davey writes that Mr. Walker's political starpowerhas rocketed since he overcame the attempt to recall him, with Republicans already looking at him as a possible future candidate for higher office. But the governor says he's just trying to make it through his term successfully.
The trickle pace of the Obama administration's efforts to sift through backlogs of pending deportations has underwhelmed the immigrant community, Julia Preston reports. While administration officials say their efforts have been hindered by bureaucracy, immigrant groups and some Democrats say the administration just isn't doing enough to help immigrants ensnared in the process -- a failure that risks weakening Mr. Obama and Democrats' support among Latino voters in November.
Accusing American politicians of acting like Europeansis an old refrain. Helene Cooper looks at a new twist: the Obama administration's contention that Republicans keep offering budget proposals just like the austerity policies that are failing in Europe.
Democrats found themselves on the defensive on Wednesday after Republicans quickly trotted out the claim that former President Bill Clinton and Lawrence H. Summers, a former economic adviser to President Obama, supported an extension of all of the Bush-era tax cuts, Jonathan Weisman reports.
Happening in Washington:
Economic data expected today include weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed by weekly mortgage rates at 10.
At 9:30, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. will testify before the House Judiciary Committee. 
At 10, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, will discuss the economy at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee.
Also at 10, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood will introduce a new initiative aimed at curbing distracted driving.
At 10, too, John S. Pistole, the administrator of the Transportation Security Agency, will discuss fixing the agency when he appears before the House Subcommittee on Transportation Security.

        
The Early Word: Paychecks
        
The Early Word: Recall
        
The Weekend Word: Game Changer
        
The Early Word: Mistrial
        
The Early Word: Diplomacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); DEPORTATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (66%); MISTRIAL (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SCOTT WALKER (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); RAY LAHOOD (57%); ERIC HOLDER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



272 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Rick Perry, Back on Stage

BYLINE: MANNY FERNANDEZ


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Rick Perry poked a little fun at his presidential campaign and gave his support to Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
FORT WORTH, Tex. - More than four months after withdrawing from the Republican presidential race, Gov. Rick Perry addressed thousands of conservative Texans on Thursday here at the state Republican Party convention, poking fun at his own gaffe-filled campaign and throwing his support behind his onetime rival Mitt Romney.
Last year, Mr. Perry soared to the top of the polls after announcing he was running for president, but then struggled to keep his early lead after a series of missteps, particularly during the debates. "Oops," he famously uttered during a debate after failing to recall the name of one of the three federal agencies he said would eliminate if elected president.
Though he continues to wield influence in the state, his clout has diminished somewhat, and his fiery 22-minute speech Thursday at the Fort Worth Convention Center's arena - and the standing ovations it inspired - were a sign of Mr. Perry's continuing role as a marquee Texas Republican.
"I personally learned that $20 million may not earn you any delegates," Mr. Perry said, referring to the money his campaign raised last year, "but it'll give you a great tour of this country. I've been asked a number of times -- people said, 'What was it like running for president?' And I tell you, being the presidential front-runner was the most exhilarating three hours of my life."
Mr. Perry cast Texas as an "outlaw state" that has fought against the Obama administration's abortion-rights, environmentalist agenda and that has led the nation in job creation and limited government. He described Texas as "the laboratory for conservative reform" and Fort Worth's Tarrant County as the place where "the voice of the Tea Party is the loudest."
Many of his remarks were focused on President Obama, and amid the applause from the crowd, Mr. Perry seemed for a moment to be on the campaign trail once again. "We need a president who believes in us again," Mr. Perry said. "Three and a half years - nearly 100 rounds of golf, from my count - into this presidency, Barack Obama has exploded the federal debt, he has passed a failed budget-busting stimulus package, he has tried to socialize health care and provided guns to Mexican drug cartels. Admit it, America: 2008 was our national oops moment."
When Mr. Perry said he would support Mr. Romney, there was widespread applause but also a number of boos from the audience.
"For way too long the system has been gamed," Mr. Perry said. "It's been gamed from Wall Street to K Street. Big banks get bailed out and small businesses get shut down. That's not the America I know. We're better than that. And we deserve a president who gets that. And that is exactly the reason I'm going to cast my vote for Mitt Romney as the next president of the United States."
As he did at a prayer rally in Houston last year, Mr. Perry spoke of his Christian faith, telling the crowd that "all that we say and all that we do should be done to the glory of God."
A number of state and national Republican leaders will address the delegates during the three-day convention, including Rick Santorum, Representative Ron Paul of Texas and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. It is the largest Republican state convention in the country.
In Texas, Republicans dominate not only the State Legislature but virtually the entire political culture. No Democrat holds a statewide executive office in Texas. "I bring you greetings from the capital city, where the Democrat-controlled city motto is, 'Keep Austin Weird,' " Mr. Perry said in his speech. "This week in Fort Worth, Texas, we have a different motto. It's 'Keep Texas Republican.' "

        
In Wisconsin, Walker Campaign Reports More Than $13 Million Raised Since January
        
Romney Makes Final Pitch to Illinois Voters
        
Santorum Calls for Investigation of Michigan Republican Party
        
The Early Word: Flow
        
Top Technology Official Leaving the White House

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); CARTELS (50%); JOB CREATION (50%); ABORTION (50%) the caucus; The Caucus

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



273 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says a Deceptive Obama Has Had His Chance

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney debuts a new stump speech and gets an enthusiastic reception. 

 BODY:
When a candidate sets out the Teleprompters, it is a sign he will skip his usual stump speech and reach for more gravitas.
Sure enough, Mitt Romney on Thursday delivered an ode to free enterprise that had the lifting rhetoric and memorable barbs aimed at President Obama that suggested a preview of a convention speech - his summary case for replacing a likable president at a time of widespread economic malaise.
"We have waited and waited and waited for recovery,'' Mr. Romney said here. "And enough time has passed to pronounce judgment on the economic policies of this administration.'' He indicted Mr. Obama's policies and ideology as failures.
"As your president, starting on Day 1, I will do everything in my power to end these days of drift and disappointment,'' he said.
Although Mr. Romney's speech was aimed at seizing on Americans' frustrations with the pace of job creation - the almost certain theme of his fall campaign - it is unclear how much voters will punish the president for the sluggish recovery. A Gallup poll released Friday reported that about as many people judged the news of last week's weak jobs report "mixed" as found it "negative.''
Mr. Romney charged Mr. Obama with deception in portraying the recovery as inexorably making progress. He countered, "I will not be that president of deception and doubt.''
He spoke at a minority-owned business and focused on the role of entrepreneurs in creating jobs. He described free enterprise as just as much a pillar of the United States as its founding political documents.
"Our freedom, what it means to be an American, has been defined and sustained by the liberating power of the free enterprise system,'' Mr. Romney said.
He accused Mr. Obama of undermining free enterprise through expanded government regulations, especially the health care law.
"If Obamacare is allowed to stand, government will reach half of the American economy,'' he said, a claim that fact-checking organizations have often challenged.
Mr. Romney did not roll out any new policies. He hit his usual notes in presenting a recipe for economic success - rescinding the health care law and other regulations on energy and the financial system. He promised lower tax rates.
But he packaged this message with rhetorical flourishes and delivered it in a crisp, heartfelt manner that showcased how he has improved as a public speaker during the long campaign. He drew frequent cheers and a final standing ovation from the partisan crowd.
"These have been years of disappointment and decline, and soon we can put them behind us,'' he said. "We can prosper again, with the powerful recovery we have all been waiting for."
In a response, the Obama campaign said Mr. Romney "offered no new ideas and no new policies.'' A campaign spokeswoman repeated assertions of recent days that Mr. Romney's record of job creation over the four years he was governor of Massachusetts ranked 47th in the nation.
"All that he is proposing is to give budget-busting tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans on the middle class's dimes and let Wall Street write its own rules - the same policies that crashed the economy and devastated the middle class in the first place," said Lis Smith, the spokeswoman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); DEREGULATION (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TRENDS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); INDICTMENTS (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Presidential Election of 2012; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Speeches and Statements; United States Economy; United States; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



274 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: 'You're Likable Enough, Mitt.'

BYLINE: MORRIS P. FIORINA


HIGHLIGHT: Maybe it doesn't matter whether we want to hang out with the president. 

 BODY:
Recent political commentary contrasts Mitt Romney's negative personal image with President Obama's positive one. Polls report that Obama is more "likable" than Romney, and that his "favorable to unfavorable" ratio is more positive. Other things being equal, it is no doubt better for a candidate to be liked than disliked, but when other things are not equal, historical data suggest that a candidate's likability is a relatively minor factor in deciding modern presidential elections.
In the 2000 election Al Gore embarrassed political science election forecasters. Although he narrowly won the popular vote, he badly underperformed historical-informed expectations for elections during periods of peace and prosperity. At a major national convention two months before the election a panel of seven forecasters predicted Gore would win between 53 and 60 percent of the two-party vote. Among the post-mortems a prominent explanation for Gore's negative accomplishment was the personal one: voters simply did not like him. Gore was an arrogant know-it-all who continually reinvented himself, a serial exaggerator, the kind of boy who would remind the teacher that she had forgotten to assign homework. 
In a postelection research report that was published in the British Journal of Political Science nearly a decade ago, Samuel Abrams, Jeremy Pope and I attempted to evaluate that explanation (and others) for Gore's defeat. To do so we turned to the American National Election Studies, which since 1952 have queried Americans about their views of the opposing candidates. Citizens are invited to say anything that might make them vote for the Democrat, then against him, ditto for the Republican. Respondents answer these four questions in their own words (up to five answers are recorded verbatim for each question, but few people offer more than two), and the statements are later coded into categories which by now number more than 700.
We divided the response codes into two broad categories: personal qualities like intelligent/stupid, sincere/insincere, inspiring/dull, and so forth, and everything else, including the candidate's record, policy positions and supporting groups and summed them up into measures of net favorability. So this measure of personal qualities falls somewhere between those most commonly used in today's polling. It is broader than "likability"- logically, one could dislike a candidate one viewed as intelligent, sincere and inspiring, although that seems unlikely. And it is narrower than counts of favorables and unfavorables, which include policy and performance considerations as well as personal qualities.
Our analysis revealed a number of surprises. What journalists and historians wrote about the candidates after the elections was sometimes considerably at odds with what Americans said about the candidates before the elections. For example, in 1952 the public rated Adlai Stevenson slightly higher than Dwight D. Eisenhower on the personal dimension. Eisenhower was viewed as the strong leader who won the war in Europe. "I like Ike" described 1956 better than 1952. Similarly, in 1960 the public rated Richard M. Nixon ever so slightly higher than John F. Kennedy. As one prominent political scientist wrote at the time, "If the eventual account given by the political histories is that Nixon was a weak candidate in 1960, it will be largely myth." Kennedy's charisma developed after the election.
Over all, in the 13 elections between 1952 and 2000, Republican candidates won four of the six in which they had higher personal ratings than the Democrats, while Democratic candidates lost four of the seven elections in which they had higher ratings than the Republicans. Not much evidence of a big likability effect here. In most elections, however, the electorate did not give a large personal edge to either candidate. In four elections they did.
In 1964 the Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson rolled over Barry Goldwater, the second lowest rated Republican on the personal dimension in the thirteen elections. Would a somewhat more likable Republican (Nelson Rockefeller? William Scranton? George Romney?) have done better? Possibly. Better enough to win? Doubtful. Johnson was the highest rated Democrat of the half-century on the record, positions and groups dimension. The 1972 election was the reverse of 1964 with Nixon trampling George S. McGovern, the second lowest rated Democrat in personal terms. But for Nixon, too, the record and positions dimension dominated the personal dimension.
The remaining two elections featured the lowest-rated Republican and Democratic candidates on the personal dimension, and partly as a consequence, the widest disparities between the personal ratings of the two candidates. In both cases the candidate challenged on the personal dimension won. Jimmy Carter's 1980 job approval was flirting with lows established by Harry S. Truman, Nixon and later, George W. Bush, but the electorate rated Carter's personal qualities as the of the Democratic candidates between 1952 and 2000. The same electorate rated Ronald Reagan as the of the Republican candidates. The Ronald Reagan of October 1980 was not the Reagan of "morning again in America" in 1984, let alone the beloved focus of national mourning in 2004. Many Americans saw the 1980 Reagan as uninformed, reckless, and given to gaffes and wild claims. But despite their misgivings about Reagan, and their view that Carter was a peach of a guy personally, voters opted against four more years of Carter.
Finally, the 1996 election supports the 1980 indication that personal qualities matter far less than do national conditions and the experience, record and positions of the candidates. In personal terms Bill Clinton in 1996 was the lowest rated candidate - Democrat or Republican - in the 13 elections. Contrary to popular commentary he was not a "Teflon president" - his checkered personal history was reflected in low personal ratings. But he was the opposite of Carter: his job performance ratings stayed high even while his personal ratings tanked. In 1980 citizens decided to vote out a personally admired president in favor of a risky alternative. In 1996 they opted to retain a president they viewed as personally sleazy but doing a good job. In each case voters put performance and positions above personal qualities. Although our original analysis ended with the 2000 election, I do not believe that the results of the 2004 and 2008 elections affect the findings. George W. Bush v. John Kerry puts me in mind of George Bush v. Michael Dukakis in 1988. As for 2008, with the Republican candidate weighed down by an unpopular war and economic meltdown, any advantage of Barack Obama's persona was icing on the electoral cake. 
Based on the historical evidence I doubt that Romney's likability deficit will play a significant role in the coming election. My (admittedly impressionistic) view is that Romney is in the same ballpark as Nixon or the first President Bush. If Romney loses, it will be because the public believes that Obama has done a good enough job to continue or that Romney has not advanced a credible recovery program. "Voters didn't like my personality" is a loser's excuse.
Oh yes, Gore may be happy to hear that we found no evidence that his underperformance in 2000 reflected his personal unattractiveness. His personal evaluations were slightly negative and lower than Bush's, but well within the historical range. Our analysis indicated that Gore lost because he did not get the normal amount of credit for the good economy, because the electorate perceived him as farther to the left than Clinton, and because - unfairly - he was tarnished by Clinton's personal negatives.

        
There They Go Again
        
It's Almost-Presidents' Day!
        
The Myth of the Businessman-President
        
Romney's School Surprise
        
Believing in Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WRITERS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); HOMEWORK (66%) Adlai Stevenson; Al Gore; Jimmy Carter; John F. Kennedy; likability; Mitt Romney; presidential campaigns; presidential election of 2012; presidential elections; Richard Nixon; Ronald Reagan; Carter, Jimmy; Clinton, Bill; Goldwater, Barry M; Johnson, Lyndon Baines; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Stevenson, Adlai Ewing; Presidential Election of 2012; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); AL GORE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JIMMY CARTER (88%); RICHARD NIXON (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Carter, Jimmy; Clinton, Bill; Goldwater, Barry M; Johnson, Lyndon Baines; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Stevenson, Adlai Ewing

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



275 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Low Interest Rates Crimp Retirement Plans, Survey Finds

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Investor optimism about retirement has fallen, a new survey finds. 

 BODY:
Rising pessimism about the course of the economy, along with low interest rates and increasing health care costs, are squeezing Americans' retirement plans, a new survey finds.
A third of the investors surveyed said low interest rates would cause them to delay retirement. And 45 percent of nonretirees and about a third of retirees said they feared that the low rates might result in them outliving their money in retirement, the survey from Wells Fargo and Gallup found.
And 29 percent of nonretirees surveyed said that rising health care costs had reduced their ability to save for retirement, and about 12 percent said that was a factor in delaying their retirement.
The findings are from the Wells Fargo-Gallup Investor and Retirement Optimism Index, a survey of 1,018 randomly chosen investors that was conducted May 4-12. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for investors over all; four percentage points for nonretirees, and five percentage points for retirees. The study defined an investor as a head of household or a spouse in any household with total savings and investments of $10,000 or more. The sample was made up of 75 percent nonretired investors, and 25 percent retirees. 
More than half of investors said they felt they had "little control" or "no control" in their ability to build and maintain their retirement savings in the current environment.
The results show the challenge that low rates are posing for retirement nest eggs, when core inflation is about 3 percent a year and safe investments like certificates of deposits are yielding less than 1 percent interest, said Karen Wimbish, director of retail retirement at Wells Fargo, in a prepared statement. "The volatility of the market over the past five years has really scared people away from it," she said. But relying on low-interest rate options means they are losing purchasing power.
What impact are low interest rates having on your retirement plans?

        
Younger Investors Jaded About the Stock Market, Survey Finds
        
Singles Less Prepared for Retirement, Survey Shows
        
Lincoln Trust's Enhanced View of Retirement Plan Costs
        
Online Treasury Sales Challenge Elderly Investors
        
Falling Rates for Certificates of Deposit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (89%); TRENDS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%) Investments; Retirement; Savings Accounts; Economic Conditions and Trends; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Savings; United States Economy; Gallup Organization; Wells Fargo & Company; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Gallup Organization; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%) Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



276 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2765 words

HEADLINE: Election Forecast: Obama Begins With Tenuous Advantage

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Introducing the 2012 FiveThirtyEight presidential forecast, which now shows President Obama as a very slight favorite to win re-election. 

 BODY:
The first look at the 2012 FiveThirtyEight presidential forecast has Barack Obama as a very slight favorite to win re-election. But his advantage equates to only a two-point lead in the national popular vote, and the edge could easily swing to Mitt Romney on the basis of further bad economic news.
Mr. Obama remains slightly ahead of Mr. Romney in most national polls, and he has had a somewhat clearer advantage in polling conducted at the state level. Mr. Obama would be about 80 percent likely to win an election held today, according to the model. 
However, the outlook for the Nov. 6 election is much less certain, with Mr. Obama having winning odds of just over 60 percent. The forecast currently calls for Mr. Obama to win roughly 290 electoral votes, but outcomes ranging everywhere from about 160 to 390 electoral votes are plausible, given the long lead time until the election and the amount of news that could occur between now and then. Both polls and economic indicators are a pretty rough guide five months before an election.
The forecast works by running simulations of the Electoral College, which are designed to consider the uncertainty in the outcome at the national level and in individual states. It recognizes that voters in each state could be affected by universal factors - like a rising or falling economic tide - as well as by circumstances particular to each state. Furthermore, it considers the relationships between the states and the ways they might move in tandem with one another. Demographically similar states like Minnesota and Wisconsin, for instance, are more likely to move in the same direction than dissimilar ones like New Hampshire and New Mexico.
Although the model - which is distinct from the electoral map put together by The Times's political desk - relies fairly heavily on polling, it also considers an index of national economic conditions. Right now, the polls and the economy are broadly in agreement with one another - both point toward an extremely tight race - although the economic risks to Mr. Obama are somewhat to the downside.
Still, while the economic indicators suggest that the economy is growing sluggishly - at a below-average pace of about 2 percent growth per year - it is not yet in recession and incumbent presidents often receive the benefit of the doubt from voters. A favorable precedent for Mr. Obama is George W. Bush, who narrowly won re-election in 2004 under similar circumstances.
One of the confusing aspects of this presidential race so far is that national polls have often shown a race that is nearly tied - or Mr. Romney sometimes leading - while Mr. Obama has more often had the lead in polls of crucial battleground states. Sites that project the presidential outcome based on the state polls have thus seemed to show a tangible advantage for Mr. Obama, while those that look at the trend in national polls seem to imply that the race is too close to call.
Any evaluation of the presidential race needs to reconcile this discrepancy. That America is highly divided along partisan lines does not negate the basic mathematical identity that the whole must equal the sum of the parts.
One hypothesis might be that Mr. Obama enjoys some sort of intrinsic edge in the Electoral College - and that, like Mr. Bush in 2000, he could win the Electoral College while losing the nationwide popular vote.
Our analysis suggests, however, that this is not necessarily the case. The model's simulations estimate that there is only about a 2 percent chance that Mr. Obama will win Electoral College while losing the popular vote. Meanwhile, there is only about a 3 percent chance that Mr. Romney will do so. 
Instead, the disparity between state and national polls probably stems from a more banal factor: it likely results from the different types of polling firms that are active in each of these domains.
The polling firms that have dominated the national polls are Gallup and Rasmussen Reports, each of which release national tracking numbers on a daily basis. These firms have had Republican-leaning "house effects" so far, meaning that they show more favorable results for Mr. Romney than the consensus of polls.
Meanwhile, some pollsters that are more active at the state level, like Public Policy Polling and Marist College, have had Democratic-leaning house effects, giving Mr. Obama better results than the consensus does.
When such disparities have arisen in past elections, it has not necessarily been the case that the national polls have provided for a superior prediction. Instead, a more accurate estimate of the national popular vote could sometimes be arrived at by aggregating state polls together. Still, the model assumes that the truth is somewhere in between: the national polls probably underestimate Mr. Obama's standing slightly, while the state polls overestimate it some.
This is not to suggest, however, that Electoral College strategy will have no bearing on the race. If the national margin remains close, the campaigns will have some difficult decisions to make.
The model suggests that the campaigns might do best to concentrate their resources. As much as campaign operatives love to talk about how they are expanding the map, contemplating unusual parlays of states in which they reach 270 electoral votes, the election is very likely to come down to a mere handful of states. In many ways, the relative ordering of the states is more predictable than how the election as a whole will play out.
The term the model uses for these key states is tipping point states, meaning that they could tip the balance between winning and losing in an election that came down to the final vote.
Foremost among these tipping point states are Ohio and Virginia. In 2008, both states had a very slight Republican lean relative to the rest of the country. However, the economy is comparatively good in each state, and Mr. Obama's polling has held up reasonably well in them, putting them almost exactly in balance. Mr. Obama is given just slightly over 50 percent odds of winning each one, just as he is given a very slight overall lead in our national projection. But if Mr. Obama's national standing slips, he would probably lose his lead in those states as well.
In the next tier of states are Colorado, Iowa, Nevada and Pennsylvania. The first three of these states project to be almost as close as Ohio and Virginia, but they are somewhat less important than it because they contain fewer electoral votes. 
Pennsylvania is the reverse case: it is more of a reach for Mr. Romney, but has 20 electoral votes and therefore offers him a huge reward. Even if Mr. Obama were to win states like Virginia and Colorado, it would be nearly impossible for him to win the Electoral College if he lost both Ohio and Pennsylvania along with Florida.
Taken by itself, however, Florida may be a less valuable prize than usual. Right now, the polls there show almost an exact tie. But the model views Florida as leaning toward Mr. Romney, for several reasons.
First, the polls showing a tie there were mostly conducted among registered voters rather than likely voters. Republicans typically improve their standing by a point or two when polling firms switch from registered voter to likely voter polls, probably because Republican voters are older, wealthier, and otherwise have demographic characteristics that make them more reliable bets to turn out. The model anticipates this pattern and adjusts for it, bolstering Mr. Romney's standing by a point or two whenever it evaluates a registered-voter poll.
In addition, the fundamentals somewhat favor Mr. Romney in Florida. The state has been somewhat Republican-leaning in the past, and its economy is quite poor. Mr. Romney has raised more money than Mr. Obama there, and its demographics are not especially strong for Mr. Obama. The model considers these factors in addition to the polls in each state. In the case of Florida, they equate to Mr. Romney having about a 60 or 65 percent chance of winning it, and Mr. Obama probably has easier paths to 270 electoral votes.
Other states that are sometimes considered battlegrounds are even less likely to swing the national outcome. Mr. Obama has only about a 30 percent chance of carrying North Carolina again, according to the model. In the instances where he does, it will most likely come along for the ride only after Mr. Obama has already accumulated enough electoral votes elsewhere to win another term.
Likewise, although Republicans might be tempted to make a play for Wisconsin after winning the gubernatorial recall election there on Tuesday. The model suggests that it is over-hyped as a swing state. Mr. Obama has had a fairly consistent lead in the polls there, including in the exit poll among voters who turned out on Tuesday. Although Mr. Obama is unlikely to win Wisconsin by 14 points, as he did in 2008, all indications from the polls are that the state remains somewhat more favorable to him than the country as a whole, meaning that is not quite at the electoral tipping point and is more like Mr. Romney's equivalent of North Carolina.
If there is an unheralded state that could be in play this year, it might be Oregon. Oregon has been sparsely polled, but the most recent survey found a tight race there, and the state has been extremely competitive in the past - like in 2000 when Al Gore won it by less than a full percentage point. 
Still, all of this could be outweighed by a shift in economic circumstances. 
The model creates an economic index by combining seven frequently updated economic indicators. These factors include the four major economic components that economists often use to date recessions: job growth (as measured by nonfarm payrolls), personal income, industrial production, and consumption. The fifth factor is inflation, as measured by changes in the Consumer Price Index. The sixth and seventh factors are more forward looking: the change in the S&P 500 stock market index, and the consensus forecast of gross domestic product growth over the next two economic quarters, as taken from the median of The Wall Street Journal's monthly forecasting panel.
These variables were chosen because they provide for a broad consensus view of economic conditions, and because they are updated frequently, as opposed to other series, like gross domestic product, that are reported with long lag times. 
It is essential to take a consensus of economic indicators because they often diverge - picking the wrong one could give you a misleading impression about the overall state of the economy and the election. For instance, industrial production has been quite strong, while personal income has been especially weak, and jobs growth has been all over the board in recent months. The consensus of indicators, however, points toward a decidedly below-average but not quite recessionary economy.
This economic index, which is scaled on a similar basis to gross domestic product and now reads at 2.2 percent, exerts a gravitational pull on the forecast. Right now, it suggests that the economy is in a state where the election "should" be very close. If Mr. Obama develops a large lead in the polls - without any underlying improvement in the economic fundamentals - it will therefore adjust his numbers downward. Likewise, if Mr. Romney were to build a clear lead in the polls, it would shave some of that advantage off, unless that came because of a deterioration in economic circumstances.
The model is designed such that this economic gravitational pull becomes less as the election draws nearer - until on Election Day itself, the forecast is based solely on the polls and no longer looks at economic factors. The track record of candidates who have polled strongly in June in defiance of the economic fundamentals is not so great, whereas if the same is true in September or October, it is much more plausible that the election will prove to be an exceptional case.
But the economy will exerts a fair amount of influence on the forecast for the time being. For instance, the poor jobs numbers that were released on Friday would have tangibly worsened Mr. Obama's forecast, while the nearly 300-point stock market rally on Wednesday would have improved it.
In addition to running a forecast of the Nov. 6 outcome, the model also reports a "now-cast," which looks at the same information, and runs the same code, but assumes that the election is held today instead of in November. There may be times at which different candidates lead the forecast and the now-cast. For instance, the model will adjust polls conducted just after the party conventions, which typically produce short-lived "bounces" that soon fall back to earth. A candidate in the midst of a convention bounce might lead the now-cast but trail in the Nov. 6 forecast.
Apart from adding the economic component of the model, and introducing the now-cast, most of the other details of the model are similar to the version we ran in 2008. However, we have tightened the model's logic in some places, particularly in cases where ad hoc assumptions are replaced by more empirically driven guidance from our polling database. 
For instance, we found that "fundamentals" factors at the state level - particularly how it voted in the past two presidential elections - should be given more weight relative to the polls there than we had been assigning them in 2008. This means that in cases where polling in a state is sparse, the fundamentals analysis will tend to dominate. For instance, the model does not give much credence to the idea that Tennessee is close, even though a poll or two have shown it that way, since the volume of polling is not very high and since the fundamentals break sharply against Mr. Obama there. However, once a state gets a number of recent and reliable polls, the model will mostly trust the polling and the fundamentals analysis will matter less.
As was the case in 2008, the model will adjust its forecast in each state even if there are no new polls there, based on the trend it discerns from polls in other states and at the national level. If, for instance, Mr. Obama goes through a period where his numbers have declined in Michigan and Pennsylvania, as well as in his national numbers, it would be nave to conclude that this standing has not also deteriorated in Ohio, even if there are no fresh surveys there.
That said, one should be careful not overreact to new polls or other new information, particularly if they are unrelated to changes in fundamental circumstances of the race like economic conditions. One or two new polls are rarely the basis for a "trend," and often even three, four or five new polls can be deceptive surprisingly often. 
The model is fairly conservative about calculating the trend line at first, requiring a lot of evidence before it shifts the numbers much, but will become much more aggressive in the closing stages of the race. It also considers the fact that some states are inherently more sensitive to the national trend than others.
Any model is a simplification of the real world and requires making choices and assumptions. It therefore introduces the possibility of human error if the choices are the wrong ones. We would never suggest that you should look at our model alone at the expense of any other perspectives on the presidential race.
At the same time, we have thought about each of these choices and assumptions very carefully, and hope to explain them to you in much more detail in a series of posts over the rest of June. They are guided by an empirical outlook on past presidential races, including what we believe may be the world's most comprehensive database of past presidential polls. The choices are also guided by an overall philosophy toward model-building, some of which comes from the investigations I have undertaken about forecasting as part of my upcoming book. In general, our model is fairly simple in the way it projects the national numbers, essentially just relying on two variables ("polls" and "economy"). It gets more detailed in the way it evaluates data at the state level, since the states provide for 50 data points in each past election rather than just one, allowing for more robust analysis.
The model will be updated several times a week at first, and then nearly every day once we reach the summer.

        
Readers See Obama Slightly Ahead, With Ohio Crucial for Romney
        
Where Electoral Forecasts Agree and Disagree
        
The Problems With Forecasting and How to Get Better at It
        
Calculating 'House Effects' of Polling Firms
        
Swing Voters and Elastic States

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%) battleground states; economic index; Electoral College; forecasting models; forecasts; Presidential Election of 2012; swing states; tipping point states; Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



277 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, NATHANIEL POPPER, MARK SCOTT and NEIL GOUGH

 BODY:
LINGERING SUIT SETTLED A group of Bear Stearns shareholders who claimed to have been hurt by the investment bank's deteriorating health agreed on Wednesday to settle its claims for $275 million, four years after the firm was sold to JPMorgan Chase. 
The pact, which still needs court approval, would end years of litigation. Former Bear Stearns executives, including James E. Cayne, left, the chief executive, were named in the suit. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
UNDER FIRE Nasdaq's plan to compensate investors for the flawed debut of Facebook's shares was called ''illegal'' and ''shameless'' at an industry conference in New York on Thursday.
A panel that was supposed to focus on the structure of the stock market was instead dedicated almost entirely to criticizing Nasdaq's plan to pay its members as much as $40 million for losses incurred on Facebook's first day of trading. NATHANIEL POPPER
MOVING ON Charles Dallara, below, the managing director of the Institute of International Finance, announced on Thursday that he was stepping down.
Mr. Dallara, a former JPMorgan Chase banker and official in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, played a central role in the European financial crisis, representing private sector bondholders in negotiations with heavily indebted Greece. MARK SCOTT
INCREASED SPENDING Chinese companies went on an overseas shopping spree in the first three months of the year, with the value of outbound deals rising 118 percent, to $21.4 billion, from the period a year earlier, a study released on Thursday showed.
South America and Europe were the main target regions, with the resources and energy sectors accounting for 92 percent of all foreign deals by Chinese companies in the quarter, according to a survey by A Capital, a private equity fund. NEIL GOUGH
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BONDS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); EURO CRISIS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: JIMMY CAYNE (58%); JAMES E CAYNE (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (51%); RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) CHINA (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (75%); UNITED STATES (70%); EUROPE (67%); GREECE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



278 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: From a Dorm Room Back to My Old Room

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''You Can Go Home Again,'' by Karen L. Fingerman and Frank F. Furstenberg (Op-Ed, May 31): 
I agree that young adults sometimes need, and should receive, parental support. But we should not ''celebrate'' children's moving home after college, since it can encourage dependency.
As someone who entered the job market in the recession of the early 1980s, supporting myself with minimum-wage jobs, I know the power of independence bought at the expense of comfort and certainty.
Furthermore, the writers' belief that parents and their dependent children can be ''best friends'' diminishes the notion of friendship, which at its best is a relationship between equals. I've found that as my two sons -- both in their mid-20s -- have gained their independence, our relationship has shifted. They are now fellow adults, not children.
We are developing an intergenerational friendship much more profound than one based on dependency.
RUTH HENRIQUEZ LYON Duluth, Minn., June 4, 2012
To the Editor:
Karen L. Fingerman and Frank F. Furstenberg argue that it's a healthy sign that so many recent college graduates are returning to their hometowns to live with their parents. They write, ''Although this parental support seems to be a good thing, the new arrangements also rankle many people and violate ideals of autonomy that have long prevailed in this nation.''
There is another American ideal under threat here: mobility, and especially upward mobility. That well-educated young folks are moving in with their well-educated mothers and fathers may not cause the problem that smaller, poorer American cities can't attract college graduates (''A College Gap Leaves Some Cities Behind,'' news article, May 31). But it can't help.
Ms. Fingerman and Mr. Furstenberg write: ''Forty years ago, the news media were filled with reports of a generation gap. Let's be grateful that we've finally solved that problem.'' Today, the reports are about the income gap. I wonder if we have replaced one gap with another.
PAUL S. STATT Philadelphia, May 31, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEREN KATZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DULUTH, MN, USA (74%) MINNESOTA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



279 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Data Hints At Short Hiring Slump

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The number of Americans lining up for new jobless benefits fell last week for the first time since April, providing a hint that a slowdown in hiring last month may only be temporary. 
The data on state unemployment claims, released by the Labor Department on Thursday, takes some of the edge off a report by the government last week that showed job creation slowed sharply in May.
Many economists say they believe that mild weather in the winter led employers to hire more workers then at the expense of spring, but that the weather effect should be short-lived. Some economists suggested the claims data backed that view.
The report ''gives us more confidence that the trend in payrolls is stronger than the May payroll data implied,'' the Swiss bank UBS said in a note to its clients.
Four consecutive months of slowing job creation had fueled speculation that the Federal Reserve Board would ramp up efforts to prop up the American economy. But in Congressional testimony on Thursday, the Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, gave little indication that further monetary stimulus was imminent, even though he said the central bank was ready to shield the economy if financial troubles began to mount.
The Labor Department said initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped by 12,000 to a seasonally adjusted 377,000 last week, matching the median forecast of economists polled by Reuters.
''If the economy were really swooning because of events in Europe, it should be accompanied by a backup in jobless claims,'' said Carl Riccadonna, an economist at Deutsche Bank.
Before last week, claims had risen for four consecutive weeks, adding to concerns about several months of lackluster hiring data. While the United States emerged from a deep recession three years ago, the jobless rate has remained stubbornly high. In May, it edged up to 8.2 percent.
Still, most of the recent increases in new jobless claims were marginal, and the overall level of new aid applications has held at levels consistent with a modest labor market recovery.
Last week's decline in jobless claims was the first drop since the week that ended April 28. The four-week moving average for new claims, a measure of labor market trends, increased by 1,750 last week to 377,750.
A report from the Fed showed American families continued to shed debt in the first quarter. Efforts by households to dig out of a big debt pile have been a persistent headwind for the economy.
Total household debt dropped for the 16th straight quarter, declining at a 0.4 percent annual rate. Mortgage debt, which is the biggest component of consumer debt, fell at a 2.9 percent annual rate, while consumer credit rose by 5.8 percent during the quarter. A separate Fed report pointed to some shakiness in borrowing, with consumer credit expanding in April by the least in six months.
The Fed said household wealth increased by $2.8 trillion during the period, largely because of higher prices in the stock market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lily Zhang spoke to a potential employer at a state-organized job fair in New York on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TRENDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); STATISTICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); PERSONAL DEBT (86%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); WEATHER (76%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TESTIMONY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (83%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (83%); UBS (NYSE) (83%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



280 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Free in the Parks: Sun, Shade and Shakespeare

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
TRY saying the following, and be sure to enunciate clearly, speak loudly enough for a crowd to hear and really hit those T's: ''She thrusts her fists against the posts and still insists she sees the ghosts.''
The actors David Berent and Paulo Quiros chanted this and a few other tongue twisters as they warmed up their voices before a recent rehearsal of Moliere's comedy ''The School for Wives,'' being produced by a small company called Extant Arts. Moments later a plane flew overhead, crystallizing the importance of being in strong and articulate voice when performing outside, as these gentlemen are preparing to do. Directed by Greg Taubman, Extant's artistic director, they were rehearsing at Mineral Springs in Central Park, where the show will run next month. 
''The School for Wives'' is one of many productions, mostly of classical works, that are popping up in city parks and other outdoor locales, as they do each summer. The number of viable -- if challenging -- theater spaces in New York increases significantly in the summer, when inventive theater folk offer free, open-air performances. The granddaddy of them all, of course, is the Public Theater in Central Park, where ''As You Like It,'' part of the 50th-anniversary season of free Shakespeare in the Park at the Delacorte, began preview performances a few days ago.
Another ''As You Like It'' began the very next day in Inwood Hill Park, courtesy of the Moose Hall Theater Company. And on a recent evening more than 200 people followed a cast of about a dozen actors around Central Park just inside the 103rd Street entrance as the New York Classical Theater presented its roving production of ''Twelfth Night.''
New York City's annual unofficial summer season of alfresco freebies, which seems to expand each year, has begun, and during the next couple of months Hamlets, Dromios and other characters will bemoan their fates and rail to the heavens in open-air settings from Crotona Park in the Bronx to Flushing Meadows in Queens to Carroll Park in Brooklyn. Some current and coming productions are listed below. In most cases, you'll want to bring a chair or blanket, and be sure to check individual Web sites for detailed schedules and location-specific information.
INWOOD SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL Moose Hall Theater Company has begun another three-play season at the Inwood Hill Park Peninsula, starting with ''As You Like It'' (through June 23). Donizetti's opera bouffe ''Don Pasquale and His Trophy Wife'' (June 27 to 30), featuring Underworld Productions Opera Ensemble, follows, and then comes ''The Golem, Heart of Light, Mind of Darkness'' (July 18 to Aug. 4), a gothic/horror play based on kabbalah legends, written and directed by Inwood's artistic director, Ted Minos; moosehallisf.org.
NEW YORK CLASSICAL THEATER Wear comfortable shoes: you'll be following the cast from one location to the next as this company applies its signature panoramic theater style to ''Twelfth Night.'' The show is being presented in Central Park, starting just inside the entrance at 103rd Street and Central Park West (through June 24) and in Battery Park, as part of the River to River Festival, starting in front of Castle Clinton (June 26 to July 22); newyorkclassical.org.
SHAKESPEARE IN THE PARK The Public Theater is celebrating its 50th-anniversary season at the Delacorte with ''As You Like It'' (through June 30), featuring original bluegrass music by Steve Martin, and a much-anticipated revival of the Stephen Sondheim-James Lapine fairy tale ''Into the Woods'' (July 23 to Aug. 25), starring Donna Murphy as the Witch, both at the Delacorte Theater (enter at 81st Street and Central Park West or 79th Street and Fifth Avenue); shakespeareinthepark.org.
HUDSON WAREHOUSE This company, which calls itself ''The Other Free Shakespeare in the Park,'' doesn't just do Shakespeare. Its non-Shakespeare offering this summer is Aphra Behn's Restoration comedy ''The Rover'' (July 12 to Aug. 5). The three-show season also includes ''The Comedy of Errors,'' which opens on Friday night (through July 1) and ''Richard III'' (Aug. 9 to Sept. 2), all presented at the North Patio of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument in Riverside Park, Manhattan; hudsonwarehouse.net.
THEATER 2020 The producing artistic director Judith Jarosz calls her young company's offering family-friendly Shakespeare. The show, ''The Comedy of Errors'' (Saturday and Sunday), is being done in 90 minutes by a cast of five men, five women and five puppets. The play ''is presented in a very clear, animated fashion, but all Bard,'' Ms. Jarosz said. Performances are in Brooklyn Bridge Park, part of the Bard at Pier One series; theater2020.com.
EXTANT ARTS After four summers of free Shakespeare, Extant is branching out with a Moliere comedy this year. Performances of ''The School for Wives'' will be in the Music Pagoda in Prospect Park (June 16 to 24) and Mineral Springs in Central Park (July 14 to 22); extantarts.org.
BOOMERANG THEATER COMPANY Idyllic surroundings don't necessarily mean lighthearted works. Boomerang will present ''Hamlet'' (June 23 to July 5) with Zach Calhoon in the title role and the company's artistic director, Tim Errickson, directing. While the company's regular stamping grounds, the bridle path near the park entrance at West 69th Street, is being refurbished, performance will be held instead just inside the entrance at 77th Street and Central Park West; boomerangtheatre.org.
SMITH STREET STAGE Brooklyn-based alumni from New York University, the University of Connecticut and the Yale School of Drama will present ''Twelfth Night'' (June 25 to July 8) in Carroll Park, Brooklyn; smithstreetstage.org.
COMPANY SJ A Beckett piece by two actors in a downtown alley is a less traditional -- and less pastoral -- take on the free summer theater concept. Part of the River to River Festival, Company SJ's production of ''Act Without Words II'' (June 26 to 29), performed on a cobblestone alley between Nassau and Centre Streets, comes to New York after being seen in Ireland and London since 2009; rivertorivernyc.com.
PULSE ENSEMBLE THEATER One of the most popular summertime titles, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' (July 2 to 22), heads to Harlem in Pulse's annual summer Shakespeare project. Performances of the up-to-the-minute interpretation, which incorporates themes of gay marriage, unemployment and other contemporary issues -- without changing the text -- will be at the amphitheater at Riverbank State Park, 145th Street and Riverside Drive, Harlem; pulseensembletheatre.org.
PIPER THEATER You have to believe they are magic; after all, the folks at Piper are most likely the only ones with a cast working outdoors on roller skates this summer. ''Xanadu'' (July 5 to 20), with a book by Douglas Carter Beane and music and lyrics by Jeff Lynne and John Farrar, will be at the Old Stone House in Park Slope, Brooklyn; pipertheatre.org.
SHAKESPEARE IN THE PARKING LOT Most companies performing outdoors choose idyllic surroundings, but not the Drilling Company; it can hardly get more urban than a municipal parking lot at Ludlow and Broome Streets on the Lower East Side. Head there for ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'' (July 12 to 28) and ''Coriolanus'' (Aug. 2 to 18); shakespeareintheparkinglot.com.
SUMMERSTAGE A mash-up of ''Hamlet'' and Pearl Jam's rock album ''Ten'' (with songs including ''Jeremy'' and ''Even Flow''), the theatrical concert-style event ''A King of Infinite Space'' (July 13 and 14) sounds intriguing. The show sets this Shakespeare revenge tragedy on the Lower East Side but the performance will actually take place in the Bronx, at Crotona Park, as part of the annual City Parks Foundation SummerStage series of free performances; cityparksfoundation.org/summerstage.
HIP TO HIP THEATER COMPANY Flushing Meadows, Fort Totten, Gantry Plaza. ... This Queens company continues to expand, planning performances in 10 parks in that borough, with ''Hamlet'' and ''The Comedy of Errors'' running in repertory (July 25 to Aug. 18); hiptohip.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Central Park: From left, Susannah Flood, Lily Rabe and Renee Elise Goldsberry in ''As You Like It,'' for the 50th anniversary of Shakespeare in the Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mineral Springs in Central Park: Tyler Kent in Extant Arts' ''Much Ado About Nothing'' last summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLEN B. WRIGHT)
Inwood Hill Park: From left, Katie Stults, Lilly Wilton and Keldrick Crowder in the Moose Hall Theater Company's version of ''As You Like It.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED MINOS)
 A parking lot: Alessandro Colla standing over McKey Carpenter in the Drilling Company's ''Hamlet'' last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE WEXLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); OPERA (88%); FESTIVALS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



281 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Ally in Fighting Unions Got Labor's Financial Support

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Backed with millions of dollars in contributions from business, the Committee to Save New York has been Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's most important ally in his battles with public-sector unions over government spending, pensions and teacher accountability.
But the committee turns out to have another source of money: a group of building trade unions who contributed $500,000 last year. Their decision to back Mr. Cuomo -- and help finance an offensive against their public-sector brethren -- illuminates a deepening fissure in the labor movement.
Labor officials said the union contributions to the business group in 2011, which were revealed in records filed with the federal Labor Department and interviews with people familiar with the donations, reflected workers' deep unease about a slowdown in the construction industry in New York and their hope that Mr. Cuomo and the business committee could persuade voters and lawmakers to support publicly financed building projects and encourage growth.
But the unions' aid to the business coalition also shows how battles over government spending, especially at the state level, have deepened longstanding tensions in the labor movement between union members employed by government and those employed by private business. 
Public unions are the focus of intense attacks from Republicans, including the wealthy conservative donors whose millions of dollars helped Gov. Scott Walker defeat a labor-backed recall effort in Wisconsin this week. But as states struggle with declining tax revenues, and as gridlock in Washington leaves little prospect for additional federal aid to states, the alliance among Mr. Cuomo, the Committee to Save New York and the private unions reflects a new level of complexity to labor's plight. Even as unions face off against Republican opponents, they are also often at war with a prominent Democratic governor, who has conquered Albany in part by dividing labor in the country's most unionized state.
''I think that any efforts to split the labor movement, whether it's Democrats or Republicans, are unwelcome and not helpful to long-run stability in the state,'' said Michael Podhorzer, the political director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''I think that 'exploit' is the right word,'' he added. ''You could see in the Walker recall that the labor movement remained very unified.''
The unions contributing to the Committee to Save New York included the Mason Tenders' District Council, which oversees local laborers' unions in New York City, as well as affiliates of the Laborers Eastern Region, an organization of laborers unions in New York City, New Jersey and Delaware. Gary LaBarbera, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, sits on the committee's advisory board.
The council joined ''because we believed it was important to support the governor's agenda of bringing fiscal responsibility to New York and attracting private investment and job creation to our state,'' said Paul Fernandes, a spokesman for Mr. LaBarbera.
''It should come as no surprise,'' he continued, ''that we would want to work with other civic and business leaders to support efforts to get our state on sound fiscal and economic footing.''
One labor official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the unions' decision, said that unlike public workers, union members in the building trades -- electricians, construction workers and plumbers -- could not qualify for benefits unless there was private sector work to be had.
''We don't have pension funds if our members are not working,'' the official said. ''We don't have health insurance if our workers are not working.''
The construction unions are closely aligned with the real estate industry, which is a major source of donations for the committee and Mr. Cuomo. The committee, which raised $17 million last year, also received $2.4 million from gambling interests, including Genting, a company seeking to build a major casino in New York.
''Our leadership has had long relationships with building trades for many, many years,'' said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the committee. ''And that is fully consistent with the mission of the Committee to Save New York.''
Mr. Cuomo's ties to the laborers' union are deep. Maggie Moran, while working as a top official at the regional union, was a senior adviser to his 2010 campaign. She remained an executive at the laborers' union until January, during the period when the unions made their contributions to the Committee to Save New York. Ms. Moran declined to comment on Thursday.
While some unions, including the Civil Service Employees Association, withheld their endorsement of Mr. Cuomo, the Mason Tenders and other trade unions delivered foot soldiers on Election Day. When Mr. Cuomo gave his victory speech on Election Day in 2010, he thanked Ms. Moran and the laborers by name.
Mr. Cuomo has adopted a tough posture, rhetorically and legislatively, toward unions, but has also sought to work with them. Unlike Mr. Walker, in Wisconsin, Mr. Cuomo did not seek to strip public unions of their collective bargaining rights.
''Our philosophy is that it's not a question of labor or business interests,'' said Richard Bamberger, a Cuomo spokesman. ''It's both or neither.''
Last summer, Mr. Cuomo demanded that New York's public sector unions, including the largest, the Civil Service Employees Association, accept major wage and benefit concessions as part of a deal to rein in state spending, and he warned of sweeping layoffs if they refused.
In February, Mr. Cuomo used the threat of his emergency budget power to force teachers' unions to accept a more rigorous system of classroom evaluations. And in March, backed by millions of dollars in advertising from the Committee to Save New York, Mr. Cuomo persuaded lawmakers to cut pensions for future public employees in New York City and across the state, prompting unhappy unions to boycott an annual conference of black and Latino lawmakers.
A person with knowledge of the committee's deliberations said Mr. LaBarbera had sought to scale back more aggressive advertising attacks that had been under consideration.
Even as Mr. Cuomo and the committee pushed for concessions from public sector unions, they have promoted public works proposals that would benefit members of the construction unions, including significant spending on economic development and infrastructure projects.
In March, Mr. Cuomo announced an agreement on the centerpiece of his jobs program: the New York Works Task Force, with a mandate to raise and invest billions of dollars to rebuild the state's roads, bridges and parks, and create tens of thousands of jobs. Both union leaders and the Committee to Save New York praised the infrastructure spending.
''It's worked,'' Mr. McKeon said of the committee's efforts. ''The New York Works program is a success.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%); SCOTT WALKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



282 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Japan Relives Gas Attack After Suspect Is Arrested

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
SAGAMIHARA, Japan -- For two years, the woman who called herself Chizuko Sakurai lived with her boyfriend in a rundown old barn on the far western edge of Tokyo's sprawl, where tracts of identical suburban homes fade into farms and mountains. She drew little attention, wearing drably colored clothes and no makeup. Neighbors said she avoided eye contact and kept to herself.
So it came as a shock when this thin 40-year-old woman with bobbed hair and sad eyes was revealed to be Naoko Kikuchi, one of the most wanted people in Japan for the role that the authorities say she played in the deadly 1995 poison gas attack on Tokyo subways by the Aum Shinrikyo religious cult. Residents said her arrest here on Sunday was an unwanted reminder of a national trauma that most here would rather forget.
''We thought we'd never hear of these people again, that they had left Japan forever,'' said Kazuko Yamaguchi, 65, one of a dozen local residents gathered at the police cordon around Ms. Kikuchi's hide-out this week. ''We were finally starting to forget about Aum.'' 
Ms. Kikuchi was one of the last two former Aum members still wanted by the police in connection with the attack, which killed 12 commuters and a station worker and sickened thousands more. The police say information gathered during her arrest has put them on the trail of the final fugitive, Katsuya Takahashi, 54, with whom Ms. Kikuchi had kept in contact.
Ms. Kikuchi's arrest has forced many here to relive an episode so bizarre and unsettling that it altered the way Japan sees itself, shattering the nation's postwar myth of a perfectly functioning, harmonious society. It also seemed to herald the beginning of nearly two decades in which this onetime economic superpower has suffered countless trials, including last year's tsunami and nuclear accident.
''We could not believe that this could happen in Japan,'' said Fusakichi Kaneko, 77, a retired public employee who lives across the street from Ms. Kikuchi's hide-out. ''It was shocking in so many ways.''
Long before Al Qaeda's assault on the United States on Sept. 11, the mysterious anthrax attacks that followed and the increased fears of biological or chemical weapons, the subway attack was a sign of the havoc a small group could unleash when armed with a deadly chemical. On the day of the attack, March 20, five cult members used umbrellas with sharpened tips to tear open plastic bags filled with liquid sarin, a World War II-era nerve agent, which evaporated in the crowded commuter trains, leaving victims to die in painful convulsions.
Those responsible later told the police they were trying to inflict maximum casualties on the station at Kasumigaseki, where most of Japan's central ministries are, as a first blow in a colossal battle with the government that they believed would bring the end of the world. The attack -- and the news that the cult had attracted students from Japan's elite universities -- at first caused nationwide hand-wringing about the country's narrow, education-driven path to success, which demands extreme conformity while offering few outlets for individual expression.
But after the capture of the cult's leaders, including its half-blind guru, known as Shoko Asahara, the fear of another attack subsided and the country returned to more immediate worries, most notably the economic malaise that still troubles the country. ''Japan still hasn't come to terms with what happened,'' said Yoshifu Arita, a former journalist who became such an authority on Aum that he later won a seat in Parliament. ''Most Japanese just try to put it out of mind as an extreme act done by extreme individuals.''
Here in Sagamihara, most of Ms. Kikuchi's neighbors remembered her as someone who strove to be normal, waiting quietly for the bus to her job as a caregiver for elderly people.
This week, as details of her life on the run emerged, the public reaction has been less of anger or fear than puzzlement, and even pity.
The biggest question has been how she could have eluded the police for 17 years, in a tightly knit society with enviably little crime, where her photograph was posted at every train station. Most Japanese seemed to excuse the police and conclude that Ms. Kikuchi, who appeared in a newly released photograph as a tired, almost gaunt middle-aged woman, simply looked nothing like the photograph on her wanted posters, which show a grinning, moon-faced woman in her 20s.
But in the end, the police said, she was caught after someone recognized her and tipped off the police to claim the roughly $125,000 reward.
Prosecutors are investigating whether she and other fugitives benefited from financial or other support from Aum, which to the disbelief of many Japanese, is still allowed to exist, though under police surveillance. The group, which renamed itself Aleph and disavowed the attack, has about 1,500 members.
Many Japanese said they had come to see Ms. Kikuchi -- a former member of Aum's ''health ministry'' who was wanted for gathering the ingredients for sarin -- as an almost tragic figure, someone misguided as a youth who later just wanted to live a normal life.
According to local newspapers, she told the police that she was no longer a believer of Aum's teachings, but did not turn herself in because she had fallen in love with a man outside the cult, Hiroto Takahashi, and did not want to leave him. At the same time, because of her outlaw status, she turned down repeated proposals of marriage from Mr. Takahashi, a carpenter she met in 2006 (and no relation to the last remaining Aum fugitive with the same surname). He stayed with her despite her confession to him.
Mr. Takahashi, 41, was arrested on Sunday, accused of harboring a known fugitive.
On searching their one-room apartment, in the back of the red barn covered with rusted, corrugated steel, the police said they found a photograph of the couple dressed in wedding outfits, apparently pretending in private to make a union they could not complete in public.
Ms. Kikuchi's apparent desire for a second chance reminded some Aum observers of what they say is the continued vulnerability of Japanese youth to cult leaders who fool them with promises of some greater cosmic meaning and an escape from the rigid confines of their lives.
Japanese are still baffled at how Mr. Asahara, whose real name was Chizuo Matsumoto, was able to persuade some of the nation's brightest students to put their faith in him -- and attempt mass murder. He adopted the long hair and white robes of an Indian guru, and claimed he could levitate and read minds.
Hiroyuki Nagaoka, the leader of a group of families trying to get their children out of Aum and its successor, Aleph, said he worried that, without societal soul-searching and change, more young people would fall victim to such men.
''Even if you break up Aleph, another cult will just appear,'' said Mr. Nagaoka, whose son left Aum before the gas attack. ''This is a never-ending battle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Police officers guarding the barn where Ms. Kikuchi, a suspect in the 1995 Tokyo gas attack, was living in Sagamihara. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ITSUO INOUYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Naoko Kikuchi in a photo circulated in 1995, left, and in a police photo taken Monday. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); CULTS & SECTS (88%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (88%); SUBURBS (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); TSUNAMIS (69%); ANTHRAX (65%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (65%); TRAINS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AUM SHINRIKYO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



283 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: A Car Shop Promises: Just the Work You Need

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
A NEW commercial for Jiffy Lube, the oil-change chain, opens on a quiet road, where a mechanic working underneath a car at a repair shop spots a woman driving by in an S.U.V.
The mechanic, who is on a low wheeled platform, or creeper, thrusts himself from under the vehicle into the road, riding in a supine position as if on a luge. When he is about a foot from her rear bumper, he lassos a fan belt around a trailer hitch.
''Some mechanics are just determined to find something to repair,'' says a voice-over, as the motorist hits the brakes at a stoplight, sending the mechanic underneath the car, out the front end, and flying off a pier into a bay. 
''But unlike those guys, we don't fix vehicles, we help keep them running right,'' the voice-over continues. ''At Jiffy Lube, we offer preventive maintenance using vehicle manufacturer recommendations, to help you leave repair shop worries behind.''
The commercial closes with the tagline for the campaign, and a new motto for Jiffy Lube: ''Leave worry behind.''
The campaign, by JWT Atlanta, part of the JWT unit of WPP, will be introduced on Monday. Other commercials also feature shady mechanics pursuing motorists on wheeled repair-shop equipment, including a rolling tool cabinet, and the campaign includes print, online and radio ads.
''Because most people are not proficient in the mechanics of a car, they're worried when they bring their car in for something that a mechanic will find something different that they weren't aware of,'' said Stu Crum, president of Jiffy Lube International. ''There's always that uncertainty: 'Is the work being performed on my car really necessary?' ''
The commercials aim to illustrate that anxiety more than cast aspersions, he said.
''I'm not suggesting that our industry can't be trusted, but we want to put the consumer at ease,'' said Mr. Crum.
Through 2013, Jiffy Lube, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell, will spend an estimated $25 million on the national campaign and another $15 million on local advertising. The brand spent $14.4 million on advertising in 2011, according the Kantar Media unit of WPP.
Ed Washburn opened the first Jiffy Lube in Ogden, Utah, around 1974, representing the start of the quick oil-change industry, according to a 2009 account in The Salt Lake Tribune.
Vehicles typically had been raised on a lift to drain used oil, which was time-consuming. Jiffy Lube instead constructed pits, drove the cars over them and positioned employees below the bays, popping out drain plugs. The company also claims to be the first to affix service reminders on windshields, a small but powerful add-on to keep the brand in front of motorists and keep them coming back.
Fueling Jiffy Lube's growth over the last three decades has been the near disappearance of full-service gas stations, once popular for oil changes, as operators found it more lucrative to operate convenience stores than garages.
The company has grown to about 2,000 locations in the United States and Canada, all franchisee-owned -- but the recession has put some bumps in the road.
As gas prices climb, Americans drive less: a total of 692.3 billion miles in the first three months of 2012, compared with 712.8 billion miles during the same period in 2007, a decrease of 2.9 percent, according to the United States Department of Transportation.
Consumers also delay oil changes to save money. In 2011, 51 percent favored oil changes every 3,000 miles, compared to 59 percent in 2007, according to the NPD Group, a market research company.
At Jiffy Lube today, the average interval between oil changes is about 4,800 miles, compared to 3,000 miles a decade ago, the company reports.
The average age of passenger vehicles reached a record high of 10.8 years in 2011, up from 8.4 years in 1995, according to Polk, an automotive market research firm.
Having older cars on the road is a mixed bag for quick-lube companies. Those motorists prefer to pay for preventive maintenance rather than pay for a new car, but older cars are more apt to end up in repair shops, where an oil change is an easy add-on.
That may be why, in 2011, quick-lube outlets including Jiffy Lube accounted for 26 percent of oil changes, down from 28 percent in 2009, according to NPD. Over the same period, repair shops' share of oil changes grew to 18 percent, from 16 percent, and car dealerships' share to 24 percent, from 23 percent.
A few years ago, Jiffy Lube conducted what it calls ethnographic studies with researchers filming motorists before, during and after oil changes.
Jiffy Lube learned that its traditional greeting was a turnoff for some customers.
Employees used to say, ''Hello, are you interested in receiving Jiffy Lube Signature Service today?'' said Jeffrey Lack, director of brand marketing for Jiffy Lube, referring to the popular package that includes an oil change and extras like topping off windshield fluids and vacuuming.
''We were causing our own anxiety,'' said Mr. Lack, explaining that some customers thought they were being upsold. Now greeters say, ''Hello, welcome to Jiffy Lube,'' he continued. ''My name's Jeff. How can I help you today?''
In renovations completed last year, the company required all franchisees to serve coffee and install a window that looks into the bays so customers can look after their cars. The refurbished locations, like the latest advertising campaign, are meant to show consumers that Jiffy Lube has more to offer than quickness.
''Over time everyone ended up coming to the table with speed and convenient locations,'' said Mr. Lack. ''We had to come up with something that rose above all our competitors and set us apart, and that's an emotional connection we could establish with consumers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Commercials featuring shady mechanics chasing cars hoping to make unnecessary repairs are part of Jiffy Lube's latest ad campaign. The brand wants to separate itself from repair shops that insist on expensive fixes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & LUBE SHOPS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (86%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (63%); JIFFY LUBE INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); JWT (55%); KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (51%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (63%); RDSA (AMS) (63%); RDS.B (NYSE) (63%); RDS.A (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (58%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OGDEN, UT, USA (51%) UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



284 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Pitcher's Video Game Company Goes Bankrupt

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
The video game studio run by the retired baseball star Curt Schilling filed for bankruptcy on Thursday, while Rhode Island and federal officials began investigating the operations of the company, which was buoyed by financial support from the state. 
According to Chapter 7 bankruptcy documents filed in Delaware, Mr. Schilling's company, 38 Studios, and three subsidiaries owe more than $150 million to creditors, but have assets of no more than $50 million.
''After ongoing negotiations with the State of Rhode Island and potential investors and other interested parties, the company has been unable to find a solution to the current stalemate,'' the company said in a statement.
Rhode Island is the company's biggest creditor, with a secured debt of $115.9 million.
Also Thursday, the Rhode Island State Police confirmed opening an inquiry into the company, along with the F.B.I. and the United States attorney's office.
The state lured 38 Studios from Massachusetts in 2010 with the promise of $75 million in loan guarantees. But on May 1, the company missed a scheduled $1.1 million payment to the state and, by the end of the month, had laid off all its employees.
''It seemed to happen quickly,'' said Gov. Lincoln Chafee, who said the state hoped to find investors to purchase the company's assets. ''We're going to do everything possible to maximize the value of our investment.''
The company's failure has led several members of the state's Economic Development Corporation to resign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



285 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Amnesty for Immigrants?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Jorge G. Castaneda and Douglas S. Massey (''Do-It-Yourself Immigration Reform,'' Op-Ed, June 2) argue that we should grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants because illegal immigration from Mexico is down. But this conclusion is flawed. 
First, they claim that Mexican illegal immigration is down because of decreased job opportunities. But this doesn't mean that illegal immigrants won't try to enter once the economy improves.
For this reason, we need to turn off the jobs magnet that encourages illegal immigration. We should expand E-Verify, a Web-based program that quickly identifies illegal immigrants working here and protects jobs for legal workers.
And since the Government Accountability Office has found that only 44 percent of the Southwest border is under the ''operational control'' of the Border Patrol, the border is still not secure and remains an open invitation to more illegal immigration.
Second, while illegal immigration has slightly diminished, it's still a problem. Last year, more than 340,000 people were apprehended trying to enter the country illegally. But it's estimated that there are two to three successful illegal crossings for every one thwarted. That means more than a million illegal immigrants could have entered last year.
Third, not all illegal immigrants are from Mexico. Each year, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants enter the United States from countries other than Mexico, including some countries with strong ties to terrorist organizations like Syria, Iran, Somalia, Nigeria and Pakistan. This means that if we grant amnesty to all illegal immigrants in the United States, it could also include those who wish to do us harm.
Granting amnesty to illegal immigrants is a shortsighted fix that will only encourage more illegal immigration.
LAMAR SMITH Washington, June 6, 2012
The writer, a Republican of Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (95%); AMNESTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SYRIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



286 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Bad News for the Badlands

BYLINE: By EDMUND MORRIS. 
Edmund Morris is the author of the biographies ''The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt,'' ''Theodore Rex'' and ''Colonel Roosevelt.''

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
I HAVE good news and bad news from the Badlands of North Dakota, one of our loveliest and most fragile wildernesses. And even the good news is mostly bad: The National Trust for Historic Preservation announced on Wednesday that Theodore Roosevelt's Elkhorn ranch beside the Little Missouri River, an exquisitely peaceful meadow revered as the cradle of conservation, is one of America's 11 most endangered historic places.
Roosevelt chose it as his Western retreat in 1884, after a personal catastrophe -- the deaths of his young wife and mother, in the same house within hours of each other -- made him give up a brilliant early career in politics and embrace the life of a rancher in what was then Dakota Territory. It was at Elkhorn that he began to observe the degradation of the landscape by unrestricted hunting, grazing and lumbering, and gathered material for his early and most eloquent writings on the subject of humanity's relationship to nature. In 1887, after returning to New York, he founded the Boone and Crockett Club, an association of hunter-conservationists that became a powerful lobbying force in the creation of national parks. 
The log superstructure of his ranch house is long gone, but the foundation stones survive, and the beauty and silence of the spot are undisturbed -- but only for the moment. North Dakota's thundering economic boom (when I was driving across the state last fall, almost all the local radio announcements seemed to be for help wanted) has revived plans to throw a bridge and oil-access highway across the river upstream from the site, now technically known as the Elkhorn Ranch Unit of Theodore Roosevelt National Park. And a prospector armed with mining rights threatens to excavate a gravel pit on a ridge across the river, overlooking Roosevelt's meadow, which park advocates have called ''the Walden Pond of the American West.''
The bad news is that the bridge builders and gravel diggers are not very likely to be stopped. After this month there are no further scheduled hearings for public comment on the damage -- visual and audible and breathable -- that the two projects will inflict upon a landscape so beautifully described by Roosevelt in his autobiography.
''In the long summer afternoons we would sometimes sit on the piazza, when there was no work to be done, for an hour or two at a time, watching the cattle on the sand-bars, and the sharply channeled and strangely carved amphitheater of cliffs across the bottom opposite; while the vultures wheeled overhead, their black shadows gliding across the glaring white of the river-bed,'' he wrote. ''In the winter, in the days of iron cold, when everything was white under the snow, the river lay in its bed fixed and immovable as a bar of bent steel, and then at night wolves and lynxes traveled up and down it as if it had been a highway passing in front of the ranch house.''
Unless Roosevelt's current successor in the White House does something, well, Rooseveltian to protect Elkhorn, an updated version of this description will soon have to include the not-so-far-away rumbling of great trucks full of smelly crude, plus unnatural carvings on the amphitheater rim and a highway slicing east to the Bakken oil wells, by no means convenient for wolves or lynxes. Only the vultures are likely to continue wheeling over the whole landscape.
What do I mean by ''Rooseveltian'' action, assuming President Obama would ever rise to it? Precisely, Roosevelt's oft-repeated, and always well-timed, use of executive power to declare such threatened places sacrosanct. By the time he left office in 1909, he had set aside for protection almost 230 million acres of woodlands, wildlife refuges, waterways and other public lands of aesthetic or historic significance -- and this total does not even include the five national parks he created, with the often reluctant cooperation of Congress.
In February in the Oval Office, Tweed Roosevelt, a great-grandson of the 26th president, urged Mr. Obama to use the Antiquities Act of 1906 to designate 4,400 acres around Elkhorn as a national monument. This would, in one stroke, curtail development of the Little Missouri valley and protect it forever, just as Theodore Roosevelt saved the Grand Canyon in 1908.
Tweed Roosevelt says he got a courteous hearing, but so far there has been no follow-up -- perhaps not surprising, given the extraordinarily complex clash of private, state and federal national rights around Elkhorn, with the National Park Service and the Forest Service, and organizations like the Friends of the Elkhorn Ranch, the Theodore Roosevelt Association and the Boone and Crockett Club, battling the local Billings County commissioners, land developers and oil interests.
One thing that distinguishes a great president is the ability to see through such legalistic thickets and discern the moral daylight beyond. That, and the will to do what is right for future generations of Americans. Our current raging thirst for oil, not to mention private appetites for gravel, will one day abate, either because of depletion or new technologies. Long before that, today's political issues, endlessly droned on the evening news, will become ''dust in a windy street,'' to use one of Roosevelt's favorite metaphors. Unless Mr. Obama acts to preserve at least some threatened parts of our inventory of natural resources, he is not likely to be remembered, as Roosevelt is, as somebody who cared about how future generations live and breathe.
Correction: June 12, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this Op-Ed misstated an achievement of the Boone and Crockett Club, which Roosevelt founded. While the club lobbied for the creation of national parks, Yellowstone was not one of them. (The club lobbied to protect Yellowstone, which was created in 1872, from hunting and vandalism.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); HISTORY (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); LOBBYING (71%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (68%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (64%); MINES & MINING (63%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



287 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1077 words

PERSON: Barry Unsworth 

HEADLINE: Barry Unsworth, Writer of Historical Fiction, Dies at 81

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX; John L. Dorman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Barry Unsworth, considered one of the foremost historical novelists in English, who was known for rich, densely textured fiction that conjured lost worlds -- those of the Trojan War, medieval Europe and the Napoleonic age, among many others -- died on June 4 in Perugia, Italy. He was 81 and had lived in the Umbria region of Italy for many years.
The cause was lung cancer, said Lois Wallace, his literary agent in the United States.
An Englishman, Mr. Unsworth won a Booker Prize in 1992 for ''Sacred Hunger,'' a story of avarice set amid the Atlantic slave trade of the 18th century. The award, now known as the Man Booker Prize, is considered Britain's loftiest literary honor. (Mr. Unsworth shared it that year with Michael Ondaatje, who won for ''The English Patient.'') 
Writing about ''Sacred Hunger'' in The New York Times Book Review this year, the novelist John Vernon said:
''The novel contains a vision of hell on earth unlike any in contemporary fiction, largely because its account of the unimaginable cruelties of the slave trade is told in the well-wrought prose of an old-fashioned 19th-century novel with an omniscient narrator. The effect is uncanny: its intelligent, controlled and immensely readable sentences glow with a deathly pallor.''
Mr. Unsworth's books, characterized by prodigious research and propulsive narrative force, have long been renowned in Britain and have gained a broad international following in the last few decades.
Among his best known -- he wrote 17 novels in all -- are ''Stone Virgin'' (1986), set in Renaissance Venice; ''Losing Nelson'' (1999), about a modern-day writer obsessed with the great British admiral; ''The Songs of the Kings'' (2003), which retells the story of the Trojan War; and, most recently, ''The Quality of Mercy,'' published last year, which continues the narrative of ''Sacred Hunger.''
Mr. Unsworth's work was a prolonged study of morality. To him, as he made plain in interviews, the historical novel offered a wide portal through which to observe human ethical behavior and its myriad failings as played out across any imaginable era.
His books teem with greed. Displaying visible sympathy for people oppressed by those who lust for power, Mr. Unsworth ranged -- sometimes soberly, sometimes humorously -- over a catalog of human depredation, which also included kidnapping (remember Helen of Troy) and murder.
Reviewers occasionally chided Mr. Unsworth for appearing to fall victim to his own exhaustive research. ''Facts sometimes arrive rather awkwardly,'' the novelist Ursula K. Le Guin wrote in the British newspaper The Guardian, in an otherwise favorable review of his 2009 novel, ''Land of Marvels,'' about intrigue in Mesopotamia on the eve of World War I.
Most critics, however, praised Mr. Unsworth's stylish prose, rigorous fealty to detail and ability to evoke entire complex societies. As they also remarked, his books -- with their evocation of mankind's seemingly limitless capacity for immorality -- were also brightly lighted windows onto our own age.
A coal miner's son, Barry Forster Unsworth was born in Wingate, in the north of England, on Aug. 10, 1930. The first in his family to attend college, he earned an undergraduate degree from the University of Manchester, where he studied English, in 1951.
He decided soon afterward to write short stories, but there were difficulties.
''Eudora Welty's 'A Curtain of Green' had an enormous effect on me,'' Mr. Unsworth told The Globe and Mail of Canada in 1995, invoking the author's first story collection, published in 1941. ''But my early attempts to graft stories from the Deep South onto North of England provincialism were not successful. All were rejected.''
He turned to novels, and his first, ''The Partnership,'' was published in 1966. It told the story of two men whose business relationship is destroyed by the erotic attraction of one to the other. Another novel from this period, ''The Hide'' (1970), involved a peeping Tom. Though both novels are set in contemporary England, their fascination with obsession and ruin was a harbinger of Mr. Unsworth's later work.
Over time, Mr. Unsworth fell into the past.
''I don't think it has been so much a choice as a sort of gradual process determined by accidents of circumstance,'' he said in an interview with the online journal Littoral. ''I spent most of the '60s, when I was starting to try to write novels, living and working in Greece and Turkey. These are countries where the ancient past is interfused with the daily present, and I remember being struck with wonder at the constant sense of continuity and connection, the reminders that lie in wait for you at every turn.''
Mr. Unsworth's first marriage, to Valerie Moor, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Aira; three daughters from his first marriage, Madeleine Reiss, Tania Unsworth and Thomasina Unsworth; a brother, Peter; and six grandchildren.
His other novels include two finalists for the Booker, ''Morality Play'' (1995), about a band of strolling actors in 14th-century Yorkshire; and ''Pascali's Island'' (released in the United States in 1980 as ''The Idol Hunter''), set in the early-20th-century Ottoman Empire.
Both books were made into feature films: ''Pascali's Island,'' released in 1988, starred Ben Kingsley and Helen Mirren; ''The Reckoning'' (as ''Morality Play'' was retitled for the screen) was released in 2003 and starred Paul Bettany and Willem Dafoe.
If Mr. Unsworth's novels about the past were veiled allegorical tales about the present, then the veil was largely ripped away, he said, during the Margaret Thatcher era.
In an interview with The Independent of London about ''Sacred Hunger'' in 1992 -- two years after Prime Minister Thatcher left office -- he made the connection explicit.
''As I wrote I began to see more strongly that there were inescapable analogies,'' Mr. Unsworth said. ''You couldn't really live through the '80s without feeling how crass and distasteful some of the economic doctrines were. The slave trade is a perfect model for that kind of total devotion to the profit motive without reckoning the human consequences.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The British novelist Barry Unsworth in 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY BAUER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (93%); WRITERS (92%); HISTORY (90%); LITERATURE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); LITERARY AGENTS (76%); SLAVERY (75%); ETHICS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CANCER (71%); MURDER (70%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (70%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); LUNG CANCER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

TITLE: Sacred Hunger (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



288 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Reagan Was A Keynesian

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
There's no question that America's recovery from the financial crisis has been disappointing. In fact, I've been arguing that the era since 2007 is best viewed as a ''depression,'' an extended period of economic weakness and high unemployment that, like the Great Depression of the 1930s, persists despite episodes during which the economy grows. And Republicans are, of course, trying -- with considerable success -- to turn this dismal state of affairs to their political advantage.
They love, in particular, to contrast President Obama's record with that of Ronald Reagan, who, by this point in his presidency, was indeed presiding over a strong economic recovery. You might think that the more relevant comparison is with George W. Bush, who, at this stage of his administration, was -- unlike Mr. Obama -- still presiding over a large loss in private-sector jobs. And, as I'll explain shortly, the economic slump Reagan faced was very different from our current depression, and much easier to deal with. Still, the Reagan-Obama comparison is revealing in some ways. So let's look at that comparison, shall we? 
For the truth is that on at least one dimension, government spending, there was a large difference between the two presidencies, with total government spending adjusted for inflation and population growth rising much faster under one than under the other. I find it especially instructive to look at spending levels three years into each man's administration -- that is, in the first quarter of 1984 in Reagan's case, and in the first quarter of 2012 in Mr. Obama's -- compared with four years earlier, which in each case more or less corresponds to the start of an economic crisis. Under one president, real per capita government spending at that point was 14.4 percent higher than four years previously; under the other, less than half as much, just 6.4 percent.
O.K., by now many readers have probably figured out the trick here: Reagan, not Obama, was the big spender. While there was a brief burst of government spending early in the Obama administration -- mainly for emergency aid programs like unemployment insurance and food stamps -- that burst is long past. Indeed, at this point, government spending is falling fast, with real per capita spending falling over the past year at a rate not seen since the demobilization that followed the Korean War.
Why was government spending much stronger under Reagan than in the current slump? ''Weaponized Keynesianism'' -- Reagan's big military buildup -- played some role. But the big difference was real per capita spending at the state and local level, which continued to rise under Reagan but has fallen significantly this time around.
And this, in turn, reflects a changed political environment. For one thing, states and local governments used to benefit from revenue-sharing -- automatic aid from the federal government, a program that Reagan eventually killed but only after the slump was past. More important, in the 1980s, anti-tax dogma hadn't taken effect to the same extent it has today, so state and local governments were much more willing than they are now to cover temporary deficits with temporary tax increases, thereby avoiding sharp spending cuts.
In short, if you want to see government responding to economic hard times with the ''tax and spend'' policies conservatives always denounce, you should look to the Reagan era -- not the Obama years.
So does the Reagan-era economic recovery demonstrate the superiority of Keynesian economics? Not exactly. For, as I said, the truth is that the slump of the 1980s -- which was more or less deliberately caused by the Federal Reserve, as a way to bring down inflation -- was very different from our current depression, which was brought on by private-sector excess: above all, the surge in household debt during the Bush years. The Reagan slump could be and was brought to a rapid end when the Fed decided to relent and cut interest rates, sparking a giant housing boom. That option isn't available now because rates are already close to zero.
As many economists have pointed out, America is currently suffering from a classic case of debt deflation: all across the economy people are trying to pay down debt by slashing spending, but, in so doing, they are causing a depression that makes their debt problems even worse. This is exactly the situation in which government spending should temporarily rise to offset the slump in private spending and give the private sector time to repair its finances. Yet that's not happening.
The point, then, is that we'd be in much better shape if we were following Reagan-style Keynesianism. Reagan may have preached small government, but in practice he presided over a lot of spending growth -- and right now that's exactly what America needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); POLITICS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); KOREAN WAR (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



289 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: In Texas, Perry Laughs At His White House Run

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
FORT WORTH, Tex. - More than four months after withdrawing from the Republican presidential race, Gov. Rick Perry addressed thousands of conservative Texans on Thursday here at the state Republican Party convention, poking fun at his own gaffe-filled campaign and throwing his support behind his onetime rival Mitt Romney.
Last year, Mr. Perry soared to the top of the polls after announcing he was running for president, but then struggled to keep his early lead after a series of missteps, particularly during the debates. ''Oops,'' he famously uttered during a debate after failing to recall the name of one of the three federal agencies he said would eliminate if elected president. 
Though he continues to wield influence in the state, his clout has diminished somewhat, and his fiery 22-minute speech Thursday at the Fort Worth Convention Center's arena - and the standing ovations it inspired - were a sign of Mr. Perry's continuing role as a marquee Texas Republican.
''I personally learned that $20 million may not earn you any delegates,'' Mr. Perry said, referring to the money his campaign raised last year, ''but it'll give you a great tour of this country. I've been asked a number of times -- people said, 'What was it like running for president?' And I tell you, being the presidential front-runner was the most exhilarating three hours of my life.''
Mr. Perry cast Texas as an ''outlaw state'' that has fought against the Obama administration's abortion-rights, environmentalist agenda and that has led the nation in job creation and limited government. He described Texas as ''the laboratory of conservative reform'' and Fort Worth's Tarrant County as the place where ''the voice of the Tea Party is the loudest.''
Many of his remarks were focused on President Obama, and amid the applause from the crowd, Mr. Perry seemed for a moment to be on the campaign trail once again. ''We need a president who believes in us again,'' Mr. Perry said. ''Three and a half years - nearly 100 rounds of golf, from my count - into this presidency, Barack Obama has exploded the federal debt, he has passed a failed budget-busting stimulus package, he has tried to socialize health care and provided guns to Mexican drug cartels. Admit it, America: 2008 was our national oops moment.''
When Mr. Perry said he would support Mr. Romney, there was widespread applause but also a number of boos from the audience.
''For way too long the system has been gamed,'' Mr. Perry said. ''It's been gamed from Wall Street to K Street. Big banks get bailed out and small businesses get shut down. That's not the America I know. We're better than that. And we deserve a president who gets that. And that is exactly the reason I'm going to cast my vote for Mitt Romney as the next president of the United States.''
As he did at a prayer rally in Houston last year, Mr. Perry spoke of his Christian faith, telling the crowd that ''all that we say and all that we do should be done to the glory of God.''
A number of state and national Republican leaders will address the delegates during the three-day convention, including Rick Santorum, Representative Ron Paul of Texas and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. It is the largest Republican state convention in the country.
In Texas, Republicans dominate not only the State Legislature but virtually the entire political culture. No Democrat holds a statewide executive office in Texas. ''I bring you greetings from the capital city, where the Democrat-controlled city motto is, 'Keep Austin Weird,' '' Mr. Perry said in his speech. ''This week in Fort Worth, Texas, we have a different motto. It's 'Keep Texas Republican.' ''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); CARTELS (50%); JOB CREATION (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



290 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Grappling Globally With the Economy: Bernanke Offers No Clear Sign Of New Action

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Lackluster jobs data and storm clouds on the economic horizon have not yet convinced Federal Reserve officials that growth is slowing, nor that they should respond, the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Thursday.
Mr. Bernanke and a chorus of other Fed officials have made clear in public appearances over the last week that they are troubled by job growth numbers, the escalating crisis in Europe and the chaotic state of domestic fiscal policy. 
The officials, nearly united earlier this year in the conviction that the Fed had done enough to bolster growth, have been fragmented in their response to the news, with some pressing for the Fed's policy-making committee to act when it meets on June 19 and 20.
Mr. Bernanke said that Fed officials were now updating their economic forecasts ahead of their meeting. If they determine that the pace of job growth is unlikely to rebound, they would discuss whether additional stimulus is warranted.
''That's the essential decision,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''Will there be enough growth going forward to make material progress on the unemployment rate?''
But Mr. Bernanke, who controls the decision-making process, gave little indication on Thursday that he was ready to stick another needle into the economy.
''Economic growth appears poised to continue at a moderate pace over coming quarters, supported in part by accommodative monetary policy,'' Mr. Bernanke told the Congressional Joint Economic Committee, an assessment that on its surface was little changed from his last public remarks on the economy in late April.
Those comments immediately disappointed investors. After opening sharply higher, the Dow Jones industrial average and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave back some gains minutes after Mr. Bernanke's prepared remarks were released publicly. While the Dow closed up 46.17 points, it never regained its morning high, and the S. & P. 500 closed down a fraction.
Mr. Bernanke acknowledged that unemployment remained at an unacceptably high level. And the government estimated that employers added only 69,000 jobs in May, a marked slowdown from the reported pace earlier in the year, and insufficient to reduce unemployment because the number of workers grew more quickly. But other economic data paint a somewhat brighter picture of recent growth, suggesting that the pace of job creation might increase without any additional action by the Fed.
Republicans on the committee pressed repeatedly for Mr. Bernanke to make a clear commitment that the Fed would take no further action to stimulate growth.
''I wish you would look the markets in the eye and say that the Fed has done too much,'' Representative Kevin Brady of Texas told Mr. Bernanke.
Democrats, by contrast, inquired politely after the Fed's plans and showed surprisingly little interest in urging the Fed to expand its efforts.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a New York Democrat, made the nearest approach, calling on the Fed to act forcefully, but she did not ask Mr. Bernanke to commit to such a course of action, nor to explain why he has not done so.
The central bank under Mr. Bernanke has held short-term interest rates near zero since late 2008, and it has said that it plans to maintain that policy until late 2014 at least. It also has purchased more than $2 trillion in Treasury securities and mortgage securities to further reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.
It could try a relatively a modest change in policy, like announcing that it intends to hold short-term rates near zero beyond the end of 2014, or that it will extend an existing effort to reduce longer-term rates by changing the composition of its investment portfolio. Such steps, however, also are likely to have a relatively small economic impact. The most obvious alternative, both more controversial and more powerful, would be to embark on a third expansion of its investment portfolio.
Mr. Bernanke offered the standard affirmation that the Fed ''remains prepared to take action as needed to protect the U.S. financial system and economy.'' He noted that the risk of a European crisis, in particular, had intensified in recent weeks.
But his remarks were notably more cautious than a speech Wednesday night by the Fed's vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, who said the Fed might be justified in taking new action simply as insurance against the looming risks from Europe and elsewhere.
''It may well be appropriate to insure against adverse shocks that could push the economy into territory where a self-reinforcing downward spiral of economic weakness would be difficult to arrest,'' Ms. Yellen said.
Members of the Fed's Board of Governors rarely differ publicly with the chairman on the direction of monetary policy, and it is unclear whether there is a practical difference between the views. Ms. Yellen did not say that the Fed should take additional action.
Several other members of the Fed's policy-making committee have suggested in recent days that they do not see sufficient reason for the Fed to take additional action, in part because the economic outlook is unusually murky.
''Our crystal balls are much cloudier than usual,'' John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said Wednesday.
Mr. Bernanke also resumed his advocacy on Thursday for Congress to take a hand in lifting the economy through a combination of short-term spending and a long-term agreement to reduce the nation's debts.
He said he would be happier ''if Congress would take some of this burden from us.''
The members of the committee, however, showed little sign of bridging the partisan differences that have largely paralyzed Congress. Both sides pressed him for details on what would happen without debt reduction, but Democrats sought his affirmation that the government needed new sources of revenue, while Republicans pursued an endorsement of tax cuts.
Mr. Bernanke humored neither side.
''I hope that Congress will work collaboratively to try to address some of those problems,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke said job growth would shape the Fed's course. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 The Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, urged Congress to ''take some of this burden from us'' when he addressed the Joint Economic Committee on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); CAROLYN MALONEY (59%); KEVIN BRADY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



291 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Romney Raised More Than Obama In May

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Trip Gabriel and Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mitt Romney's presidential campaign shot past President Obama's in fund-raising in May, collecting more than $76.8 million, nearly $17 million more than his Democratic rival.
The Republican success suggests that Mr. Romney is the beneficiary of the usual cash rush from donors who are eager to back the presumptive nominee now that the party has united behind him. The amount raised for Mr. Romney and his party was nearly double what they collected the prior month, and it was disclosed just hours after Mr. Obama's campaign announced Thursday that its joint fund-raising operation with the Democratic National Committee had raised $60 million.
The fund-raising announcements came on a day of dueling speeches from Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama. 
Campaigning in St. Louis, Mr. Romney accused the president of not believing in or understanding America's free enterprise system.
''There is something fundamentally wrong when there are over 23 million Americans who are unemployed, underemployed, or have stopped looking for work, and yet the president tells us he's doing a great job,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I will not be that president of deception and doubt.''
Mr. Obama told students at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, that Congress was holding up the economic recovery by blocking bills like one to keep student loans affordable.
''They haven't acted fast enough,'' Mr. Obama said of the lawmakers. ''We can't afford to have Congress take five months off.'' He added that Congress should act quickly, saying: ''Get it done. This is not complicated.''
''Making college affordable -- that's one of the best things we can do for the economy,'' the president said.
The surge in fund-raising for Mr. Romney in May came as he clinched the delegates necessary to become the Republican nominee -- a green light for Republican donors who might have been on the sidelines throughout the primary process. It also paved the way for the Republican National Committee to link its operations and fund-raising efforts with the Romney campaign.
It is not uncommon for presidential candidates to see a huge spike in contributions after a contentious nominating fight. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts raised twice as much money as President George W. Bush in April 2004 after securing the Democratic nomination.
A statement from Mr. Romney's campaign said the Republican campaign ended May with $107 million in cash.
''It is clear that people aren't willing to buy into 'hope and change' again,'' said Spencer Zwick, Mr. Romney's national finance chairman. ''Voters are making an investment because they believe that it will benefit the country.''
By contrast, Mr. Obama has been raising money from his donor base for the better part of a year. That means that his most enthusiastic donors have probably already given as much as the law allows.
Aides to Mr. Obama said they were not especially worried because they had expected Mr. Romney to have a good fund-raising month. An e-mail from Jim Messina, the campaign manager, to supporters had the subject line: ''We got beat.''
''We knew this moment would come when Romney secured the nomination,'' Mr. Messina wrote. ''More people giving a little bit is the only way to compete with a few people giving a lot.''
But the financial comparisons underscore the concern that Mr. Obama's campaign has expressed to supporters over the last several months about the need for stepped-up financial contributions.
Democrats have warned that despite the president's fund-raising prowess, he could be outspent during the coming months as Mr. Romney's spending is supplemented by historic levels of fund-raising by outside political groups, including ''super PACs.''
Mr. Obama's campaign announced his total on Twitter, saying that the average donation was just over $50. The $60 million fund-raising total includes money raised directly by his campaign and by the Democratic National Committee.
''The campaign raised more than $60 million across committees in May,'' the president said. ''Thanks to everyone who chipped in.''
The campaign and the Democratic committee raised $43.6 million in April, about the same amount as Mitt Romney raised that month.
The announcements by Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney came two days after Republicans succeeded in beating back the recall of Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, who had a big lead over his opponent in campaign cash.
Mr. Obama held a fund-raiser with Hollywood celebrities, including George Clooney, in early May, just after he announced his support for same-sex marriage. The event reportedly raised $15 million.
Democrats had worried whether Mr. Obama's public support for the issue would cost him support in important swing states like Virginia and North Carolina. But the decision was hailed by supporters of Mr. Obama in the gay rights movement, and it appears to have bolstered fund-raising for the president among wealthy members of that group.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney in St. Louis on Thursday. His presidential campaign raised more than $76.8 million last month as Republicans united behind his candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A14)
 President Obama in Las Vegas on Thursday. His campaign reported raising $60 million in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (66%); STUDENT LOANS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



292 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: 9 Swing States Are Main Focus Of an Ad Blitz

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
HENDERSON, Nev. -- The presidential campaigns and their allies are zeroing in mainly on nine swing states, bombarding them with commercials in the earliest concentration of advertising in modern politics.
With so many resources focused on persuading an ever-shrinking pool of swing voters like those here in Nevada, the 2012 election is likely to go down in history as the one in which the most money was spent reaching the fewest people.
Much of the heaviest spending has not been in big cities with large and expensive media markets, but in small and medium-size metropolitan areas in states with little individual weight in the Electoral College: Cedar Rapids and Des Moines in Iowa (6 votes); Colorado Springs and Grand Junction in Colorado (9 votes); Norfolk and Richmond in Virginia (13 votes). Since the beginning of April, four-fifths of the ads that favored or opposed a presidential candidate have been in television markets of modest size.
Nowhere is this more apparent than in southern Nevada, where a costly and contentious fight is playing out for six electoral votes. 
Already, ads about President Obama or Mitt Romney have been run nearly 6,000 times in and around Las Vegas since April 11, more than in any other media market in the country during that period, according to the Kantar Media Campaign Media Analysis Group. And the $5 million spent by both sides during that eight-week stretch translates into the highest rate of spending per electoral vote anywhere by far. Underscoring the state's importance this year, Mr. Obama campaigned in Las Vegas on Thursday; Mr. Romney visited last week for a rally and a fund-raiser.
All this effort is to reach just 1.4 million registered voters, a sign of how tight this election is expected to be. And it points to how the country's growing partisan divide has redrawn the political geography, with fewer states than ever not firmly designated ''red'' or ''blue.''
A study released this week by the Pew Research Center found that the differences between Republicans and Democrats on a wide range of questions -- like whether someone believes in God and what role the government should have in helping the poor -- have never been starker in the 25 years since Pew began the survey.
These divisions play out on television sets across the sprawling desert developments here, where political ads start with the 4 a.m. newscasts. They appear alongside commercials for bankruptcy lawyers and the ''sizzlin' million-dollar giveaway'' at a supermarket chain, reminders of how the economic recovery has skipped over much of Nevada.
In one ad, a minute-long spot from the Karl Rove-backed group Crossroads GPS, a litany of Mr. Obama's ''broken promises'' is punctuated by the sound of shattering glass. Another ad uses a stopwatch to drive home the point that the national debt increases $1.4 million every second. It lays the blame squarely at the president's feet (''borrowing from China for his spending,'' it says) despite sharp deficit growth under George W. Bush.
The Obama campaign's presence is equally strong on the air, and it grew even heavier this week with a new $10 million ad campaign in Nevada and eight other states. The latest ad claims that as governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney had ''one of the worst economic records in the country.''
''It is unusual that so few states are in play from an advertising standpoint,'' said Will Feltus, senior vice president of National Media, which researches and plans advertising placement. He said that the sheer amount of money in play this year is a factor. And because neither candidate is accepting public financing, which would put limits on how his campaign spends, the campaigns can be more strategic about how they advertise. ''I think campaigns this year are marshaling their resources more carefully,'' he said.
Given the volatility of the electorate, the map could easily expand or contract from the current nine -- Colorado, Florida, Iowa, North Carolina, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia -- in the weeks and months ahead. And advertising is only the most tangible sign of which states are competitive. There are other factors like voter registration and organization that play important roles.
But no recent general election advertising strategy has covered so little ground so early. In the spring of 2000, George W. Bush and Al Gore fought an air war in close to 20 states. In early 2004, there were the ''Swing Seventeen.'' And in 2008, the Obama campaign included 18 states in its June advertising offensive, its first of the general election.
In 2012, Nevada offers a clear test case for the economic debates and changing demographics that will determine this election. Nevada has the highest unemployment rate in the country, and one of every 300 homes here is in foreclosure -- more than in any other state.
Hispanics, who voted heavily for Mr. Obama in 2008 and are being aggressively courted by both sides this year, are a sizable constituency. Labor unions, another Democratic ally, are especially powerful here. Mormons, an estimated 10 percent of Nevada's electorate, are expected to turn out heavily for Mr. Romney. And Nevada is also already a showcase for the influential role that outside political groups play in a post-Citizens United world.
Conservative political groups have spent heavily in recent weeks to counter the $20 million advertising blitz that the Obama campaign started last month in nine states. Groups like Crossroads GPS, the Koch brothers-affiliated Americans for Prosperity and the American Future Fund spent $20 million in May in 10 states -- the aforementioned nine plus Michigan.
Since April, conservative groups have had a near-continuous presence on television in battleground states, providing Mr. Romney with cover while his campaign remained off the air. In most states the pattern was the same: one group's ad buy picked up when another's ended. In Colorado, Americans for Prosperity started running commercials just as American Future Fund's ads were ending. Then Crossroads stepped in after Americans for Prosperity's buy wound down. The Romney campaign has advertised in only four states -- Iowa, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia -- for a total of $4.6 million, an ad buyer who monitors spending said. The campaign has not said publicly where or how much it is advertising.
The fall promises to bring wall-to-wall advertising. Already, commercial time in October during N.F.L. and World Series baseball games has been reserved for Congressional campaigns. And the Obama campaign is said to be inquiring about national television ads during the Summer Olympics, according to one person who monitors ad buying.
By November, breaking through the clutter will be difficult. But now, at least, some campaign ads seem to be seeping into voters' minds.
Joni Robison, a homemaker from Las Vegas who said the stream of ads on her television has picked up tremendously, seemed to unintentionally echo the theme of a new anti-Obama ad running on heavy rotation here. The ad features a fictional mother of two whose adult children have moved back home because they were unable to find work. The mother says forlornly that the change Mr. Obama promised has not materialized.
''I have kids, and I don't want to see their future compromised,'' Ms. Robison said as she stood waiting with her daughter and husband for a Romney rally to begin. ''I'm disappointed in some of the promises he made that he wasn't able to keep. I'm disappointed in his performance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''OBAMA'S PROMISE'': A campaign commercial produced by Crossroads GPS, a group backed by Karl Rove, in support of Mitt Romney's candidacy.
''BASKETBALL'': Another anti-Obama television commercial produced by Crossroads GPS, a pro-Romney ''super PAC.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CROSSROADS GPS)
 ''ERNESTO'': This pro-Obama advertisement has been released in the Las Vegas area in an effort to reach Spanish-language markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITIES (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%); GEOGRAPHY (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); LAWYERS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (77%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (72%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (71%) NEVADA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



293 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Obama Criticizes Republicans Over Student Loan Rates

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- After a day of fund-raisers in California, President Obama on Thursday traveled again to swing-state Nevada for the one event of his two-day Western trip that was designated as an official appearance, as opposed to a campaign stop. But it again illustrated that everything is political in an election year.
Mr. Obama campaigned not against Mitt Romney but against Republicans in Congress, saying they ''can't just sit on their hands'' and ignore his job-creation proposals. 
He emphasized the issue of keeping college loans affordable, a topic which resonates with many younger voters whose support Mr. Obama needs for reelection. And he did so at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, before 2,500 mostly young supporters whose energy and chants of ''four more years'' gave the event the feel of a campaign rally.
According to the local newspaper, Mr. Obama's arrival coincided with a new television ad here from his campaign that echoed the president's message. In the ad, Mr. Obama urges Congress to pass the measures he first proposed last September, as part of his job-creation package, to help states pay for keeping teachers and first-responders at work and to finance public infrastructure projects providing jobs for construction workers.
But, he told the university crowd, ''Making college affordable -- that's one of the best things we can do for the economy.''
Mr. Obama sought to spread the word that his administration is speeding a change in a 2009 law that will allow people who remain current on repaying their federal Stafford loans to have their repayments capped at 10 percent of their disposable income, down from 15 percent, so borrowers can more easily manage their debt. The change is to take effect in 2014 but the administration wants the cap effective for new loans after this year. Also, Mr. Obama promoted a new directive to his education and treasury secretaries to ease the process of applying for the repayment option.
But, he told the university crowd, ''the No. 1 thing Congress should do for you is to stop interest rates on student loans from going up.''
The reference was to Mr, Obama's fight with Congress over the interest rate on current Stafford loans. The rate, cut in half to 3.4 percent five years ago to help borrowers as the economy soured, is due to return to 6.8 percent on July 1, affecting more than 7 million student loans. While many Republicans, including Mr. Romney, say they agree that the rate should temporarily remain at the lower level, the parties disagree over how to cover the government's one-year cost of $6 billion.
College debt has exceeded $1 trillion and surpassed total credit-card debt, elevating the issue's political importance, especially at a time when financially strained states are raising tuitions.
Democrats have proposed to offset the cost of subsidizing the lower interest rate by closing a loophole allowing some wealthy taxpayers to avoid Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes by classifying their pay as dividends, not cash income. Republicans first called instead for eliminating a fund for preventive health services in Mr. Obama's health insurance law -- a non-starter for the White House -- but recently sent the president a letter proposing several alternative financing measures.
''And what has the White House done? Nothing. The president has yet to respond,'' the Senate Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, said in a speech on Thursday in advance of Mr. Obama's arrival in Nevada. ''One can only surmise that he's delaying a solution so that he can fit in a few more campaign rallies with college students while pretending someone other than himself is delaying action.''
On Wednesday, the House speaker, John A. Boehner, and the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, called on Mr. Obama to cancel his Las Vegas speech. ''With all of the great economic challenges facing our country, there is no reason to manufacture political fights where there is not policy disagreement,'' they wrote to the president.
Asked about the Republicans' complaints, the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said aboard Air Force One to Nevada, ''We are working with Congress to get this done and we think it will get done.''
Since April Mr. Obama has raised the interest rate issue and criticized Republicans for opposing his version at college campus events in North Carolina, Colorado and Iowa -- all swing states.
Before flying to Nevada, Mr. Obama attended an outdoor breakfast fund-raiser, after two each on Thursday in San Francisco and Los Angeles. About 300 people paid at least $2,500 each to attend the event at a home in a predominantly African-American enclave on a hillside overlooking Los Angeles owned by Charles Quarles, president of the Bedford Group, a real estate development firm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



294 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fade After Fed Does Not Show Its Hand

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
An early rally in stocks faded Thursday afternoon after the Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, gave little indication that the central bank was ready to take immediate further steps to stoke economic growth, which has shown signs of faltering.
A report that Americans cut back sharply on their credit card purchases in April, suggesting consumers were losing confidence in the economy, also took some steam out of the market. 
Bank stocks also lost ground after the Fed said it wanted banks to set aside more money to cushion against unexpected losses, a crucial step in preventing another financial crisis.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been up as much as 140 points, closed up just 46.17 points, or 0.4 percent, at 12,460.96. Other market indexes gave up all their gains and ended the day with slight losses.
''The market is addicted to easy money, and Bernanke has the job of not pulling the trigger unless the situation needs stabilizing,'' said Douglas S. Roberts, chief investment strategist at Channel Capital Research.
Mr. Bernanke told Congress's Joint Economic Committee that the Fed was prepared to act if the economy needed help, but he did not specify any additional steps.
Weaker hiring in May and comments by a Fed regional president had led some investors to hope that the Fed might try something new. The stock market enjoyed its biggest rally of the year on Wednesday.
On Thursday, the early rally in stocks came after China cut its benchmark lending rate for the first time in nearly four years, adding to efforts to reverse a sharp slowdown in economic growth there.
''China is the world's economic locomotive at the moment, and it can't afford to slow down at a time when other major economies are in precarious positions,'' said Matthew P. Kaufler, portfolio manager at Federated Investors.
In the broader stock market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.14 point, to 1,314.99, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 13.70 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,831.02.
Industrial stocks that rely heavily on the Chinese market for sales were among the biggest gainers on the New York Stock Exchange. Caterpillar, which makes heavy equipment, rose 48 cents to $87.14.
The price of gold, which since 2009 has often surged as the Fed took steps to stimulate the economy, fell almost 3 percent after Mr. Bernanke's testimony. Gold declined $46.20 an ounce, the biggest decline since April, to $1,586.60.
Some fears over Europe were allayed on Thursday when Spain raised $2.6 billion from the bond market. The interest rate on the Spanish 10-year note fell to 6.04 percent from 6.26 percent late Wednesday in trading on the secondary market.
In the American bond market, the price of the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 100 31/32, while its yield fell to 1.64 percent, from 1.66 percent late Wednesday.
Among stocks making big moves on Thursday, Pharmacyclics rose $1.96, or 6 percent, to $36.73 after an analyst predicted that the company's experimental lymphoma drug could grow into a blockbuster product.
Molina Healthcare, an insurance company, plunged $7.99, or 31 percent, to $17.77 after it withdrew its 2012 profit forecast, citing a possible revenue shortfall in Texas.
Men's Wearhouse dropped $6.72, or 19 percent, to $28.85 after reporting disappointing financial results and issuing a weak forecast for its second quarter.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



295 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Grappling Globally With the Economy: Exports Weak And Economy Slowing, China Reduces Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Faced with a sharply slowing economy, weak exports and faltering investment, China's central bank unexpectedly announced Thursday that it would cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point.
The action by the People's Bank of China is the strongest measure taken this year by the Chinese government to counteract an economic malaise that has infected Europe and the United States and now seems to be affecting China faster and more extensively than most policy makers or private economists had anticipated.
The interest rate cut is the first by the central bank since December 2008, when policy makers in China were deeply worried they might be behind in responding to an economy slipping downhill faster than expected. Many economists say they believe that China's leaders are behind the curve again this year, after two months of near paralysis on economic policy this spring as the Communist Party wrangled over the fate of one of its own, Bo Xilai.
The National Bureau of Statistics of China is scheduled to release a long list of economic indicators for May on Saturday morning in Beijing, including industrial production and the consumer price index. 
Yu Song, an economist in the Beijing office of Goldman Sachs, said that government policy makers were certain to have those figures already.
The decision to cut interest rates suggests that the Chinese economy performed poorly last month, he wrote in a research note, and that Premier Wen Jiabao personally ordered policy makers to take action.
Spreading economic distress in China is readily apparent these days from the street markets of export-dependent coastal provinces, where factories are closing, to the construction sites of investment-hungry inland provinces, where most developers have switched from three shifts a day to a single shift.
In Qingxi, a town in southeastern China, a wave of bankruptcies among exporters of car stereo components has resulted in mass layoffs with a ripple effect of falling sales at local retailers.
In interviews Thursday morning in Qingxi, a range of business people complained that the economy now was worse than in early 2009, when factories closed and millions of migrant workers lost their jobs during the early stages of the global financial crisis.
''Nobody is spending,'' said Yu Jia, the owner of a general store selling a variety of goods including tofu and laundry detergent. Her sales have fallen by nearly a third since the Lunar New Year in late January, she complained.
Lowering interest rates makes it easier for companies and individuals to borrow money and start spending again. The People's Bank of China announced that the regulated one-year corporate lending rate would drop to 6.31 percent, from 6.56 percent, effective Friday.
In a parallel move that will amplify the practical effect of the rate cut, the central bank also said that commercial banks would be allowed to further reduce the lending rate by a fifth for good customers; the previous discount had been a tenth.
Banks will also pay less interest on deposits, however, which could hurt savers. The one-year deposit rate will drop to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent, the People's Bank of China said on its Web site.
Less than a month ago, the government took another, smaller step to loosen monetary policy by reducing the percentage of assets that commercial banks are required to hold as reserves at the central bank. That step freed up money for banks to lend but did not help borrowers afford loans.
Liu Li-Gang, the chief economist for greater China in the Hong Kong office of ANZ, a big Australian bank, said that the decision by the People's Bank of China to reduce interest rates represented a clear shift in direction, showing that it ''has formally entered into a stage of policy easing from that of a policy fine-tuning.''
China's economic indicators for April were dismal. Exports and imports stalled while investment in fixed assets increased more slowly in the first four months of this year than in any year since 2001.
Retail sales grew at a slower annual pace in April than in any month in the last decade, excluding years when January and February were strongly affected by the Lunar New Year holiday.
A statement posted on the Chinese government's Web site on May 24 cited Zhang Liqun, a senior economist advising the cabinet, as saying that ''the sharp slowdown in the economy has aroused attention from policy makers.''
Cutting interest rates comes as Chinese officials are already speeding up the approval of infrastructure projects and other economic stimulus spending.
The big question now for Chinese policy makers is how much they are willing to ramp up government infrastructure spending and lending by state-owned banks to offset the slowdown. China lent and spent huge amounts in 2009 to limit its downturn to several months and make the fastest recovery of any large economy from the global financial crisis.
But the bill from that binge has since come due. Local governments across the country are straining to maintain payments on heavy debts incurred during the spending spree. Banks are worrying about the extent of the loan write-offs they may need to take.
China's broadly measured money supply grew much faster than that of the United States, leading to steep increases in housing prices through last summer. That led to considerable complaints from the general public that city apartments had become unaffordable, causing the government to pop the housing bubble last summer.
The ensuing housing bust has caused prices to drop as much as 20 percent in some cities, according to real estate brokers. Developers have laid off construction workers in droves across the nation.
Some economists, like Ruchir Sharma, the managing director of emerging-market equities at Morgan Stanley, say that China has reached a level of prosperity at which its pace of growth will inevitably ratchet down from the nearly double-digit annual expansion it has enjoyed for the last three decades.
''Investments and exports will really slow down,'' as Chinese wages have reached a level that erodes the country's competitive advantage, he said in a speech last week in Hong Kong.
Economic output per person in China is approaching $5,000, prompting the World Bank to reclassify the country last summer as an ''upper middle income'' nation instead of a ''lower middle income'' one.
Other economists are more optimistic about China's short-term growth but say that structural changes, like freeing the financial system from bureaucratic controls, are needed for longer-term growth.
Eswar Prasad, a former division chief of the International Monetary Fund, said in an interview in Hong Kong last week that he believed China could still post another year of 8 percent economic growth in 2012, but the question is the composition and long-term sustainability of that growth.
The weaker that China's exports, retail sales and other indicators become, the more likely that China will have to rely again this year on government spending and lending to reach 8 percent, he said.
One mystery is why Chinese policy makers did not respond sooner to signs this spring that their country's economy was starting to weaken.
When Morgan Stanley cut its forecast on May 20 for China's economic growth this year, to 8.5 percent from 9 percent, it mentioned that it had foreseen two months before that the economy needed help and had based its earlier estimate on an expectation of prompt, intensive action by policy makers that did not materialize.
What Morgan Stanley did not mention, and what independent economists tend to be reluctant to discuss, is that the period of inactivity by economic policy makers from mid-March to mid-May roughly matched a time of factional infighting in the Chinese Communist Party. This included the removal of Mr. Bo as the Communist Party secretary of Chongqing and his suspension from the Politburo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Produce markets, like this one in Dongguan, Guangdong Province, report a sharp decline in sales since the Lunar New Year in January. (B1)
Lower interest rates will make it easier for individuals to start spending again for items like meat.
A family examined shoes on Wednesday at a market in Dongguan, Guangdong Province.
 Business people in China have complained that the economy is worse now than in the early stages of the global financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FORBES CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (68%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (68%); DISMISSALS (67%); CORPORATE DEBT (67%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (66%); INTERVIEWS (61%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



296 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Like Bill Clinton in Your Corner?

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As President Obama seeks re-election, he has one advantage that Bill Clinton did not have as president in 1996: a popular Democratic predecessor to vouch for him -- Mr. Clinton. The former president had only Jimmy Carter, who remained a political pariah.
Yet in recent days Mr. Obama has learned -- as Hillary Rodham Clinton did during her race against Mr. Obama for the 2008 Democratic nomination -- that having Bill Clinton as your surrogate carries risks as well as rewards. 
The man considered by Democrats and Republicans as the most skillful politician of his era proudly acts as his own speechwriter and strategist. And when Mr. Clinton is on his game, he is -- as Mr. Obama said during their joint appearance at a Broadway fund-raiser on Monday -- ''as good at breaking down what's at stake at any given moment'' as anyone.
But at that same event, Mr. Clinton himself acknowledged, ''I'm a little rusty at politics.'' And when he hits a wrong note, it is amplified by a 24-7 cable-and-blogosphere megaphone unlike anything Mr. Clinton had to deal with in the 1990s, often drowning out his intended message.
So it was that his effusive praise for Mr. Obama at the three Manhattan fund-raisers on Monday, and his thorough dissection of the presumptive Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, was all but lost amid the attention to Mr. Clinton's off-message words in separate television interviews -- one before Monday's events, the other a day later.
First was Mr. Clinton's comment last week that Mr. Romney had ''a sterling business career'' as a private equity executive, handing the Romney campaign an enduring rebuttal to Mr. Obama's criticism of that career for Mr. Romney's pursuit of investor profits over workers' jobs.
Then on Tuesday Mr. Clinton called for temporarily extending all the tax cuts set to expire at year's end, including the Bush-era rates, if Democrats and Republicans cannot agree on a long-term budget compromise to avert the tax increases and automatic spending cuts that otherwise will result, jolting the economy.
The media made much of Mr. Clinton's apparent break with Mr. Obama, who has vowed, as his press secretary, Jay Carney, reiterated on Wednesday, not to support extending the Bush tax cuts for the richest taxpayers again.
Mr. Clinton's spokesman, Matt McKenna, said later that Mr. Clinton ''does not believe the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans should be extended again,'' and on Thursday Mr. Clinton told CNN he was ''very sorry'' for the remarks. Still, Republicans pounced, characterizing Mr. Clinton's statement as an endorsement of their own position.
The Republican National Committee rushed out a news release under the headline ''Bubba Axes Obama ... Again.''
Some Clinton conspiracy theorists, not in the White House or the Obama campaign, instantly theorized that Mr. Clinton was intentionally rocking the boat for the man who blocked his wife from reclaiming 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue for the couple in 2008, particularly since an Obama defeat in November would fuel persistent speculation about Mrs. Clinton's own plans to make another presidential run.
Yet Mr. Clinton's unscripted comments in 2008 hurt his wife so badly that an Obama strategist, David Plouffe, in his book on the election, wrote that at one point, ''We needed divine intervention. It arrived in the form of Bill Clinton.'' (Mr. Plouffe also wrote that Mr. Clinton sometimes got ''a raw deal'' in the media back then.)
But between the comments on Mr. Romney's career and George W. Bush's tax cuts, Mr. Clinton's performance at the Obama fund-raisers on Monday argued for the value he can bring the president.
Having arrived in office after a recession and exited with an economic boom and balanced budgets -- battling Congressional Republicans throughout -- Mr. Clinton can validate Mr. Obama's record in a way the president cannot, Democrats say. He remains broadly popular among independents. And he opens wallets among longtime Clinton supporters that otherwise would stay closed.
At one stop in New York, Mr. Clinton told donors: ''Remember me? I'm the only guy that gave you four surplus budgets out of the eight I sent.''
When the applause died, he added, ''So I hope what I say to you will have some weight, because I want you to say it to everybody you see between now and November: I don't think it's important to re-elect the president; I think it is essential to re-elect the president.''
Mr. Romney's plan, Mr. Clinton said, ''is to go back to the Bush program, except on steroids,'' a line that Mr. Obama has added to his stump speech, always crediting Mr. Clinton.
At a ''Broadway for Barack'' fund-raiser, Mr. Clinton perhaps better than Mr. Obama accounted for the economy's lingering weakness in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis: ''If you look at history, those things take five or 10 years to get over, and if there's a housing collapse along with it, closer to 10 years. He's on schedule to beat that record.''
And regarding Mr. Obama's health care law, Mr. Clinton offered what one White House aide called a helpful ''first-person testimonial'' of his own experience with Republicans. Mr. Clinton recalled that in his own, failed effort to overhaul health insurance, Republicans proposed instead to mandate that all individuals get coverage, not that employers provide it as Mr. Clinton proposed -- the very individual mandate at the core of the Obama law, and one Republicans have challenged to the Supreme Court.
''Governor Romney's finest act as governor was to sign a bill with the individual mandate in it,'' Mr. Clinton said.
And as Mr. Obama himself suggested on Monday, Mr. Clinton conveys something that Mr. Obama often lacks. ''Whatever the subject,'' Mr. Obama said, when the men speak he is reminded ''just how incredibly passionate'' Mr. Clinton is.
''And,'' Mr. Obama added, ''it's that passion and connection that he has to the American people that is infectious.'' At least Mr. Obama hopes so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Bill Clinton introduced President Obama at a fund-raiser Monday at the New Amsterdam Theater in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (85%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); BUDGETS (66%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (95%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



297 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Baltic Business Cycles, Continued

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What does partial recovery from a slump tell us? 

 BODY:
I noted yesterday that my mild observation that a partial bounceback from a severe slump is not exactly an economic triumph apparently elicited rage in Estonia. Simon Wren-Lewis, writing about Latvia, is more caustic:
An extraordinary success story: after an 18% decline in GDP in 2009, and flat GDP in 2010, we now have 5.5% growth in 2011. But surely I'm being economical with my quotes here. Isn't the 5.5% growth last year just the beginning, with the economy achieving a new dynamism. Mr. Asmussen does not provide any additional evidence on this. Perhaps wisely, as the IMF are predicting 2% growth this year, and 2.5% next year. So the 5.5% growth last year is all we have.
 Mr. Asmussen could have talked about unemployment, which has also fallen rapidly, from a peak of 20% to 15% currently. Perhaps he did not, because unemployment shows more clearly what has actually happened. We have had a huge recession, followed by a much more modest recovery. And, as we might guess, there is apparently much more talk about structural unemployment in Latvia today. For a rather more objective account of the Latvian experience of internal devaluation, see this (US) CEPR study, or a number of Paul Krugman's posts.
Earlier this year I wrote that when growth returned, some would say this proved those pessimistic Keynesians had been all wrong. I must admit the 'some' I had in mind were politicians and journalists, not senior central bankers. By this logic, an even better strategy is to close the whole economy down for a year. The following year we could get fantastic growth as the economy starts up again. 
While I'm at it, let me address another issue. Quite a few people say that it's wrong -- or, as some say, "dishonest" -- to look only at the decline since the peak. After all, didn't the Baltics have very good growth in the years preceding the peak?
Yes, they did. So did America before the Great Depression. Long-run growth and business cycles are different things: long-run growth represents rising economic potential, slumps reflect a shortfall of output below that potential. Since the austerity/stimulus debate is about slumps, not long-run growth, talking about growth before the crisis is just irrelevant.
Anyway, I'm for the Wren-Lewis proposal: let's collapse the economy for a year, so we can have great growth the year following. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); WRITERS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); DEVALUATION (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATVIA (92%); ESTONIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BALTIC STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



298 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: The Structural Obsession

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Quickly becoming a zombie idea. 

 BODY:
The urge to declare our unemployment problem "structural" -- a supply-side problem of some kind, not solvable by the "simplistic Keynesian" notion of just increasing demand -- has been quite something to behold. It's rapidly entering the category of a zombie idea, which just keeps shambling forward no matter how many times it has been killed.
Basically, structural stories come in two variants: geography and skills. The geography story says that workers are in the wrong places; the skill story that they lack the right knowhow. 
At this point both stories have been thoroughly debunked. Unemployment is high almost everywhere.
And via Mark Thoma, the very cautious Dave Altig looks at recent studies and concludes that 
we've been pretty sympathetic to structural explanations for the slow pace of the recovery. Nonetheless, we have yet to find much evidence that problems with skill-mismatch are more important postrecession than they were prerecession. We'll keep looking, but-as our colleagues at the Chicago Fed conclude in their most recent Chicago Fed Letter-so far the facts just don't support skill gaps as the major source of our current labor market woes.
Am I totally certain that the problem isn't structural? Hey, I'm not totally certain of anything! But there really is no evidence, none at all, for a story that nonetheless gets asserted as absolute fact in op-ed after op-ed.
And just think about the fact that this completely unsupported claim about structural unemployment is being used as an argument against doing anything to help millions of unemployed workers find jobs.
Incredible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



299 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Peaks and Valleys on a Small Island

BYLINE: DAVID GONZALEZ


HIGHLIGHT: Though not as well-known as her Farm Security Administration colleagues, Louise Rosskam produced images from Puerto Rico that found the inner strength and dignity of her subjects. 

 BODY:
As socially conscious photographers in the Depression-era United States, Edwin and Louise Rosskam thought they knew the face of need. But their stateside experiences hardly prepared them for what they encountered in Puerto Rico in late 1937.
They had gone to the island on assignment for Life magazine to cover the nationalist movement and its fiery, Harvard-educated leader, Pedro Albizu Campos. This was after the Ponce massacre, in which the police fired on a peaceful nationalist march, killing 18 and wounding scores. By the time the Rosskams arrived however, Mr. Albizu Campos was in an Atlanta prison. Undaunted, they explored the aftermath of this painful episode.
"Nothing they saw in the States compared with what they saw in 1937 and 1938 on the island," said Laura Katzman, an associate professor of art history at James Madison University. "They had seen unemployment and poverty, but not like this. It was one of the most shocking encounters with poverty and the United States' relation to one of its territories. They were absolutely shocked. I feel it sealed their commitment to the island, certainly their commitment to photography and documentary photography in the service of social reform."
Their two-month stay changed their lives, and in 1945, they returned to Puerto Rico at the request of Gov. Rexford G. Tugwell, an American, who wanted the Rosskams to document conditions on the island as well as government programs aimed to help the poor and to industrialize the economy. It would become a touchstone in their lives.
Louise came into her own during their second sojourn. Now, an exhibit of her Puerto Rico work - "Picturing Puerto Rico Under the American Flag" - is on display through July 21 in New York at the Hunter College East Harlem Art Gallery. Co-sponsored by the Center for Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College, the exhibit follows last year's major retrospective at the American University, "Re-viewing Documentary: The Photographic Life of Louise Rosskam."
Though she is not as well known as her contemporaries, it was not for lack of compelling work.
"She was one of those documentary photographers for whom the people and the work were so much more important than her name or her career," said Ms. Katzman, who curated both shows. "She tried to erase herself as much as possible. It was a pure documentary ideal that was impossible to achieve: let the subject feel comfortable, take yourself out of it and see what happens in the encounter. She did this beautifully because her ego wasn't invested in it."
By the time the Rosskams arrived in Puerto Rico in 1945, they had already had ample experience working for the Farm Security Administration, the Office of War Information and Standard Oil. The couple - who had met and married in their native Philadelphia - had been a team of sorts, with Louise starting out as Edwin's assistant and sharing credits, even. When they came to Puerto Rico the second time, they had been lured by Governor Tugwell to undertake a Farm Security Administration-like project on the island, documenting conditions and the government's programs.
Her photographs betray an attention to detail in both composition and message. In one shot (), children walk past a war bonds billboard that vows "Democracy Will Win," an incongruous thought for a territory whose fortunes had been controlled by the United States since 1898 (and before that, Spain). In another (), a large, pristine house sits on a hill overlooking a jumble of wooden shacks.
But her portraits of poor people also betray a basic tenet of her approach, giving people their due, not pity.
"There was a respect and dignity she wanted to bring out," Ms. Katzman said. "There was a very moving compassion for the subject that did not put them down. You don't feel sorry for them."
Given the Rosskams' politics and the reality of being privileged mainlanders working on the island, their time there would be shaped by those forces. Louise's images conveyed the tough reality of living conditions, as well as having a certain sweep that encompassed everything from industry to religious practice.
Louise and Edwin - as did their friend Jack Delano - became close with Luis Muoz Marn, who would become the island's first Puerto Rican elected governor. After working for Governor Tugwell's project, they went to the newly established Division of Community Education, which brought art and film to far-flung towns. And like Mr. Delano, they turned their attention to film.
But their stay was cut short in 1953, when they were under fire politically: conservatives called them Communists, while leftists said they were sellouts. Already uneasy about raising their children among an elite group of mainlanders, the Rosskams also feared the political brickbats hurled at them would harm Mr. Muoz Marn's political future. In a heartbreaking move, they left Puerto Rico and moved to Roosevelt, N.J., where their friend and fellow artist Ben Shahn was living.
Ms. Katzman met Louise in 1991, after having gone to Roosevelt to research for her dissertation on Mr. Shahn. She found her to be self-effacing, and it took a while before Louise shared the extent of her work with her. It turned out that in the years after leaving Puerto Rico, Louise had devoted herself to teaching high school biology and taking on the occasional photo project. Edwin had died in 1985.
The topic of Puerto Rico was never far from her mind. In fact, she kept bringing the conversation back to that period in her life.
"It was the main thing she wanted to talk about," Ms. Katzman said. "It signaled to me there was an unfinished part of the story. They left under very sad circumstances. They never quite found again the cause and mission that drove them in the beginning."
Louise began to think more about her legacy in later years, Ms. Katzman said, worried that the archives in Puerto Rico did not have the resources to properly care for her work. And while she had shared credits with Edwin, she now wanted to ensure her own contributions were duly noted. More important, she worried the work would be lost, not just physically, but in the public consciousness.
"There was a fear that people were ignorant about Puerto Rico," Ms. Katzman said. "For most, it's just a tourist destination. It's not on people's radar. She wanted to get that story out and what it meant for her and a generation of people she worked with."
Louise died in 2003 in New Jersey, a place she eventually came to love, although Puerto Rico was never far from her heart.
"She couldn't get over how flat New Jersey was," Ms. Katzman said. "She and Edwin loved the topography of the island."
Granted, Puerto Rico had peaks and valleys that shaped their lives.
"They felt they could do something there," Ms. Katzman said. "They were at the top of their game, and everything was coming together: the work, the connection to powerful people and being there at the right moment. That never came together again. She said you can feel really important on a small island. The work reflects that."

        
A Masterwork Spanning 40 Years and One Island
        
Jack Delano's American Sonata
        
A Historic Photo Archive Re-Emerges at the New York Public Library
        
Showcase: Cultural Tapestry, Under Wraps
        
Angels Watch Over Memories of War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (87%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); MARRIAGE (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (57%) American University; Ben Shahn; David Gonzalez; East Harlem; Edwin Rosskam; Farm Security; Hunter College; Jack Delano; Laura Katzman; Louise Rosskam; Luis Munoz Marin; NJ; Office Of War Information; Pedro Albizu Campos; Puerto Rican Nationalists; Rexford G. Tugwell; Roosevelt; Roy Stryker; Delano, Jack; Shahn, Ben; Photography; Puerto Ricans; Farm Security Administration; Standard Oil Co; Puerto Rico; United States; Showcase

ORGANIZATION: JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY (56%) Farm Security Administration; Standard Oil Co

PERSON: Delano, Jack; Shahn, Ben

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Puerto Rico; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



300 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: Tight Medical Marijuana Laws Draw Dispensaries to Arizona

BYLINE: NADIA TAHA


HIGHLIGHT: Competition in the medical marijuana market, rising numbers of wheel and tire thefts, more investors engaging in activism and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Wheel and tire thefts are resurgent around the country. (N.Y./Region)
        
Jiffy Lube from 'the upsell.' (Business Day)
        
Lesbian widow says marriage bias cost her over $500,000 in taxes. (N.Y./Region)
        
Limited competition drives medical marijuana ventures to Arizona. (U.S.)
        
A new plan tocurb distracted driving. (Wheels)
        
More investors engaging in activism over executive pay, corporate governance. (DealBook)
        
How much will richer Americans pay for health care of poorer Americans? (Economix)
        
Former baseball star's state-subsidized video game studio is bankrupt. (U.S.)
        
Newspaper prints Cuban flag in ad promoting Puerto Rican Day parade. (Media Decoder)
        
Unemployed people observe Job Fair Month by continuing to look for work. (City Room)

        
People With Individual Health Plans Would Save Out-of-Pocket Under Reform, Study Finds
        
A Ruling Gives Gay Couples Hope for Financial Equality
        
Managing the Risk in Your Investment Portfolio
        
Help in Deciding if Medical Tests Are Needed
        
Some Tax Breaks Unavailable to Same-Sex Couples

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MARIJUANA (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); CANNABIS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (71%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); BASEBALL (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (52%) Estate Planning; Gay & Lesbian; Health Expenses; Investing; Medical Marijuana; Personal Finances; Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



301 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: From the Union of Concerned Scientists, a Framework for Reducing Oil Consumption

BYLINE: PAUL STENQUIST


HIGHLIGHT: The organization's Half the Oil Plan outlines, in general terms, workable solutions to curb the projected oil consumption of the United States. 

 BODY:
The Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit American watchdog group, released a framework document this week for reducing the projected oil use of the United States by half over 20 years. On its Web site, the organization characterized its Half the Oil Plan as a clear, achievable road map to significantly curb the nation's dependency on oil.
In April, the union released a widely discussed study that quantified the greenhouse gas contribution and operating cost of electric vehicles.
Its Half the Oil Plan outlines, in general terms, what the union believes is a workable solution to problems that might arise if an over-reliance on unsustainable petroleum resources were to persist. The organization says that our current rate of consumption would lead to an oil habit of 22 million barrels a day by 2035. To reduce that projected consumption by half, more efficient technologies and greater innovation would be required.
The plan provides broad-stroke strategies rather than specifics. When asked if it could be fairly characterized as a road map, David Friedman, senior engineer and deputy director of the vehicles program at the union, said the document's purpose was to lay out a top-level plan. In a follow-up e-mail, Mr. Friedman added that much of the background work for the Half the Oil document could be found in the group's Climate 2030 Blueprint, which puts forward recommendations for specific upgrades in transportation, construction and other heavy-industry sectors. "For the brochure, our goal was to lay out the potential for each category," Mr. Friedman said.
Among objectives outlined in Half the Oil is a doubling of the fuel efficiency of new cars and light trucks by 2025, for a net savings of four million barrels a day. That may well be achievable, given the government's and automakers' settlement on a corporate average fuel economy standard of 54.5 miles per gallon in 2025. The union said a target of 60 m.p.g. could be achievable if a number of factors, like increased acceptance of hybrids and implementation of fuel-cell technology, came together just so.
Other goals presented in the Half the Oil Plan include doubling the fuel efficiency of large commercial vehicles by 2030 for a projected savings of one million barrels a day; making planes, trains and ships more fuel-efficient for a net savings of five million barrels; and retrofitting buildings to use less energy, which would deliver savings of two million barrels daily, it said.
Exactly how those targets would be met was not the objective of the Half the Oil Plan, but Mr. Friedman said specific strategies for reaching the goals were developed by the Union of Concerned Scientists in its previous work, as well as by other individuals and organizations. He cited a study prepared for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change last year, which offered suggestions for reducing transportation-sector emissions, which by definition would reduce petroleum consumption.
"It is a rallying cry," Mr. Friedman said of the plan. "A lot of the conversation today is about oil and gas prices and who is to blame. What we need to be talking about is how to cut oil use."

        
Automakers React to 54.5 M.P.G.
        
Cheap Natural Gas Prompts Energy Department to Soften Its Line on Fuel Cells
        
With Sales Imminent, Ethanol Blend's Impact on Engine Durability Remains Contentious
        
From a Green Corner of the Auto Show, SRT Viper Earns an Unlikely Fan
        
California Board Votes Unanimously to Toughen Zero-Emission Vehicle Mandate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); WEB SITES (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%) CAFE standards; oil; Union of Concerned Scientists; Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Environment; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (94%) Union of Concerned Scientists

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



302 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Shooting at Laws in Ads (Literally)

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES


HIGHLIGHT: Ron Gould says he won't back down from liberals at The Times, just like he won't back down from liberals in Washington. 

 BODY:
Ron Gould, an Arizona state senator running for Congress, really, really doesn't want government to mess with anybody's health care. I noted that in a post yesterday, linking to a campaign ad that shows him blasting President Obama's health-care reform, the Affordable Care Act, with a pump-action shotgun.
He doesn't actually hunt it down to kill it. It gets launched into the air in front of him, like a big, 900-page clay pigeon. He then blows it to bits. He is, after all, "a straight shooter."
I think Mr. Gould liked my post, because he immediately used it in a fund-raising appeal. "I won't back down from the liberals at the New York Times editorial page," he says, "just like I won't back down from the liberals in Washington who want to keep raising the debt limit to pay for their endless cycle of spending that will do nothing more than ruin the economic prosperity of our country."

Mr. Gould was the sponsor of a bill in the state Legislature to nullify the Affordable Care Act in Arizona. It declares that the act and a companion reconciliation measure "are not authorized by the Constitution of the United States and violate its true meaning and intent as given by the founders and ratifiers and are declared to be invalid in this state, shall not be recognized by this state, are specifically rejected by this state and are considered void and of no effect in this state."
That's making your views pretty clear.
I have not yet met Mr. Gould, but if I do, I'd like to ask him if he really means what he says about government-run health care. Since there is no government-run health care in Mr. Obama's plan, do you want to (O.K., figuratively) shoot up Medicare and Medicaid, and Veterans Affairs medical centers and clinics, and military hospitals? Aren't there senior citizens in Phoenix and Glendale who depend on government health care for their prescription drugs? Who are the troops supposed to go to when they get blown away? Halliburton? And if you take your seat in Congress, are you not going to sign up for the members' health plan? I hear it's a good one.
I should note that Mr. Gould is not the first or only candidate to shoot a law in a political ad. In 2010 a Democrat, Joe Manchin, used a scope-mounted rifle to assassinate a cap-and-trade bill. He is now the junior senator from West Virginia.
In an ad from Herman Cain's Cain Solutions, a man and a young girl do a terrible thing to a rabbit to make a point about the burden placed on small businesses by the tax code.

        
'Washington Doesn't Get Us'
        
The Most Expensive Campaign Ever
        
We're Fox News and We Approved This Message
        
What Will President Obama Say?
        
How to Energize the Liberal Base

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); MEDICAID (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (66%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); ARMED FORCES (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Arizona; health care reform; Political Advertising; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arizona

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



303 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Sports, Racism and Disharmony at Euro 2012

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Sport is supposed to bring nations together, not drive them apart. But as national soccer teams kick off Euro 2012, political recriminations are once more dominating a major event. 

 BODY:
LONDON - What was that about sports promoting international harmony and understanding?
As the hour approached for the opening whistle of the Euro 2012 soccer tournament on Friday, it was mostly discord that was in evidence.
Poland and Ukraine are co-hosting what my colleague Jer Longman has described as "the most important sporting event in Eastern Europe since the fall of the Berlin Wall."
The 16-nation tournament had been seen as an opportunity for the two former Soviet bloc states to showcase their incorporation into the wider European family over the past two decades.
But, even before the first ball was kicked, the four-yearly sports festival had provoked recriminations and boycotts linked to Ukraine's human rights record and the alleged racism among local fans in both countries.
"The hope is that a million tourists, who have never visited Poland or Ukraine, will see enough to make them want to visit again," wrote Rob Hughes, the IHT's soccer reporter in his front-page article today. "The fear is that even if new infrastructures are ready, old, intolerant attitudes toward race may not be."
On the political front, the British government on Thursday became the latest to announce that its ministers and officials would boycott the qualifying rounds of the tournament in protest at "selective justice and the rule of law in Ukraine." (It hedged its bet by not ruling out attendance at later matches in the unlikely event that the England team advances to the final.)
Other European governments had already said they would not attend matches in Ukraine, citing the incarceration and alleged mistreatment of Yulia V. Tymoshenko, the jailed Ukrainian opposition leader.
The clash of sports and politics is nothing new. The ancient Spartans were barred from the Olympic Games for refusing to pay a fine for breaking a truce - and that was in 420 B.C.
In modern times, money has been thrown into the often poisonous politico-sporting mix to ensure that no international sporting gathering is just about the games. Allegations of corruption and profiteering are now a familiar leitmotif.
"Indeed, the belief that sports on an international scale can operate outside national, economic or even political realities is no longer possible," Rob wrote in an earlier piece.
"Prestigious events like the Olympics, World Cup and European Championships require governmental backing, international security enforcement and cooperation between all sectors of society."
Do host countries exaggerate the benefits and prestige of staging major international events, while others overestimate the effectiveness of their periodic boycotts?
Countries frequently put themselves in hock for the glory of hosting sporting festivals whose legacy is soon forgotten, while boycotts rarely spark a change in the behavior of the offending party.
In 1980, the United States led a Western boycott of the Moscow Olympic Games to protest the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Moscow's predictable reaction was to remain in Afghanistan and lead its own tit-for-tat boycott of the 1984 Los Angeles Games.
Does the current pressure on Ukraine stand any greater chance of changing its government's behavior, or is it just a case of gesture politics on the part of the boycotters? It is only a half-boycott anyway, since none of Ukraine's critics has actually proposed pulling teams out of the games.
An analysis of current Ukrainian politics suggests the powerful oligarchy surrounding President Viktor Yanukovych is quite happy to inhabit a "grey zone" between the European Union and Russia in which "its members may continue their self-enrichment unhindered by reforms."
"Boycotts of the Euro 2012 football tournament may not concern the oligarchs around Yanukovych very much," the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies concluded.

        
Bombs Add to Soccer Festival Woes
        
'Breathtaking' Victory for Manchester's Other Team
        
Soccer Name Change Fuels Falklands Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (92%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (92%); BOYCOTTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); CORRUPTION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%) football; poland; Soccer; uefa; Ukraine; Tymoshenko, Yulia V; Boycotts; UEFA European Football Championship; Europe; Featured; Sports; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF EUROPEAN FOOTBALL ASSOCIATIONS (84%)

PERSON: YULIA TYMOSHENKO (75%) Tymoshenko, Yulia V

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (95%); UKRAINE (95%); POLAND (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Europe; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



304 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Global Food Prices Retreat

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Prospects are better than had been feared for food supplies this summer, the Food and Agriculture Organization projects, although extreme weather could change the picture. 

 BODY:
Global food prices dropped sharply in May and are likely to fall further in coming months, although they remain vulnerable to possible extreme weather events, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization reports. The price declines were especially striking for oils, fats, dairy products and sugar. [Reuters]
Japan's prime minister appeals to the nation to accept that two nuclear reactors that have been shut down since the Fukushima Daiichi disaster must be restarted to protect the economy and people's livelihoods. [Associated Press]
 The House Natural Resources Committee votes to weaken the Lacey Act, marking up a bill that would make it easier to import illegally logged wood into the United States. [Library of Congress]
P.S. 194 in the South Bronx takes the top prize in a citywide energy efficiency competition. The school cut its electricity usage by 21 percent from two years earlier, according to readings by Con Ed. [Solar One]

        
The Low-Level Radiation Puzzle
        
On Our Radar: Cuts in German Solar Subsidies
        
An Ad-Hoc Solution for Extra Nuclear Safety
        
Can Efficiency Counter a Loss of Nuclear Power?
        
Quakes and U.S. Reactors: An Analytic Tool

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (92%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WEATHER (90%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); TSUNAMIS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (57%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%) energy efficieincy; Food and Agriculture Organization; Food Prices; Fukushima Daiichi; Lacey Act; New York City schools; nuclear power; Earthquakes; Economic Conditions and Trends; Electric Light and Power; Japan Earthquake and Tsunami (2011); Nuclear Energy; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; House Natural Resources Committee; Japan; Agriculture; Breaking News; Business; climate change; Living; Weather Extremes

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (94%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%) Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; House Natural Resources Committee

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (90%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



305 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $17.25 million

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: A 12-room ninth-floor co-op where Leon Hess, the oil magnate and Jets owners, lived until his death. 

 BODY:
The apartment on Park Avenue whereLeon Hess, the oil magnate and New York Jets owner, lived until his death in 1999 sold for $17.25 million, the biggest sale of the week, according to city records.
Mr. Hess's widow, Norma Wilentz Hess, continued to live in the 12-room ninth-floor apartment in the co-op building at 625 Park Avenue, at 65th Street, until her own death in 2010.
Soon after she died, the family's estate put the home up for sale at an asking price of $20 million.
Despite its grand size - 5,300 square feet - and Old World details like wood-burning fireplaces in the dining room, living room, library and master bedroom, the apartment lingered on the market.
Potential buyers may have been put off by the way the apartment was configured, with only four bedrooms and a large part of the home devoted to rooms for the staff. 
But over the past year the demand for such large spaces has intensified, and many of the storied co-op buildings on the Upper East Side have seen record sales. In October, another apartment at 625 Park, five floors below the Hess unit, sold for $25 million. 
Deborah Grubman and David Dubin, the brokers from the Corcoran Group who handled the sale for the Hess family, declined to comment.
The buyer is Marjorie Gershwind Fiverson, according to city records. 
Mr. Hess was perhaps best known in New York as the Jets' owner, but he made his fortune in the oil business. He turned his father's ailing fuel-oil delivery company into a major player in the petroleum business. After World War II, when he served as the petroleum supply officer for Gen. George S. Patton, his business grew exponentially.
He first invested in the Jets in 1963, and became the sole owner in 1984. Robert Wood Johnson bought the National Football League team soon after Mr. Hess's death.
Mr. Hess avoided publicity, meeting with reporters only a handful of times in all his years as owner of the Jets, according to his obituary in The Times. The photos in the Corcoran listing are not much more revealing, showing a rather generic interior, with few clues to the rich life of the man who once called the apartment home.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $52.5 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $16,500,000
        
Big Ticket | Park Ave. Co-op Is Sale of Week
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $23,350,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $14,380,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); WORLD WAR II (63%) Big Ticket; Park Avenue; real estate; Hess, Leon; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Park Avenue (NYC); Housing & Economy

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%)

PERSON: Hess, Leon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Park Avenue (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



306 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2435 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
Once-Reticent Investors Join Shareholder Revolts | Every spring, corporate chieftains and their boards squash uprisings from a familiar batch of pugnacious investors, a ritual that shields many companies from major change.
This proxy season was different. In recent weeks, chief executives and directors have gone up against a more formidable foe than the typical corporate gadfly: the mainstream investor.
It is the changing face of shareholder activism. While proxy season has long been the domain of labor unions and activist investors with large personalities and forceful demands, increasingly it is mutual funds and other more tempered institutional shareholders who are criticizing lavish pay packages and questioning corporate governance. 
Emboldened by new regulations - and angered by laggard stock performance and recent scandals - this new crop of activists is voting down company policies and backing proposals to reform corporate boards. The movement has already stung a variety of companies, including Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Wal-Mart.
At its annual shareholder meeting in Oklahoma City on Friday, Chesapeake Energy will confront an army of angry institutional investors shouting for a shake-up at the embattled company. Shareholders, already exercised about the company's underperforming stock, have seized on revelations that Chesapeake's chief executive took personal loans from the company's lenders.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Daniel Loeb Said to Be Shopping His Penthouse | Brokers and developers in New York say the hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb and his wife are quietly seeking buyers for their 10,674-square-foot space at 15 Central Park West, and are rumored to be asking for $100 million, The New York Times reports. Another residence in that building was recently sold by Sanford I. Weil for a record-setting $88 million.
NEW YORK TIMES
Meet Warren Buffett's Bodyguard | A CNBC reporter attended a training session held by Warren E. Buffett's bodyguard, Dan Clark, a former Omaha police officer who uses phrases like "muay Thai clench with a double knee strike."
CNBC
The Wall Street Intern's Guide to Leisure | Kevin Roose writes in New York magazine: "Not to burst bubbles, but Wall Street these days - especially for interns - is more like Foxconn than UConn."
NEW YORK
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Europe's Woes Continue to Hamper Takeovers | So far this year, the combined value of takeovers in Europe has fallen 23 percent as market volatility and a reduction in financing continue to thwart efforts across the Continent to complete deals.
DealBook 
Sberbank of Russia to Buy DenizBank for $3.5 Billion | The Russian bank has agreed to buy DenizBank, a Turkish subsidiary of the struggling French-Belgian lender Dexia, for $3.5 billion, as Sberbank looks to diversify away from its home market.
DealBook 
As Best Buy Founder Leaves, Thoughts of a Leveraged Buyout Re-Emerge | With the founder of Best Buy announcing on Thursday that he was resigning and potentially selling off his 20.1 percent stake in the company, many have been wondering whether the beleaguered electronics retailer may be sold.
DealBook 
Pep Boys Affirms It Is Not on the Block | "We're not soliciting," the chief executive of the auto parts and repair company said.
DealBook 
Genting of Singapore Buys Stake in Echo Entertainment | The move prompted speculation that Genting, an Asian gambling giant, was preparing to make a play for control of Echo, the Australian casino operator, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Chesapeake Energy Looks to Sell Some Holdings | One of Chesapeake's advisers released a prospectus detailing the company's plans to sell holdings in northern Michigan as it looks to raise cash, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Alibaba Receptive to Investment From a Sovereign Wealth Fund | The Alibaba Group would be willing to sell a stake to firms like the China Investment Corporation or Temasek Holdings as it looks to finance its purchase of shares from Yahoo, said Jack Ma, the founder, in an interview with Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Genivar of Canada Offers to Buy WSP | Genivar, the Canadian engineering company, made a cash offer of roughly $427 million for the WSP Group, a British consulting firm, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Telefonica and Vodafone Announce Alliance in Britain | The two companies confirmed on Thursday that they planned to combine their wireless phone grids in Britain and jointly build a superfast network to keep up with another joint venture, Everything Everywhere, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Olympus Aims to Raise Shareholders' Equity Ratio by 2017 | The announcement suggested the scandal-plagued company may have to raise capital, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Fed Wants U.S. Banks to Adhere to Stiffer International Rules | The rules, known as Basel III, are intended to ensure that banks can survive financial shocks like the crisis in 2008, mostly by requiring them to raise more capital.
DealBook 
Making Sense of Morgan Stanley's Derivatives Moves | While many big banks warehouse derivatives in subsidiaries that rely on federally insured deposits to fund themselves, Morgan Stanley does not - and it could weigh on profits in an already lackluster environment.
DealBook 
Vicious Circle of Bond Sales in Spain | Most of the demand for Spanish government bonds at Thursday's auction came from the country's increasingly fragile banks, the very institutions that the government is in the process of bailing out, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Asian Companies Turn to Bond Markets | As banks in Asia pull back from lending, companies have issued $398 billion of bonds in the region excluding Japan so far this year, an increase of 29 percent from the period last year, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
John Medlin Jr., Former Wachovia Chief, Is Dead at 78 | John Medlin Jr., who served as chief executive of Wachovia for almost two decades, died on Thursday. He was 78.
DealBook 
Head of Institute of International Finance to Step Down | Charles Dallara, the managing director of the Institute of International Finance who had a prominent role in negotiations between private bondholders and Greece, is stepping down.
DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Banker Heads to Russia's Rosneft | The Russian oil giant Rosneft has hired Dmitry Avdeyev, co-head of investment banking at Morgan Stanley in Moscow, to be its vice president for finance and economics, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Equiduct Said to Seek New Investors | The London-based trading platform Equiduct Systems, which is owned by Citadel and Knight Capital, has had discussions about selling a stake or taking on new partners, two unidentified people with direct knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Proposal to Increase Competition Among Fast Traders | Chris Stucchio, a math Ph.D. who once worked at a high-frequency trading firm, told Bloomberg Businessweek that if stocks were allowed to be priced in increments smaller than one penny, it would force high-frequency traders to compete on price, possibly benefiting retail investors.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
PRIVATE EQUITY 
India Loses its Luster | Private equity firms once benefited from rapid economic growth in India, raising billions of dollars for funds focused on the country. But many are now struggling to raise capital amid concerns about slowing growth and an uncertain outlook for the local stock market, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Private Equity Takes a Shine to Commodities Firms | Buyout groups have been eyeing businesses like Morgan Stanley's commodities unit, but any such deal would face several complications, The Financial Times writes.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Blackstone Pitches Benefits of Energy Investing | David Foley, the head of the energy arm of the Blackstone Group, said private equity firms were well suited to invest in oil and natural gas firms despite market volatility, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Some Context in the Private Equity Debate | Dan Primack writes in Fortune that the private equity market of today is different than when Mitt Romney ran Bain Capital, in several key ways.
FORTUNE
HEDGE FUNDS 
Brevan Howard Bets on Risky Mortgage Securities | Brevan Howard Asset Management is buying commercial mortgage-backed securities dating from before the real estate crash, and is said to be aiming to generate returns as high as 60 percent, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the strategy.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Clive Capital Defies a Rough Month | During a period when many hedge funds struggled to generate returns, Clive Capital gained about 7 percent in the first three weeks of May after betting that prices of oil, power and coal would fall, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people with knowledge of the fund.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
RDG Capital Weighs a Bid for Digital Generation | RDG Capital, the activist investment firm, said it was in talks with Digital Generation over a possible takeover, after having built up a 4.9 percent stake in the advertising management company, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
London Fund Plans Partial Liquidation | The London-based hedge fund Fortelus said in a letter to clients it would split its main fund into ongoing and liquidating share classes as it looks to meet redemption requests, according to The Financial Times.
FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Losses From Facebook Estimated Near $200 Million | The Knight Capital Group, which previously said its own losses from trading Facebook were between $30 million and $35 million, estimated that overall losses for the industry could be as high as $200 million, Bloomberg News reports. Knight's chief executive called Nasdaq's compensation plan "underwhelming at best."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Nasdaq Plan Comes Under Fire at Industry Conference | One broker says of Nasdaq's handling of the Facebook I.P.O. last month: "It's hard to envision it having been handled more badly."
DealBook 
Facebook Said to Scout Office Space in Manhattan | The social network is looking to expand its New York presence beyond the space it currently occupies near Grand Central Station, Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the search.
REUTERS
Pfizer Confirms Spinoff of Animal Health Unit | Shares in Pfizer were up slightly on Thursday after the drug maker announced that it planned to take its animal health unit public rather than sell it.
DealBook 
Astro of Malaysia Aims to Raise $1.5 Billion in an I.P.O. | Astro All Asia Networks, the Malaysian television company, is planning to list in the fourth quarter of this year, Dow Jones reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Crowdfunding Enters the Mainstream | The two top-grossing funding campaigns on Kickstarter were started by established professionals and angel-backed companies, Fortune writes.
fortune
Larry Ellison Takes to Twitter | The Oracle chief executive used his new Twitter account to trash-talk SAP, a big rival.
TWITTER
Dell Launches Credit Fund | Dell announced a $100 million fund to extend credit to start-ups.
PRESS RELEASE
Felicis Ventures Raises Fund | Felicis Ventures, a "super angel" fund, has secured $70 million to invest in the mobile, health and education sectors, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Search Engine for Apps Raises $20 Million | Quixey, which allows users to search for apps, attracted $20 million from investors including the WI Harper Group and U.S. Venture Partners, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Japanese Insider Trading Case Ensnares U.S. Firm | The Japanese financial regulator proposed a fine of $185,000 against First New York Securities for alleged insider trading, as part of a widening investigation into suspicious trading.
DealBook 
At Gupta's Insider Trial, a Star Goldman Witness and Charts | Evidence at Rajat K. Gupta's insider trading trial suggest that he allowed Raj Rajaratnam, the former head of the Galleon Group, to listen to a call among Goldman board members in March 2007.
DealBook 
Accounting Backfired at MF Global | The accounting maneuver MF Global used allowed it to buy bonds issued by European countries and book profits the same day. That is the rough equivalent of a farmer's booking profits as soon as he plants the crop, Floyd Norris writes in The New York Times.
DealBook 
Bear Stearns Investors Settle Claims for $275 Million | A group of Bear Stearns shareholders who claimed to have been hurt by the investment bank's deteriorating health has agreed to settle its claims for $275 million, four years after the firm was sold to JPMorgan Chase.
DealBook 
Bernanke Does Not Signal Further Fed Action | The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, offered an assessment of the economy that was largely similar to his public remarks in April, saying that despite disappointing hiring data it appeared economic growth would continue over the next few quarters.
NEW YORK TIMES
Bernanke Addresses Jamie Dimon's Role at N.Y. Fed | The Federal Reserve chairman said it was up to Congress to resolve any potential conflict of interest caused by the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase sitting on the board of the New York Fed, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
China Central Bank Cuts Rates as Growth Slows | The People's Bank of China said it would reduce interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point in an effort to counteract the malaise that seems to be affecting the nation's economy, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Bank of England Leaves Rate Unchanged | The British central bank decided on Thursday to maintain its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent and to stick with its current stimulus program of government-bond purchases.
NEW YORK TIMES
Housing Agency to Announce Mortgage Sale Program | The Federal Housing Administration is expected to announce plans on Friday to sell some of the 700,000 delinquent loans it insures, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
At a House Hearing, a Focus on Argentine Bonds | A group of bondholders pursuing a litigation strategy that involves seeking to lay claim to Argentine assets wherever they can be found may have a tough time making its case, DealBook's bankruptcy columnist writes.
DealBook 
Tribune's Bankruptcy May Be Nearing an End | The Tribune Company offered a reorganization plan to pay off creditors that is expected to be approved, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (93%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); MERGERS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); SCANDALS (69%)

COMPANY: SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (80%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); DEXIA SA (50%)

TICKER: SBER (RTS) (80%); SBER (LSE) (80%); GS (NYSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); DEXB (BRU) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (70%); OMAHA, NE, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (71%); NEBRASKA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (85%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



307 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Detail by Detail, Gupta's Lawyer Deconstructs Goldman Testimony

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: During his second-day questioning of Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive, Rajat Gupta's defense lawyer worked hard to turn facts toward his client's advantage. 

 BODY:
6:25 p.m. | Updated 
It had to have been among the least productive weeks of Lloyd C. Blankfein's six-year tenure as the chief executive of Goldman Sachs.
For the better part of three days this week, Mr. Blankfein testified at the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman director who is facing charges that he leaked the bank's secret boardroom discussions to the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam from 2007 to 2009.
Though Mr. Blankfein appeared at ease in the courtroom, he had to clear his busy calendar. He could not monitor the volatility in the financial markets. He could not even check his BlackBerry, to which he has acknowledged something of an addiction. In short, he could not do his job.
Instead, Mr. Blankfein, who has spent most of his career in the fast-paced environment of a trading floor, had to sit still on the witness stand and respond to hours of often-monotonous questions. Lawyers on both sides had him discuss Goldman's inner workings, from the contents of board meetings to his relationship with his lieutenants.
Goldman has played a starring role in the trial of Mr. Gupta, which wrapped up its third week in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff. The prosecution rested its case on Friday, and the defense began to put on its own witnesses.
Late Friday, after the jury had gone home for the weekend, Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta, said it was "highly likely" that Mr. Gupta would testify in his own defense next week.
Mr. Naftalis spent much of Friday cross-examining Mr. Blankfein to try to show that some of the information Mr. Gupta is accused of leaking was known by the market and thus not "material nonpublic information" under the insider trading laws.
The line between public and private information is critical in the case, and Mr. Naftalis worked hard to try to erase that line. He showed Mr. Blankfein two reports from analysts who followed Goldman during the 2008 financial crisis. The reports, written by analysts at Merrill Lynch and Oppenheimer, raise the prospect of Goldman buying a retail bank. Both reports came after meetings with top Goldman officials.
"GS Bank & Trust?" pondered one report. "Don't rule it out."
A rationale for putting the reports before the jury was to minimize damage from the only phone conversation between the two recorded by a Federal Bureau of Investigation wiretap. During that call, in July 2008, Mr. Gupta tells Mr. Rajaratnam that Goldman's board is considering buying a bank.
A jury convicted Mr. Rajaratnam, who ran the now-defunct Galleon Group hedge fund, of orchestrating an extensive insider trading conspiracy last year.
At times, Mr. Naftalis and Mr. Blankfein often seemed to fight for the jury's affection. While Mr. Blankfein was being presented with a batch of news pieces about Goldman's possible purchase of a bank, an article flashed on the overhead screen with a photograph of Mr. Blankfein resting his face on his left hand. This prompted laughter from the jury and spectators.
Mr. Blankfein, seizing the moment, mimicked the pose from the witness stand, leading to more cackling in the courtroom.
Comparing Mr. Blankfein's pose against the photograph, Mr. Naftalis instructed the chief executive to move his hand "down and a little to the left."
As he left the courtroom, Mr. Blankfein acknowledged the jury with a nod and a smile.
Before resting their case on Friday, prosecutors played several secretly recorded short voice mail messages left by Mr. Gupta on Mr. Rajaratnam's cellphone. During one on Oct. 10, 2008, a time of market turmoil during the financial crisis, Mr. Gupta says: "Hey Raj, Rajat here. Just calling to catch up. I know it must be an awful and busy week. I hope you are holding up well. Uh, and I'll try to give you a call over the weekend just to catch up. All the best to you, talk to you soon. Bye bye."
Mr. Gupta's lawyers have said that by October 2008, Mr. Gupta had lost his entire $10 million in a Galleon fund and had a falling-out with Mr. Rajaratnam and thus had no interest in passing along insider tips. The friendly tone of the voice mail message was the prosecution's effort to debunk that theory. Reed Brodsky, a prosecutor, rested the government's case after playing the recordings.
For the last 45 minutes of the day, the jury watched the defense's videotaped deposition of Ajit Jain, a top lieutenant at Berkshire Hathaway and a top contender to succeed Warren E. Buffett, Berkshire's chief executive.
Mr. Jain, a friend of Mr. Gupta's, testified about the acrimony that had developed between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam. He said that during a lunch in January 2009 at an Italian restaurant in Stamford, Conn., Mr. Gupta told him about the bad blood.
"He told me that he had $10 million invested and he had been gypped, swindled and cheated by Raj and had lost his $10 million."

        
Blankfein Describes Financial Crisis Board Meetings at Galleon Trial
        
What Will Blankfein Say at Galleon Trial?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); VERDICTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); WIRETAPPING (60%) Galleon; Gary P. Naftalis; Goldman Sachs; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat K. Gupta; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Gupta, Rajat K.; Insider Trading; Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Galleon Investigation; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (94%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (89%) Blankfein, Lloyd C; Gupta, Rajat K.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



308 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Under Budget Pressure, Regulator Gets Support From Former Chief

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: After House Republicans slashed the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's budget by 14 percent in an appropriations bill, Brooksley Born, the agency's chairwoman under President Clinton, came to the commission's defense. 

 BODY:
Republican lawmakers want Wall Street's smallest regulator to shed some more pounds. 
In a House appropriations bill released this week, Republicans slashed the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's budget by 14 percent, to $180 million, roughly $128 million below what President Obama had sought. The proposed cut comes as the agency is charged with writing dozens of new rules for Wall Street.
Now, one of the agency's most prominent alumni is coming to its defense. 
Brooksley E. Born, the trading commission's chairwoman under President Clinton, joined Democratic lawmakers in Washington on Friday to highlight the case for a bigger budget at the agency. 
"The C.F.T.C. is a small agency with enormous responsibility," Ms. Born said, according to prepared remarks, adding that the agency "is desperately in need of additional funding." 
Under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, the agency must devise more than 50 new rules governing derivatives, a central cause of the financial crisis. 
Barney Frank, the co-author of the overhaul law and the lawmaker who hosted the event with Ms. Born on Friday, noted that the collapse of MF Global had also drained resources from the agency. Despite the added burdens, the Democrat from Massachusetts noted, the agency's budget had grown only 10 percent since Ms. Born led the agency.
The proposal from the House appropriations committee, which is only a preliminary plan subject to change as it moves through Congress, would most likely prompt layoffs at the agency. 
"They want to bring us back to the days of underregulated financial markets and the conditions that led to the Wall Street bailout," said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip of the House, who also attended the event on Friday. "Ms. Born, he said, is "here today to warn us again that, if we erode the S.E.C. and C.F.T.C.'S ability to do their jobs, we'll find ourselves right back where we were in 2008."
Washington has ignored Ms. Born's warnings in the past. 
More than a decade ago, she sounded alarms about increasing threats in the swaps industry, a dark corner of the derivatives industry. Lawmakers and Treasury Department officials dismissed her warnings and exempted the now $700 trillion market from oversight. 
The exemptions paved the way for the American International Group and other Wall Street firms to pile into the market, ultimately leading to the need for billions of dollars in bailouts. 
"The failure to regulate over-the-counter derivatives has already cost the country so much," Ms. Born said on Friday. "We must learn from this tragedy to avoid repeating it."

        
New Limits on Commodity Trades Are Approved
        
Commodity Panel Moves to Rein In Speculative Trading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); APPROPRIATIONS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BAILOUTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); WRITERS (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (50%) Barney Frank; Brooksley E. Born; C.F.T.C; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Dodd-Frank Act; Steny Hoyer; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (93%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (90%); BILL CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); STENY HOYER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



309 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: How Big Can a Small Business Be? (And Why It Matters)

BYLINE: AMI KASSAR


HIGHLIGHT: My thesis is that the big banks like to use the $20 million measurement so they can stick bigger, safer loans into their numbers and still look like they're helping small business. 

 BODY:
There is an age-old debate about what constitutes a small business. Most likely, we think about the question differently depending upon our vantage point in life. I've met corporate folks before who think a business with 500 employees or less is small. And I've met self-employed massage therapists who think they're too "small" to be considered a small business.
I'm hot on this topic because I am in the middle of attending the Clinton Global Initiative America conference in Chicago. It is organized by the Clinton Foundation, and there are about 900 folks in attendance trying to come up with commitments to action to address important issues facing our nation.
I'm participating in the small business track along with about 60 colleagues across the country from various non-profit, government, and business entities. All of the participants are passionate about helping small business - but there is no consensus about precisely what a small business is. And that's a problem: When we hear and read statistics about small businesses and how important they are to the economy, how can we make sense of them? 
Some examples might help. In the first plenary session Thursday morning, President Clinton emphasized how critical access to capital is to small-business owners and how important they are to the economy. He cited several stats, and I was right there with him.
Then, a few minutes later, he mentioned the recent commitment that big banks have made to increase their small-business lending by $20 billion dollars over the next few years. My skeptical antennae perked up. I fear that the big banks have the former president fooled. You see, the big banks define a small business as any company with revenue of $20 million or less. That includes lending to companies with hundreds of employees. From my perspective, these aren't small businesses.
Let me be clear why I think this is important. There is little dispute that there are some 27 million small businesses in the United States. There is also little dispute that the vast majority of them have revenue of $1 million or less. It would probably be conservative to estimate that 99 percent of them have revenue of $5 million or less. So when one starts throwing around numbers of $20 million or less, you start to muck up all the stats and hide the reality of what's happening in the market.
Imagine that you decided that you wanted to make a smoothie one morning, and you pulled out your blender and picked different ingredients out of your refrigerator. If you mix up a bunch of fruits you're likely to have a pretty tasty drink. But if you get creative and mix in some leftover chicken, your smoothie isn't going to taste very good.
You get a similar results when you mix businesses with revenue of $1 million with those that have revenue of $20 million. The $1 million company and the $20 million company have totally different needs. We shouldn't be mixing them.
My thesis is that the big banks like to use the $20 million measurement so they can stick bigger, safer loans into their numbers and still look like they're helping small business. It might be good for them, but it's not good for real small businesses.
Later in the conference Thursday, there was a panel discussion whose members included President Clinton and Robert G. Wilmers, chief executive of M&T Bank, which is based in Buffalo. I applaud M&T for having what I consider one of the best small-business lending records of any large bank in America, and President Clinton and Mr. Wilmers had a lively conversation about a number of issues, including the cumbersome Small Business Administration process.
The audience had the opportunity to tweet in questions, and I thought to myself - perhaps here is my chance, in 140 characters or less, to raise awareness of the small-business definition question. So I carefully crafted a tweet: "Mr. Wilmers. Many big banks define a small biz as having rev of 20 mill or less when they release lending #'s. Do u agree ?"
I was shocked when President Clinton asked Mr. Wilmers my question. I was hoping that it would give them pause, but there was no reaction from the president when Mr. Wilmers responded, "I think we define small business as having revenue of $10 million or less." I sighed and slumped back into my seat. I had failed to get my point across.
This is a big issue because without a clean and simple definition of what constitutes a small business, we're wasting our time and energy. We can't tackle the issue and find and measure solutions that work if we don't agree on what we're measuring and tracking.
Later in the day our working group met and we started to carve out our commitments to action. I suggested that we make a commitment to get a common definition of small business. I think this idea was not considered to be a big enough opportunity. Once again, I sighed.
What do you think constitutes a small business? Here is my idea. Let's call a small business any company that has revenue of $5 million or less. Let's insist that the banks and all of the federal agencies use this metric when defining their small-business programs. The $5 million limit might not be perfect, but it's a lot better than where we are today, and it would allow us to start digging into real issues and better understand what's happening in the market place.

        
Why Small-Business Lending Is Such a Confusing Mess
        
Drilling Down: What Small Businesses Should Know About Crowdfunding
        
Crowdfunding and Social Entrepreneurs
        
Why Start-Ups Need 'Crowd-Funding'
        
Why I Tend to Project a Little High

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (83%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); MASSAGE SERVICES (57%) Clinton Global Initiative; finance; lending; M&T Bank; small business finance; Searching for Capital

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



310 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: C.B.O.'s Take on the Stimulus

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans in Congress tried, and failed, to get the C.B.O. director to call the stimulus a failure. 

 BODY:
A certain ritual plays out whenever the director of the Congressional Budget Office testifies before a House or Senate committee. While partisans from each side try to score ideological points about spending or taxes, he has to remain studiously neutral, sticking to the numbers and inevitably frustrating his questioners.
On Wednesday, however, Douglas Elmendorf, the current director, annoyed Republicans on the House Budget Committee a little more than usual when they made several unsuccessful attempts to get him to say that President Obama's stimulus program was a failure.
First, Bill Flores, Republican of Texas, asked him which was more effective at increasing economic activity, private- or public-sector spending. The congressman clearly wanted the answer to be private-sector, but Mr. Elmendorf wouldn't help him, saying both would be equally effective. Mr. Flores pushed on anyway, asking why a second stimulus would be any more effective than the first one.

"But Congressman," Mr. Elmendorf replied, "as you understand -
and I recognize you don't agree with us - but our position is that the recovery act was not a failed program. Our position is that it created higher output and employment than would have occurred without it."
To which the congressman could only respond, rather sarcastically, "Thank you, that was fascinating."
A few minutes later, Tim Huelskamp, a freshman Republican from Kansas, made the often-stated point that the stimulus didn't bring the jobless rate down as low as the Obama administration predicted it would, and demanded to know how that could have happened.
Mr. Elmendorf explained that the recession turned out to be far deeper than anyone had anticipated, but said a University of Chicago survey of distinguished economists showed that 80 percent of them believed the stimulus was good for the economy.
"Because of the recovery act, the unemployment rate was lower at the end of 2010 than it would have been without the stimulus bill," he said. In fact, he said, it saved or created more than 3 million jobs.
Republicans quickly changed the subject. To them, the Recovery Act will always be the "failed stimulus program," and they'd rather not hear any information to the contrary. Particularly from someone who knows what he's talking about.

        
The Spending Binge That Wasn't
        
Earmarks and the Stimulus
        
The G.O.P.'s Spending Addiction
        
The Myth of Shrinking Government
        
Opinion Report: Exurbia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%) Congressional Budget Office; Federal budget; stimulus spending; Elmendorf, Douglas W; Federal Budget (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: BILL FLORES (78%); TIM HUELSKAMP (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Elmendorf, Douglas W

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



311 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Be Next to Call Nuclear Energy Indispensable?

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Japan's prime minister beseeches his people to allow nuclear plants to restart, even after Fukushima. Energy experts have been telling us for more than a year that the world had no non-nuclear option. 

 BODY:
Can't live with it. Can't live without it. 
In a highly unusual move for a Japanese politician, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda went on national television on Friday and told his fellow citizens that Japan could not maintain its economy or its current standard of living without restarting some of the nuclear reactors shuttered since the Fukushima disaster. 
"Mr. Noda said he would order the restart of two reactors at the Ohi nuclear plant in western Japan once he gets the final approval from the local Fukui prefectural government, which is expected to make a decision as early as next week," Martin Fackler reports.
"Cheap and reliable electricity are essential for supporting prosperous and decent livelihoods," Mr. Noda said. "Japanese society cannot function if we stop or try to do without nuclear power generation, which has supplied 30 percent of our electricity." 
Such personal appeals are unusual in Japan's often colorless political world and Mr. Noda's was seen here as recognition of how the restart issue has polarized his nation. While many Japanese are now deeply distrustful of their government's ability to oversee the politically powerful nuclear industry, others worry that power shortages could cost jobs and accelerate the nation's industrial decline.
The national trauma of Fukushima, and its enduring effects, go a long way to explaining the need for Mr. Noda's extraordinary intervention. Former Prime Minister Naoto Kan, premier during the Fukushima accident, testified last month that Japan could do without nuclear power.
However, global energy experts have been saying - in some cases, since the global call for a pull back from nuclear power post-Fukushima - that such calls were simply unrealistic. 
In the IHT's Energy Special Report last fall, Stephanie Cooke, editor of Energy Intelligence Group's Nuclear Intelligence Weekly, detailed how the nuclear drawback was likely to be more talk than real change. 
The world has no choice, given its growing energy needs, but to use nuclear power to meet some of that demand. "Forecasts from multiple sources, including the United Nations, nuclear industry executives, the U.S. Energy Information Administration and the International Energy Agency all point to a rise of at least 75 percent in nuclear power development by 2030," wrote Andrs Cala in an IHT Green Energy Special Report last year.
In particular, Angela Merkel's call that Germany cease all use of nuclear power has been pointed out as unworkable. And that criticism has intensified recently.
Who will be the next world leader to reverse the clarion call for a nuclear-free energy mix?

        
Europe Slips in World Influence Stakes
        
German Banks Catch the Euro Bug
        
Some Look to History as Time Runs Out for Europe
        
For Japanese Job Seekers, Overseas Study Can Be a Deal Killer
        
Hollande on European Leaders: They Talk a Lot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); POWER FAILURES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (60%) Fukushima; Germany; Japan; Noda; nuclear energy; Merkel, Angela; Noda, Yoshihiko; Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (Japan); Nuclear Energy; Energy; View From Asia

PERSON: YOSHIHIKO NODA (93%); ANGELA MERKEL (61%); NAOTO KAN (58%) Merkel, Angela; Noda, Yoshihiko

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (98%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Germany; Japan

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



312 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: 2012 May Lack Drama, but Not Significance

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: Though the current election season is producing very few goose bumps, the 2012 presidential race is shaping up to be more important to the direction of the country than the 2008 campaign was. 

 BODY:
 The current election is producing very few goose bumps, except perhaps among those who get all tingly when they view billionaire-financed attack ads. 
 The incumbent, who drew adoring throngs last time, cannot always fill a room this time. The challenger's risk-averse, carefully plotted strategy is a business plan worthy of a Harvard M.B.A. - and consciously the antithesis of the improvisational, let's-take-a-shot style of the war hero Republican nominee of four years ago.
 For sheer intensity and outsize characters, for a sense of history being made as it unfolded, the 2012 election has paled before the 2008 presidential race. However gratifying or dispiriting the possibility of winning or losing might be to partisans on both sides, this campaign has struggled, so far at least, to avoid feeling like a bitter anticlimax.
 But maybe we should all take another look, because 2012 is shaping up in many ways to be more important to the direction of the country than 2008 was.
 Unlike the last race, when both candidates competed for the center and the differences between the parties often seemed bridgeable, this campaign is asking voters to choose between starkly different paths. 
 Will the Keynesian principles that have guided economic policy for generations be affirmed or replaced by a belief that smaller government will make room for a more vibrant private sector? 
 Should Social Security, under pressure from the ever-growing costs of an aging population, remain a government-run, taxpayer-financed, guaranteed-benefit program? Or should it be reinvented to allow workers to invest in, and assume some of the risk for, their own retirements?
 Is it necessary for government to reshape the private health care system in order to bring insurance coverage to those who do not have it, or can tax incentives and other free-market principles take care of the problem? 
 Are banks and investment firms being stifled by over-regulation as they try to finance economic growth, or are they irresponsibly reverting back to the casino-like culture that brought us the last financial crisis?
 Are we heating our planet at a rate that demands substantial and immediate changes in the way we use energy, or is the evidence still insufficient to require that we assume the costs of altering the way we live?
 The list goes on, amounting to a huge ideological front in the combat over a long series of issues. And on many of those issues, time is fast running out for the nation to make up its mind about how to proceed, giving additional urgency to outcome this time around. 
 Republicans who believe that Democrats drove the United States perilously leftward during the first two years of the Obama presidency are increasingly adopting a winner-take-all attitude; they seek a mandate not to lead the nation back to a comprising center but to govern on their terms. Democrats increasingly see the stakes as encompassing not just the achievements of the Obama presidency but also the foundations of the social welfare system.
 "In the broad sweep of history, 2008 will probably rank as more significant for all the obvious reasons," said Matt Bennett, a co-founder of Third Way, a centrist Democratic advocacy group. "But in terms of the immediate impact on how the country is governed, 2012 will be more significant."
 Close presidential campaigns often produce hyperventilation about the stakes, if only as a way for candidates to stoke their respective bases. Throughout their long primary campaign, Mitt Romney and the other Republican candidates regularly cast this election as the most important in our lifetime or in generations.
 But this time, many conservatives say, they really believe it. Not since at least 1980, when Ronald Reagan ran to move the center of political gravity rightward, have conservatives been so convinced that the soul of the country is at stake. In their view, President Obama duped the country four years ago into believing he would govern from the center and then showed himself to be a determined leftist whose policies must be reversed.
 "American politics sees this kind of dynamic happen every few generations, and it seems to sneak up on us," said Anthony R. Dolan, who was Reagan's chief speechwriter and served as an adviser this political season to Newt Gingrich. "A president governs in an unexpected manner, and it becomes a defining moment in our political history."
 The stakes for conservatives this year could be greater than in 1980, Mr. Dolan said, if only because much of the case against President Jimmy Carter back then was about competence, whereas with Mr. Obama the case is about fundamental philosophy.
 "He's decided he's going to start a mission to change America and its bourgeois consciousness," Mr. Dolan said of Mr. Obama.
 Democrats have been slower to cast the election in terms of political apocalypse, but they too are coming around. They are trying to tie Mr. Romney to the conservative positions of the House Republicans - and Mr. Romney has helped them, especially with his endorsement of the budget-cutting plan being promoted by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
 "If you take Romney at his word, he's embraced the Ryan plan, which would reduce domestic discretionary spending by something like 60 percent over 10 years and represent a fundamental change not only to Medicare but to the entire domestic side of the government contract," Mr. Bennett said. "We would have a totally different government."
 Are you starting to feel some tingling?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); AGING TRENDS (64%); AGING (64%); HEALTH CARE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; On Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



313 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Romney Ad a Response to Obama Attack

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: A new TV ad by Mitt Romney responds to claims by the Obama campaign that Mr. Romney presided over one of "the worst economic records in the country" while governor of Massachusetts. 

 BODY:
Is Mitt Romney's campaign feeling the pressure from President Obama's attacks on his record as governor of Massachusetts? 
A new television ad by Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, responds directly to the attacks, claiming "the best jobs record in a decade" for Mr. Romney while he led the state.
"Romney reduced unemployment to just 4.7 percent," the narrator in the ad says. "He balanced every budget without raising taxes. He did it by bringing parties together to cut through gridlock. From Day 1 as president, Mitt Romney's strong leadership will make all the difference on jobs."
It was unclear, however, how much money Mr. Romney's campaign was spending on the ad, or how many states it will be running in. A spokeswoman for the campaign refused to disclose any details of the size or scope of the ad.
The ad follows a $10 million push in nine battleground states by Mr. Obama's campaign to attack the governor's record in Massachusetts.
The Obama ad, titled "Heard It Before," shows Mr. Romney saying that he speaks "the language of business." But the ad cites newspaper articles that suggest that Mr. Romney presided over one of "the worst economic records in the country."
"When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts lost 40,000 manufacturing jobs," the narrator says. "And fell to 47th in job creation. Fourth from the bottom."
The decision by Mr. Romney's Boston headquarters to respond directly to Mr. Obama's attacks suggests that the Republican team believes there is political danger in letting them go unanswered.
Mr. Romney's ad also continues the "Day One" theme that his campaign has been using in television commercials to try and show how a Republican administration would immediately be different from Mr. Obama's presidency. 
Aides to Mr. Romney believe that people have soured on Mr. Obama but want to know how Mr. Romney would be better. The ads are an effort to answer that question in a way that his advisers believe will help Mr. Romney get elected.

        
Romney and Obama to Appear on Country Music Award Show
        
Obama Campaign's New Attack on Romney's Record as Governor
        
Romney Unveils First Ad of General Election
        
Republican Candidates See Opening on Israel and Iran
        
New Ad Attacks Obama on Federal Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); COUNTRY MUSIC (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) mitt romney; Political Advertising; president obama; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



314 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Obama Prods Congress, Citing Euro Crisis

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The president urged Congress to "take another look" at his job-growth proposals and warned that Europe's problems were producing "headwinds" that make action at home critical. 

 BODY:
President Obama on Friday urged Congress to "take another look" at his proposals to spur job growth and warned that economic problems in Europe were producing "headwinds" that made Congressional action even more critical for the United States.
In a news conference, Mr. Obama said three times that private sector employers were doing well in America, saying that hiring among private companies was "fine" and proceeding at "a solid pace." His comments were quickly criticized by Republicans and others who fear that the recovery is stalling.
Mr. Obama, speaking from the White House briefing room, began by accusing lawmakers of standing in the way of his ideas to help state governments, increase construction jobs and aid homeowners.
"Right now, people in this town should be focused on doing everything we can to keep our recovery going," the president said. "It's critical we take the actions we can to strengthen the American economy now."
While he repeated that private companies were doing well when it came to hiring, Mr. Obama suggested that job losses among public workers at state and local governments were to blame for the slow recovery.
Mr. Obama said that "the private sector has been hiring at a solid pace over the last 27 months."
Later, in answer to questions, he added that "over all, the private sector has been doing a good job creating jobs - we've seen record profits in the corporate sector."
But, he added, "where we are seeing weaknesses in our economy had to do with state and local government."
Within minutes, Republicans mocked Mr. Obama for being out of touch with the economic difficulties that people face across the country.
Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio sent a Twitter message saying: "President Obama says 'the private sector is doing fine' -- millions out of work, 8%+ unemployment for 40 months #doingfine?"
Eric Fehrnstrom, a senior adviser to Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said on Twitter: "the private sector is 'doing fine'? President Obama is not only distorting his opponent's record, he's distorting his own."
Mr. Obama took a professorial tone while discussing the economic challenges facing the world. The president said his call for action by Congress was made more urgent by the financial crisis in Europe, where countries are struggling to deal with weakness in their banks and the deepening debt crisis in Greece.
"This is a global economy now, and what happens anywhere in the world can have an impact," he said. "The good news is there is a path out of this challenge. These decisions are fundamentally in the hands of Europe's leaders."
Mr. Obama said that he had sought to avoid lecturing the European leaders, but instead had tried to use the example of America's economy as evidence that there is a path out of their financial troubles.
But he said that employment by state and local governments had been slashed by nearly a half-million jobs, and he called on Congress to pass his proposals to funnel more money into the states to stave off further layoffs.
"There's work to be done," Mr. Obama said, referring to the construction industry, which he said had lost a million jobs in the last several years. "There are workers to do it. Let's put them back to work right now."
Mr. Obama's tone grew stern when he was asked to respond to accusations that his administration purposely leaked information about a terrorist "kill list" and cyberwarfare to make himself look tough in an election year.
"The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive," he said. "It's wrong. And people, I think, need to have a better sense of how I approach this office."
Without confirming the accuracy of the information - which was revealed in two articles in The New York Times last week - Mr. Obama said the such leaks deal with the safety of the American people, its military and its allies.
"We don't play with that," he said, vowing to investigate the leaks. "We consistently, whenever there is classified information that is put out into the public, we try to find out where that came from."

        
Live Blog: President Obama's News Conference
        
Obama to Meet With 11 European Leaders
        
Ask the President
        
Turkish TV Anchor Dons Blackface to Address Obama
        
Photos: Obama's First Overseas Trip as President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%) barack obama; Europe; news conference; The 44th President; The White House

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



315 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Romney Calls Obama 'Out of Touch' on Jobs

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney attacks President Obama's statement that the private sector is "doing fine." 

 BODY:
COUNCIL BLUFFS, IOWA -- Mitt Romney seized on President Obama's remark Friday that the private sector was "doing fine" by calling it an "extraordinary miscalculation and misunderstanding by a president who's out of touch.''
He repeated the phrase "out of touch" several times at a campaign event here in western Iowa, a key battleground state that Mr. Obama won in 2008 but where a recent NBC News/Marist poll showed a dead heat between the president and his presumptive Republican challenger. 
Addressing about 300 people, Mr. Romney pre-empted his standard stump speech to open with a barrage aimed at the president, who had spoken earlier at a news conference in Washington. Mr. Obama was contrasting the 4.3 million jobs created in the private sector in the last 27 months with the layoffs of public workers by states and cities.
"The private sector is doing fine,'' the president said. "Where we're seeing weaknesses in our economy have to do with state and local government.''
Mr. Romney ignored Mr. Obama's call for new jobs legislation. 
"Has there ever been an American president who is so far from reality?'' Mr. Romney asked, citing figures of his own -- 23 million Americans out of work or underemployed, a high number of home foreclosures and economic growth of 1.9 percent in the first quarter.
"For the president of the United States to stand up and say the private sector is doing fine,'' Mr. Romney said, "is going to go down in history as an extraordinary miscalculation and misunderstanding by a president who's out of touch.'' 
He promised, "We're going to take the country back and get American working again.''
Mr. Obama called his news conference to warn about the threat to the economy from the troubles in Europe and to urge Republicans in Congress to pass legislation providing more money to states and cities to hire firefighters, police officers and teachers, and to invest in roads and bridges.
It was clear Republicans regarded Mr. Obama's remark as a major gaffe and a gift that would keep on giving. The Republican National Committee alerted reporters that its chairman, Reince Priebus, would address the remark in an afternoon conference call.
The back-and-forth over jobs came after a weak jobs report last week for the month of May and the Obama campaign's highlighting of Mr. Romney's record of job creation as Massachusetts governor, when the state ranked 47th in the nation over his four years in office. 
Mr. Romney met with a group of Iowa farmers in a cafe before his rally. He mixed his usual self-deprecation with a bit of swagger. 
"There is some shot I might be elected president,'' he said. "There is more than a good shot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JOB CREATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); LAYOFFS (68%); FORECLOSURE (65%) The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



316 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Take Aim at Obama's 'Doing Fine' Comments

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Friday's exchange between President Obama and Mitt Romney was eerily similar to one between Mr. Obama and Senator John McCain of Arizona in 2008. 

 BODY:
Four years ago, President Obama eagerly seized on Senator John McCain's comment that the "fundamentals of the economy are strong" to paint his Republican rival as out of touch with a plummeting reality.
On Friday, Mr. Obama returned the favor.
Seeking to prod Congress to provide more money to help prevent layoffs from local and state governments, Mr. Obama stressed how much better off private companies are doing in terms of hiring.
"The private sector is doing fine," he said, immediately giving Mitt Romney the same kind of bumper-sticker sound bite that Mr. Obama used against Mr. McCain four years ago. 
The Republican machinery leaped into action almost instantly. Congressional leaders posted on Twitter. Party officials started sending out e-mails. And Mr. Romney, campaigning in Iowa, expressed outrage as soon as he could.
"He said the private sector is doing fine," Mr. Romney said. "Is he really that out of touch? I think he's defining what it means to be detached and out of touch with the American people. Has there ever been an American president who is so far from reality?"
The intensity of the Republican attack is a reminder of how quickly a comment can become a significant moment in a presidential campaign, especially in an Internet era that amplifies statements and strips them of context.
Mr. Romney's reaction to Mr. Obama's comments was an echo of the president's own political strategy four years ago, when he sought to use Mr. McCain's comment against him.
It was September 2008, even as the global economy was crashing, that Mr. McCain said the country's fundamentals were strong. Mr. McCain, then the Republican nominee, was trying to make a broader point about how strong the country was, and how it would recover. But Mr. Obama's campaign ignored the nuance.
"John McCain's stubborn insistence that the 'fundamentals of the economy are strong' shows that he is disturbingly out of touch with what's going in the lives of ordinary Americans," a spokesman said at the time. "Even as his own ads try to convince him that the economy is in crisis, apparently his 26 years in Washington have left him incapable of understanding that the policies he supports have created a historic economic crisis."
Friday's exchange between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney was eerily similar.
The White House called the short news conference on Friday morning to give Mr. Obama the chance to needle Republicans in Congress on their refusal to pass parts of his jobs package. He also spent some time commenting about the "headwinds" the country faces from the economic situation in Europe.
But Mr. Obama seemed intent on making another point. On three separate occasions during the news conference, he drew the distinction between private businesses, which he said are hiring, and local and state governments.
"The private sector is doing fine; where we are seeing weaknesses in our economy had to do with state and local government," Mr. Obama said. "If Republicans want to be helpful, if they really want to move forward and put people back to work they should be thinking about how do we help state and local government."
White House officials note that it is a point Mr. Obama has made before, and he has backup to support his point. Job losses among teachers, firefighters, police officers and other government jobs have dragged down the economy and kept unemployment high.
And many private companies have begun to hire again. Big corporations are reporting record profits.
But the political impact of his words, much like Mr. McCain's comments four years ago, are not likely to be wiped away with an explanation.
Within just a few hours, the Republican National Committee had already produced a Web video titled "Doing Fine" to highlight Mr. Obama's comments. It contrasts Mr. Obama's statement to recent grim headlines about the economy stalling. The R.N.C. video is virtually identical to an ad that Mr. Obama ran against Mr. McCain in 2008.
"How can President Obama fix our economy," it asks, "if he doesn't understand what's broken."
A television advertisement can't be far behind. 
Related: Obama Backs Away From 'Fine' Comment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%) McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Elections

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%) McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



317 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Obama Backs Away From 'Fine' Comment

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama on Friday afternoon backed away from his earlier comments that the "private sector is doing fine," telling reporters that he does not believe that the economy is doing fine. 

 BODY:
President Obama on Friday afternoon backed away from his earlier comments that the "private sector is doing fine," telling reporters that he does not believe the economy is doing fine.
"That's precisely why I asked Congress to start taking some steps that can make a difference," Mr. Obama said in brief remarks to reporters during a meeting with the visiting Philippines president.
Republicans had seized on comments Mr. Obama made during an earlier news conference, in which he repeatedly made the point that hiring at private businesses is doing well, while hiring by state and local government is not.
"The private sector is doing fine," Mr. Obama said at the news conference.
But by later in the day, Mr. Obama had decided to emphasize that he does not believe that the overall economy is doing fine, as Republicans were trying to suggest.
"Listen, it is absolutely clear the economy is not doing fine," he said. He suggested that Republicans had misstated his words from earlier in the day.
"I think if you look at what I said this morning, what I've been saying consistently over the last year, we've actually seen some good momentum in the private sector," he said. "There's been 4.3 million jobs created, 800,000 this year alone, record corporate profits."
He added: "And so that has not been the biggest drag on the economy."
Mr. Obama said the economy "needs to be strengthened," adding that "I believe that there are a lot of Americans who are hurting right now, which is what I've been saying for the last year, two years, three years, what I've been saying since I came into office."

        
Obama Campaign's New Attack on Romney's Record as Governor
        
Romney's Unemployment Rate Dilemma
        
Obama vs. Romney: Battle of the Fairness Doctrines
        
After a Weak Jobs Report, Romney Goes on the Attack
        
During Factory Visit, Obama Hails Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%) economy; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



318 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Hit Romney on 'Message of Wisconsin' Comments

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Democrats sought to turn the tables on Mitt Romney by seizing on comments he made in Iowa that suggested the country doesn't need more firefighters, police or teachers. 

 BODY:

Democrats sought to turn the tables on Mitt Romney Friday afternoon by seizing on comments he made in Iowa that suggested the country doesn't need more firefighters, police or teachers.
Mr. Romney was responding to President Obama's earlier remarks about the private economy's being "fine." In doing so, Mr. Romney dismissed Mr. Obama's call for more aid to state and local governments.
"He wants another stimulus, he wants to hire more government workers," Mr. Romney said of Mr. Obama. "He says we need more fireman, more policeman, more teachers. Did he not get the message of Wisconsin? The American people did. It's time for us to cut back on government and help the American people."
Democrats pounced on the comment, saying it proved that Mr. Romney would like to eliminate jobs for teachers, firefighters and police officers.
"Could Mitt Romney be any more disconnected from the concerns of middle-class Americans?" said R.T. Rybak, the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "To suggest that police, firefighters and teachers aren't helping the American people and aren't vital to our communities shows that he has no clue what's going on in the real world."
Mr. Rybak added: "Mitt Romney's assertion that the American people don't benefit from firemen, policemen and teachers is so detached from reality I did a double take - I had to check twice to be sure he had actually said it."
The rapid response team for the Democratic National Committee sent out numerous statements Friday afternoon, clearly intended to try to change the subject. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, issued a statement echoing the party response.
"We knew Mitt Romney liked firing people, but we didn't know that included firefighters and cops," Mr. Schumer said. "Middle-class voters already distrust Mitt Romney for being out-of-touch and uncaring about regular folks. Bragging about wanting to give pink slips to first responders only cements that perception."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%) Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Elections

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) Democratic Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



319 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Rationing Life-Years

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Health care costs continue to soar, yet we do not yet seem to have found a ceiling at which Americans are ready to start setting boundaries on what care is available to whom, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
My previous post, "The Fork in the Road for Health Care," elicited a lively exchange of thoughtful commentary. While many Americans have always pretended that the United States could avoid rationing of health care, one way or another we have tacitly accepted such rationing all along, and we will do it with even more vigor in the future. 
The discussion of my post reminded me of a fascinating column written in 2009 by N. Gregory Mankiw. He noted that he takes a statin pill every morning and that a physician "estimated that statins cost $150,000 for each year of life saved." Musing whether the payoff was worth that much money, Professor Mankiw sought insight in the following hypothetical: 
Imagine that someone invented a pill even better than the one I take. Let's call it the Dorian Gray pill, after the Oscar Wilde character. Every day that you take the Dorian Gray, you will not die, get sick or even age. Absolutely guaranteed. The catch? A year's supply costs $150,000.

Anyone who is able to afford this new treatment can live forever. Certainly, Bill Gates can afford it. Most likely, thousands of upper-income Americans would gladly shell out $150,000 a year for immortality.
Most Americans, however, would not be so lucky. Because the price of these new pills well exceeds average income, it would be impossible to provide them for everyone, even if all the economy's resources were devoted to producing Dorian Gray tablets. 
So here is the hard question: How should we, as a society, decide who gets the benefits of this medical breakthrough? Are we going to be health care egalitarians and try to prohibit Bill Gates from using his wealth to outlive Joe Sixpack? Or are we going to learn to live (and die) with vast differences in health outcomes? Is there a middle way?
With a population of 313,693,442 (as of June 7), an annual supply of Dorian Gray pills for every living American would cost about $47 trillion a year, or more than three times our annual gross domestic product. So even if we asked Wall Street to liquidate America entirely by selling all of its assets to China at, say, five to six times the G.D.P. of the United States, the annual cost of universal access to the pill would soon eat up even these proceeds. Try as we might, in Professor Mankiw's hypothetical world we could not avoid rationing the pill openly.
But my esteemed colleague undoubtedly knew that his Dorian Gray pill was not really comparable to his statin pill or any expensive medical technology now in sight. He presumably wanted to stretch the mind with an extreme hypothetical. 
The Dorian Gray pill would buy with certainty one added year of life for a certain price of $150,000. That purchase could be repeated ad infinitum. By contrast, taking a statin pill daily is a gamble that costs much, much less than $150,000 a year per person. 
From the viewpoint of the individual, the payoff to this gamble is highly uncertain - and not every living American needs statins every year.
Professor Mankiw suggests that the mathematically expected payoff to this gamble is one life-year at an expected cost of $150,000 worth of pills. Alternatively, a large insurance pool that spent that $150,000 on statins would save, on average, only the equivalent of one life-year, with the added life span accruing only to a few members of the entire pool of members. 
Let me hasten to add that I do not know whether that actually is the expected cost-effectiveness ratio for statins (where the "cost-effectiveness ratio" is defined as the cost per unit of health care outcome achieved - here one life-year).
I wish Professor Mankiw had not taken his side trip into fantasyland and had written more instead on the good here-and-now question he raised on the statin therapy, namely: Is taking the pill worth it? 
He answers this rhetorical question thus:
Now you might be tempted to say, "Of course it is." Most people would prefer to avoid an early death. If the wonders of modern science might put off the inevitable for a while longer, why not give it a shot?
And that is, indeed, how I thought about the decision when my doctor recommended the treatment. One thing I did not consider was the price. Like most consumers of health care, I was insulated from economic concerns. I knew that the insurance company - and, indirectly, all its policyholders - would pick up most of the tab. This arrangement, encouraged by the tax system, ensures that I get the benefit of the pills while paying little of the extra costs they generate.
An optimist might hope that my doctor, or someone higher up in the health care hierarchy, made a rational cost-benefit calculation on society's behalf. To figure out whether my treatment makes sense, one would have to weigh the cost of the drug against the benefit of an extended life. And to do that, one would have to put a dollar value on my life - the kind of calculation that makes everyone but economists squirm.
It is fair to wonder whether Professor Mankiw, a full professor of economics at Harvard and the author of what might be the most popular textbook in introductory economics, really needs insurance coverage as an inducement to take statins. I think not. 
But for many families in the lower half of the nation's income distribution, third-party payment would make the difference. And to the extent that such third-party payment is tax-financed, the question arises whether there is a maximum price above which future Americans situated further up in the income distribution will not be willing to buy additional life-years for their poorer fellow Americans, especially if the latter lead lifestyles that detract from good health. 
I raised that question in an earlier post. What do readers of this post think?

        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
Wealth, Spending and the Economy
        
The Rise of Part-Time Work
        
The Sequester and Fiscal Policy
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DRUG PRICES (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Mankiw, N Gregory; United States Economy; Today's Economist

PERSON: Mankiw, N Gregory

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



320 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2012

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Egyptians Warned Not to Talk to Foreigners. Really.

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: An advertisement on Egyptian television this week warned a talkative public not to open up to foreign visitors, in case their new friends turn out to be spies. 

 BODY:
Updated | Saturday, 1:42 p.m. CAIRO - An advertisement broadcast on Egyptian television this week warned a talkative public not to open up to foreign visitors, in case their new friends turn out to be spies seeking to undermine the state.
The television commercial, reportedly broadcast on both state-controlled and private channels with no indication of who was behind it, struck several Egyptian observers as a heavy-handed attempt to cast the dissatisfaction of many young revolutionaries with Egypt's halting transition and the military council that still holds power as unpatriotic. 
A copy of the public service announcement posted on YouTube with a rough English translation shows three young Egyptian activists in a cafe freely sharing their discontent over the nation's economic and political problems with a mysterious foreigner, who takes notes on a mobile phone as ominous music swells.
As the Cairene blogger who writes as Zeinobia explains, the ad seems to evoke the case of Ilan Grapel, an Israeli-American who was detained by Egyptian authorities last year after appearing in Tahrir Square and accused of spying for Israel by "inciting sedition, spreading rumors and urging protesters toward friction with the armed forces and to commit acts of violence."
The blogger also noted that the campaign apparently features a second ad, in which the same foreboding narration warns Egyptians not to share information online, on the chance it becomes used by foreign spies against Egypt.
What led the producers of the advertisements to broadcast them now, without context or explanation, puzzled viewers, but the paranoid tone, and the depiction of disgruntled young people and Internet activists as unwitting dupes of a foreign power, led to some speculation that Egypt's still-powerful intelligence service might have been responsible.
Think the TV ad about foreign spies actually says a lot about what Egyptian intelligence agencies do: listen to mundane convos at cafes.
- Erin Cunningham (@erinmcunningham)8 Jun 12
Shahira Amin, a former state-television journalist who resigned during the 2011 revolution to protest restrictions on independent reporting, reported on Friday that an unnamed source told her that the advertisments were provided to the channels by the electoral body running Egypt's presidential election. 
If the commission is behind the ads, the campaign could be an attempt to stifle anger by discouraging Egyptians from voicing dissatisfaction online or to foreign reporters, a week before the final round of voting, which features two candidates detested by many of the activists who made Egypt's revolution. The judges on the electoral panel have been heavily criticized in recent weeks for their decision to allow Hosni Mubarak's last prime minister to compete in the election, despite a law specifically banning former senior officials from taking part in the race to succeed him.
As several bloggers also pointed out, the ads sowing suspicion of foreign visitors are also a curious way to make tourists, whose money is central to the Egyptian economy, feel welcome.
Tourism advocacy group: if the Mossad wanted to destroy Egypt's tourism, they wouldn't do anything better than the "spies" ad on state TV.
- The Big Pharaoh (@TheBigPharaoh)8 Jun 12
 Update: Following a wave of ridicule and criticism of the advertising campaign warning Egyptians to be wary of befriending foreigners armed with mobile phones, the president of Egyptian state television told Agence France-Presse that the ad was withdrawn from circulation on Friday night and "will be revised."
Ali Abderrahman, who oversees the two state channels that broadcast the ad this week, said the commercial was pulled "because we were concerned that it was being misunderstood." He told the French news agency: "We are a country that aspires to raise the number of foreign visitors. The ad will be revised so it does not appear as if it is incitement against foreigners."

        
Updates on a Second 'Day of Rage' in Egypt
        
Street-Level Views of Protests in Cairo to Commemorate 2 Years of Revolution
        
Tear Gas in Tahrir Two Years After Revolution's Start
        
Activists Tackle Sexual Harassment in Tahrir
        
Egyptians Explain Their Return to the Streets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ESPIONAGE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (87%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) Advertising and Marketing; Cairo (Egypt); Egypt; Espionage and Intelligence Services; Grapel, Ilan; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Mossad; Mubarak, Hosni; Political Advertising; Tahrir Square (Cairo); Middle East; News; The Egyptian Election; world

ORGANIZATION: Mossad

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (78%) Grapel, Ilan; Mubarak, Hosni

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%) EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) Cairo (Egypt); Egypt; Tahrir Square (Cairo)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



321 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Where Overdoses Start on the Prescription Pad

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
ALBUQUERQUE -- Deep in the South Valley neighborhood, in a cramped medical clinic room adorned with candles and crucifixes, a fresh-faced man who called himself Justin G. told the other addicts how he had gotten hooked.
''This girl I was hanging out with had a prescription for Percocets. I would take them, and next thing you know I'm buying them,'' the man recalled. ''Then I got a good deal on some OxyContins. But they stopped making those. That's when I started doing heroin.''
For years now, New Mexico has wrestled with high rates of poverty, drunken-driving deaths and substance abuse -- particularly heroin addiction, which has been passed down through generations in the state's northern, rural reaches. But over the past few years, a new affliction has hammered New Mexico: prescription drug overdoses. 
A report released last month by the state's Health Department found that the drug overdose death rate in New Mexico jumped more than 60 percent between 2001 and 2010.
Public health officials here say the spike is being driven primarily by prescription opioids -- painkillers like oxycodone, morphine and methadone -- whose sales in the state rose 131 percent during the same period. In New Mexico, the overdose death rate from prescription drugs now outstrips that from illegal drugs, the report found.
Over the last decade, deaths from prescription drug overdoses have risen to unprecedented levels throughout the country, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
But medical experts and drug treatment advocates say the problem has become especially pronounced here, where resources have long been focused on other problems. In November, a report from the C.D.C. found that New Mexico had the nation's highest overall drug overdose death rate.
''As the availability of prescription opioids have increased in New Mexico, so has the overdose death rate. It's added a new layer to what we have to deal with,'' said Dr. Michael Landen, the deputy state epidemiologist. ''It's also a new population that is involved with prescription-drug deaths. It's much broader.''
Prescription opioid addiction in New Mexico has carved through racial and economic barriers over the past few years, in Albuquerque from the dusty streets of the South Valley to the neatly pruned homes of Northeast Heights.
''Every young person I've talked to that's using heroin always started with pills,'' said Jennifer Weiss, president of the Heroin Awareness Committee, formed in 2010 to curb opiate addiction in New Mexico. ''It's just been progressively getting worse.''
Ms. Weiss's own son, Cameron, a wrestler and football player at La Cueva High School, a local sports powerhouse, became addicted to prescription painkillers after a series of injuries.
Eventually, Cameron told his mother that he had turned to heroin, which was easier to get, prompting Ms. Weiss to start the drug awareness group. Last August, she found him lying on the edge of his bed, dead from a heroin overdose at 18.
''Once they get addicted, they eventually can't afford the pills anymore. Once you run out of your supply, it makes the most economic sense to start using heroin,'' Ms. Weiss said.
Like other states, including Washington and New York, New Mexico has tried to exercise tighter control over the distribution of painkillers.
During the past legislative session, a bill that would have limited the number of opiate pain relievers prescribed to a patient failed to pass, after opposition from some doctors and nurses, who argued that the legislation would harm seriously ill patients.
Dr. Landen said New Mexico's medical licensing boards were considering some restrictions of their own, like requiring physicians to use the state's prescription drug database in certain instances to prevent patients from ''doctor shopping'' for medicine.
Still, there is a concern that creating too many restrictions could push patients to the streets for drugs. And beyond tightening the rules, the solution, some say, ultimately lies with more treatment facilities. Ms. Weiss's group recently received a $100,000 contract from the City of Albuquerque to plan an adolescent treatment center for opiate addiction.
''There is such a gap in treatment resources in New Mexico in particular, that those of us who have been doing this have pretty much been flooded since Day 1,'' said Dr. Andru Zeller, who helped start the Casa de Salud Family Medical Office in Albuquerque in 2004.
Of the 175 patients the clinic treats, about half are opiate pill addicts, Dr. Zeller said. They run the gamut from transients to doctors and counselors.
Patients here are typically treated with dosages of Suboxone, a less stimulating opiate that helps quiet the craving for pain pills and heroin -- along with acupuncture, reiki (which involves placing a practitioner's hands on various body areas to cure ailments) and traditional Mexican healing practices.
On a recent afternoon, three practitioners used reiki and acupuncture to treat a group of addicts, the patients' feet and arms jerking as they tried to relax. Soon the addicts were fast asleep. Later in the week, there would be another session, a requirement here if patients want their dose of Suboxone. Until then, the group would have to battle their urges on their own.
''I definitely feel less anxious,'' said Justin G., after a treatment.
He stepped outside in the burning South Valley sun, the afternoon rush just starting to pick up. He took a deep breath and headed off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Weiss, above, at her home in Albuquerque, formed the Heroin Awareness Committee in 2010. Her 18-year-old son, Cameron, died of an overdose in 2011. Below, from left, one of Cameron Weiss's athletic medals, Gloria Crawley at Casa de Salud in Albuquerque and a reiki treatment there.(A10)
Casa de Salud offers holistic programs to battle addiction. New Mexico has the nation's highest rate per capita of overdose deaths.
 Lorraine Cordova of Casa de Salud administers a form of acupuncture used specifically in the treatment of opiate addiction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); HEROIN (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); ANALGESICS (77%); WRESTLING (75%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); ANESTHETICS (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (72%); POVERTY RATES (69%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (66%); ATHLETES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (94%) NEW MEXICO, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



322 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Suicides Outpacing War Deaths For Troops

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The suicide rate among the nation's active-duty military personnel has spiked this year, eclipsing the number of troops dying in battle and on pace to set a record annual high since the start of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan more than a decade ago, the Pentagon said Friday. 
Suicides have increased even as the United States military has withdrawn from Iraq and stepped up efforts to provide mental health, drug and alcohol, and financial counseling services.
The military said Friday that there had been 154 suicides among active-duty troops through Thursday, a rate of nearly one each day this year. The figures were first reported this week by The Associated Press.
That number represents an 18 percent increase over the 130 active-duty military suicides for the same period in 2011. There were 123 suicides from January to early June in 2010, and 133 during that period in 2009, the Pentagon said.
By contrast, there were 124 American military fatalities in Afghanistan as of June 1 this year, according to the Pentagon.
Suicide rates of military personnel and combat veterans have risen sharply since 2005, as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan intensified. Recently, the Pentagon established a Defense Suicide Prevention Office.
On Friday, Cynthia Smith, a Defense Department spokeswoman, said the Pentagon had sought to remind commanders that those who seek counseling should not be stigmatized.
''This is a troubling issue, and we are committed to getting our service members the help they need,'' she said. ''I want to emphasize that getting help is not a sign of weakness; it is a sign of strength.''
In a letter to military commanders last month, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said that ''suicide prevention is a leadership responsibility,'' and added, ''Commanders and supervisors cannot tolerate any actions that belittle, haze, humiliate or ostracize any individual, especially those who require or are responsibly seeking professional services.''
But veterans' groups said Friday that the Pentagon had not done enough to moderate the tremendous stress under which combat troops live, including coping with multiple deployments.
''It is clear that the military, at the level of the platoon, the company and the battalion, that these things are not being addressed on a compassionate and understanding basis,'' said Bruce Parry, chairman of the Coalition of Veterans Organizations, a group based in Illinois. ''They need to understand on a much deeper level the trauma the troops are facing.''
Paul Rieckhoff, executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, called suicides among active-duty military personnel ''the tip of the iceberg.'' He cited a survey the group conducted this year among its 160,000 members that found that 37 percent knew someone who had committed suicide.
Mr. Rieckhoff attributed the rise in military suicides to too few qualified mental health professionals, aggravated by the stigma of receiving counseling and further compounded by family stresses and financial problems. The unemployment rate among military families is a particular problem, he said.
''They are thinking about combat, yeah, but they are also thinking about their wives and kids back home,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); SUICIDE (92%); IRAQ WAR (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); VETERANS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (76%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



323 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: 9/11 Health Fund Given Clearance To Cover Cancer

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Susan C. Beachy contributed research.

 BODY:
A federal health official's ruling has cleared the way for 50 different types of cancer to be added to the list of sicknesses covered by a $4.3 billion fund set up to compensate and treat people exposed to the toxic smoke, dust and fumes in the months after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
The decision, released on Friday, came as a vindication for hundreds and perhaps thousands of people who have claimed -- often in the face of resistance from public health officials -- that their cancers were caused by their exposure to the dust cloud and debris thrown up by the attacks.
It will allow not only rescue workers but also volunteers, residents, schoolchildren and passers-by to apply for compensation and treatment for cancers developed in the aftermath of the attacks. The cancers will not be officially added to the list of covered illnesses until after a period of public comment and review that could last several months. 
The decision, by Dr. John Howard, director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, comes despite a current absence of evidence linking the attack to cancer, causing some skepticism among epidemiologists. It also reduces the amount of money for people suffering from ailments more conclusively linked to the Sept. 11 attacks, namely lung and other respiratory sicknesses.
And it poses a number of logistical challenges, since it will be difficult if not impossible to separate people who developed cancer as a result of ground zero from those who would have gotten the disease anyway, and because many cancer diagnoses are likely to be made years after the deadline for applying for compensation passes in 2016.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York and a primary sponsor of the 2010 law that set up the fund, said that she recognized those concerns but that the decision was the correct one. ''I think it's an important statement that the country's going to take care of the workers and people who are there to save the lives of the people of the city,'' she said.
One cancer patient who typifies the fraught nature of the decision, Ernest K. Matthews, 62, said he developed lung cancer in 2008 and had part of his right lung cut out. He was part of a crew that cleaned elevators for the Merrill Lynch building next to ground zero after the terrorist attack. He was also a smoker.
But he said he had been able to walk up six flights of stairs carrying a heavy tool bag without catching his breath before Sept. 11. He developed breathing problems soon after, he said.
''It's a good day,'' Mr. Matthews said Friday. ''Look at all the people that suffered and lost their lives, sacrificing for the cleanup. It took so long for them to decide to help the people that were suffering.''
Dr. Howard's decision represented an about-face from assurances by the federal government immediately after the terrorist attacks that there was nothing in the air to be worried about. In July 2011, Dr. Howard himself said there was not enough scientific or medical evidence to link cancer to Sept. 11.
But in a lengthy report explaining his decision, Dr. Howard said that a New York Fire Department study published last fall in the British medical journal The Lancet, which showed that firefighters exposed to ground zero toxic substances had about 20 percent higher rate of cancer than firefighters who were not exposed, had provided a strong foundation for a conclusion that some cancers had been caused by exposure to the World Trade Center debris.
Beyond the Lancet study, he said, he had relied on recommendations made in late March by a scientific and technical advisory committee consisting of experts from the fields of cancer, environmental medicine, toxicology and epidemiology as well as neighborhood activists and union officials. He fully adopted the committee's recommendation that 14 broad categories of cancer, encompassing 50 specific types, should be deemed as related to the attacks.
Among the cancers Dr. Howard approved are some of the most common, including lung, breast, colon, trachea, esophageal, kidney, bladder, skin, thyroid, blood and ovarian cancers. Dr. Howard also approved childhood cancers, which are relatively rare, because children are more susceptible to toxic substances.
People with covered cancers who lived, worked or attended school in Lower Manhattan -- generally the area below Canal Street -- between Sept. 11, 2001, and May 30, 2002, would be able to apply for compensation for their economic losses, pain and suffering. Until the decision on Friday, the only ailments approved for compensation were mainly respiratory and digestive ones. Survivors of patients who have died, as well as people caught in the dust cloud downtown on the day of the attack, may also apply.
The amount of compensation will depend on the severity of the illness and duration of exposure, as proven by records like employment or housing documents, or city personnel records for fire, police and other public workers.
The new rules would apply to Pentagon and Shanksville, Pa., responders as well, and it allows those cancer patients to tap into a treatment fund to pay for medical costs not covered by insurance.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has consistently deferred to scientific rulings on health hazards at ground zero, said that his administration had called for periodic reviews of the medical evidence on cancer, and that the decision was ''an important step.''
The advisory committee had said that 70 known or potential carcinogens, including asbestos, arsenic and formaldehyde, had been found in the smoke, dust and fumes from the disaster, that 15 of those were known to cause cancer in humans, and that 37 were ''reasonably anticipated'' to cause cancer.
The advisory committee considered but rejected, by a 14-to-3 vote, the notion of adding all cancers to the list. It explicitly rejected pancreas, brain and prostate cancers, for various reasons. The committee could meet again to discuss other potential additions to the list.
The broad sweep of the committee's recommendation raised some eyebrows among epidemiologists, several of whom have said that it appeared the committee was appealing to societal concerns that the cancer patients not be left out of the fund.
''Clearly this was a difficult decision, and primarily motivated by concern for a sympathetic population,'' said Dr. Alfred I. Neugut, an oncologist and professor of epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia. ''The scientific evidence currently is certainly weak; whether future evidence bears out the wisdom of this decision will have to be seen.''
Dr. Howard made a nod toward a concern of some epidemiologists that because cancer was a common disease, it would be hard to distinguish who got cancer because of Sept. 11 from those who did not. He also said that hard scientific data conclusively linking Sept. 11 to cancer might take years to obtain.
''Requiring evidence of positive associations from studies of 9/11-exposed populations exclusively does not serve the best interests'' of the patients, he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SMOKING (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); LUNG CANCER (78%); CARCINOGENS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); CHILDREN (69%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



324 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Declines as Imports Fall Sharply

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The nation's trade deficit shrank in April, the Commerce Department said on Friday, but only because a big drop in imports offset the first decline in exports in five months. 
The agency said that the trade deficit narrowed 4.9 percent in April, to $50.1 billion.
Exports, which hit a record the previous month, fell 0.8 percent, to $182.9 billion. Sales of everything from commercial jetliners to industrial machinery declined.
Imports, which also set a record in March, dropped an even faster 1.7 percent, to $233 billion.
The trade gap remains wide and could affect growth in the April-to-June quarter. A wider trade gap slows growth because it means the United States is spending more on foreign-made products than it is taking in from sales of goods made in the United States.
The slip in exports is especially troublesome because it shows the weaker global economy is damping demand for American-made goods. Export sales declined to Europe, China and Brazil.
''With growth in Asia cooling, Europe in recession and the dollar strengthening, exports are likely in for another rough ride over the next year,'' said James Marple, senior economist at TD Economics.
American exports to the 27 nations in the European Union dropped 11.1 percent in April. Europe's debt crisis has worsened in recent months and many economists say the region is in a recession. Europe accounts for almost one-fifth of exports from the United States.
Growth has also slowed in emerging markets. Exports to Brazil fell 8.2 percent in April, for example.
The United States deficit with China increased to $24.6 billion in April. This year's deficit is running 11.9 percent ahead of last year, when the imbalance hit a record $295.4 billion, which was also the record high for a single country.
Mr. Marple noted that the dollar's strength could benefit American consumers, who are also paying less for gasoline. A stronger dollar makes imports cheaper while making exports more expensive in other countries.
So far this year, the trade deficit, the difference between imports and exports, is running at an annual rate of $603 billion, up 7.7 percent from last year's total imbalance of $559.9 billion.
For April, the United States ran a $1.8 billion trade deficit with South Korea, three times the size of the March deficit. Imports from South Korea jumped 14.7 percent to $5.5 billion, the highest on record. United States exports to South Korea fell 12.3 percent to $3.7 billion.
Separately, the Commerce Department said wholesale businesses increased their stockpiles at a faster rate in April, responding to a strong gain in sales.
The Commerce Department said stockpiles grew 0.6 percent at the wholesale level in April, double the March gain. Sales by wholesale businesses jumped 1.1 percent in April, nearly three times the March sales gain.
Stockpiles at the wholesale level stood at $483.5 billion in April. That's 25.6 percent above the postrecession low of $384.9 billion in September 2009.
The increase in wholesale inventories was bigger than economists had forecast. That could signal that inventory growth will pick up and increase economic growth in the April-June quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loading a ship in Oakland, Calif. The trade deficit fell 4.9 percent in April, but exports were down for the first time in five months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN JAMES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



325 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: In Era of Cheap Money, Consumers Are Shut Out

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER and TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Michael Shreve, a 57-year-old science teacher in Marysville, Wash., has watched helplessly as mortgage rates have fallen. He said that despite his stellar credit score, no bank had been willing to let him trade in his 6.35 percent 30-year mortgage because his house was now worth less than when he bought it.
''At some point,'' he said, interest rates are going to go up again, ''and I should have been able to get those low rates. It's not fair.''
As interest rates have been dropping to new lows seemingly by the week, American companies have been taking advantage of the cheap borrowing costs, but consumers have been largely left on the sidelines. 
New data this week from the Federal Reserve shows that in the first quarter of this year, American businesses were taking on new debt at the fastest rate since the financial crisis in 2008. American households, though, were heading in the opposite direction, increasingly shedding debt.
And as in the case of Mr. Shreve, the lack of borrowing by American families was not always by choice. Another recent Fed report shows that while more consumers are interested in buying homes or refinancing existing mortgages, banks remain hesitant to extend credit to them.
Consumers are also getting squeezed on the investing front. Wary of the volatile financial markets and worried about the continued weakness in the economy, they have been putting more money into ordinary savings accounts, the new data shows. But those accounts are paying an average of 0.1 percent, according to Bankrate.com.
''There's definitely winners and losers in this kind of extremely low interest rate environment,'' said Ed Yardeni, the president of Yardeni Research. ''In this case, any borrower that has access to the capital markets and doesn't have to fill out a loan application at a bank is definitely going to have a tremendous advantage.''
Of course, the declining debt load of households is not necessarily bad. Many economists see it as a welcome shift from the borrowing binge that helped cause the financial crisis, and the Fed data shows that the lack of new debt has freed consumers up to spend more.
''What Americans have learned is that they can live with the old house,'' said Allen Sinai, the chief executive of Decision Economics. ''Why take on debt and obligate yourself? They are unencumbered more than ever before.''
But the new data underscores the polarizing impact of the central bank's policy of pushing down interest rates on different segments of the American economy. While low rates are supposed to encourage Americans to take more risks, ordinary Americans have been unwilling or unable to take advantage of them.
Policy makers have worried that, until Americans do show a willingness to borrow, the housing market is unlikely to get back on a solid footing. Through last year, the rate at which Americans were shedding debt was slowing, but in the first quarter it began to speed up again, ticking up 0.4 percent, the new Fed data showed. American businesses, by contrast, increased their debt by 5.2 percent in the first quarter.
Some of the money borrowed by American corporations has trickled down to consumers through new hiring, increased stock prices and higher corporate tax payments. But the latest data indicates that businesses continue to use their borrowed money to pay back older, more expensive loans or to bolster their cashlike holdings, which rose to $1.7 trillion in the most recent quarter.
Not all types of consumer debt are in decline. As education costs rise, the amount of outstanding student loans rose in each of the first five months of the year, Equifax data analyzed by Moody's Analytics showed. Lending to buy cars has also been heading upward, though with a distinct note of caution.
Alan Starling, who owns three car dealerships in the Orlando, Fla., area, said he had watched consumer behavior evolve over the last several years. ''Cautious,'' he said. ''That is the word.''
Consumers coming to Mr. Starling are asking more questions about the fuel efficiency of the cars and worrying more about the monthly payments, he said.
''People are much more conscious of debt and not getting yourself overextended,'' Mr. Starling said. He added that he drove a Chevy Volt and spent only about $25 a month on gas.
The biggest category of household debt by far is residential real estate, and debt in that sector has continued to drop for several reasons. Foreclosures and defaults have erased some of the obligations, and prospective home buyers are being held back, in part, by the restraint of the banks. A Fed survey of senior loan officers at American banks in April indicated that most banks had kept lending standards the same, or tightened them somewhat, even with a steady or rising demand for mortgages. About two-thirds of mortgage activity has been for refinancing existing loans, not for new mortgages, according to Guy Cecala, publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance.
''The real problem is that relatively few borrowers meet the tougher standards of today even if they could benefit from refinancing, and that is the frustration,'' said Mr. Cecala.
He added that the last time there was more normal underwriting, in 2003, there was nearly $4 trillion in total mortgage originations, which includes refinancing and new purchases. Last year, with tougher underwriting and lower rates, total originations were $1.4 trillion.
In general, though, consumers' anxiety about taking on new risks is driving many household decisions.
Joseph Butler, a retired banker in Bernice, La., said that after seeing the trouble that debt caused during the financial crisis, taking on loans or any other kind of risk seemed foolish. Mr. Butler said he was now entirely out of financial investments and kept all his money in a savings account at his local bank, earning less than 1 percent a year.
''I want to hunker down on what I've got,'' he said.
The Fed survey suggests that even in the first quarter, when stock prices were shooting up, American households sold stocks and put money in assets like insured savings accounts and Treasury bonds. Falling interest rates mean these investments earn increasingly paltry returns, but they provide a degree of security.
''The retail customer right now is saying, 'I just don't want to lose any money,' '' said Keith Leggett, the chief economist at the American Bankers Association.
One of the few financial investments that ordinary Americans have been willing to make is in corporate bonds. Data from the Investment Company Institute showed that Americans had put $136 billion into corporate bond funds in the first five months of the year. This has, of course, made borrowing even easier for American corporations.
''The big beneficiaries have been the corporations,'' Mr. Yardeni said. ''They have been raising money they don't even need.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan Starling, owner of three car dealerships, said consumers were still leery of taking on loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Growth/decline in debt: Since the recession, borrowing by businesses has resumed while consumers continue to reduce their debt.(Source: Federal Reserve, via Haver Analytics) (B1)
 Rates Go Lower and Lower (Source: Federal Reserve, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, via Haver Analytics) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FAMILY (72%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



326 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Income and Wealth Are Down in U.S.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
AMERICANS are used to recessions, but they are also used to relatively fast recoveries.
Now, however, is the first time in more than half a century that the average American is both earning less and worth less than four years earlier, at least after inflation is factored in.
The genesis of that fall was, of course, the financial crisis and the sharp decline in the value of homes, the principal asset of most Americans, followed by the sharp drop in stock prices. The crisis led to stubbornly high unemployment that cut income for many Americans and made wage increases harder to obtain for those who did hold on to their jobs. 
The Federal Reserve estimated this week that the value of owner-occupied real estate rose 2.3 percent in the first quarter of this year, the first such increase since 2010. Even with that gain, those homes are now estimated to be worth $16.4 trillion, 28 percent below the peak set in 2006. Some of that reduction is caused by the fact that fewer Americans now own their homes, but much of it reflects lower values.
Total household net worth rose 4.7 percent to $62.9 trillion in the quarter but was still nearly 7 percent below the peak set in 2007. That figure is exaggerated because it includes nonprofit organizations, but the Fed says there is no way to separate them out. The per capita net worth of Americans at the end of the quarter exceeded $200,000 for the first time since 2008.
The picture is not quite as bleak for disposable personal income -- the money Americans have left over after paying taxes. On a nominal basis, it exceeded the old record last year, and has continued to grow. But after adjusting for inflation, the average American still earns less now than six years ago.
The accompanying charts show four-year changes in per capita disposable personal income and in per capita household wealth. Each chart shows the nominal changes and the changes adjusted for inflation. At the right of each chart, in dotted lines, are the net changes since the first quarter of 2009, when President Obama took office. In each case, the numbers are now up, although the gain in per capita disposable income, after adjusting for inflation, is a tiny 0.2 percent.
But much of his administration has seen four-year changes that are unprecedented since the Fed began calculating the net worth figures in 1952.
As can be seen from the lower chart, real per capita net worth did decline over four-year periods in the 1970s and again after the end of the technology stock bubble in 2001. But nominal per capita net worth had not suffered such a fall until the current cycle. Moreover, while the 2001 decline was concentrated among stock market investors, who tend to be wealthier than average, the plunge in housing prices hurt far more people.
In the first quarter of this year, per capita disposable personal income was up just 4.7 percent from four years ago. That is the smallest such gain since the late 1940s, when the number was influenced by the fall in government spending after World War II. Adjusted for inflation, the average American now has income that is 2.1 percent lower than four years ago.
Barring a new economic downturn, both per capita net worth and disposable income will be higher when President Obama's term ends than they were when it began. The election may turn on whether to focus on that fact instead of the declines during much of his term.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Earning Less and Worth Less: Adjusted for inflation, per capita disposable personal income has yet to recover to the peak reached in 2008. Household net worth, also adjusted for inflation and measured on a per capita basis, is still nearly 20 percent below the high reached in 2007. The charts show four-year changes in both figures, both before and after adjusting for inflation. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis (disposable personal income), Federal Reserve via Haver Analytics (net worth)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



327 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: BUCKS; The College Value Conversation

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at BAM Advisor Services. His book, ''The Behavior Gap,'' was published earlier this year. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog.
My daughters are 15 and 13, and my wife and I have been planning for their college expenses for a while. With just a few years to go, however, it's starting to feel really serious. And that has led us to frequent conversations about our feelings on the value of a college education. 
With every conversation, I'm finding it fascinating to work through my assumptions and preconceptions on this crucial issue. We all dream of our children having a better future, so it's no surprise that our conversations about education can get emotional. Money and dreams mixed together will do that to you.
Part of these conversations includes the very interesting experience of working through the basic assumptions I've made about the value of a great college education compared with the reality of paying for it. My wife and I set the goal of sending our children to the best schools they can get into. But with the costs of such an education spiraling out of control, I find myself questioning that goal.
One of our daughters decided a long time ago that she was going to Stanford. I've been careful not to crush her dream, but there's a reason why they say reality bites.
Let's say she manages to get accepted. (Stanford's acceptance rate is 7 percent, so I know it's a long shot for anyone.) According to Stanford, the costs for a typical undergraduate student adds up to $58,846 per year. That's over $200,000 for an undergraduate degree, and that doesn't even account for the next several years worth of inflation.
Sure, Stanford is a striking example, and the college is generous with financial aid. But in 2011 the average outstanding student loan balance was over $23,000, with 10 percent of those loans being above $54,000, and the data shows people are having a harder time keeping up with the payments. If we don't take the time to think through our assumptions about college, it becomes much easier to end up in that 10 percent group before earning a single paycheck.
The conversation gets even more complicated when we balance it against the fact that college students now say that being financially secure is their most important life goal.
See the issue here? On one side of the argument we've been taught that getting the best education money can buy is the best investment you can make. On the other side sits the fact that the skyrocketing cost of education can be a major hurdle to the thing that we say we value the most, financial security.
The tricky part is that we don't have a single right answer for everyone. As my friend, the financial planner Tim Maurer, would explain, this is the kind of personal finance issue that is more personal than it is financial.
What if my daughter does end up going to Stanford and decides in her junior year that she wants to teach elementary school? I've seen the amazing work of my children's teachers, and it's clearly a worthwhile goal. But what about the debt she might incur getting that fantastic education? Can she realistically earn enough as a teacher to repay that kind of debt?
Also, how much does the debt matter if having a degree from a top-flight school can help open doors that might not otherwise open? Do those doors lead to an increased shot at financial security and happiness once all the debt is paid? Again, I'm not sure what the right answers are, but it helps if we start by asking the right questions.
One question that comes up more often now that would have seemed like heresy in the past focuses on whether college is even worth it. Another version of this question is what I call the Dropout Myth. When it's brought up, we're presented with the names of some famous people who dropped out of school and went on to become wildly successful. We love to hold people like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg up as examples of why going to college might be a waste of time.
But that can be a dangerous road to go down. I think it's hard for someone to claim with any seriousness that Steve Jobs's success happened because he dropped out of school. This doesn't mean we shouldn't ask hard questions about the value of college, particularly with the example of the interesting work of people like Josh Kaufman and his Personal MBA.
The reality of the hard choices around education were brought home to me on my recent trip to Canada. I had a conversation with several recent grads who hadn't thought through how expensive college would prove to be and the impact of the debt on their lives. So when they asked me what advice I'd offer to someone preparing to go to college, I suggested that the answer was in line with how we plan for the other parts of our financial futures: we need to start talking and asking questions about these things sooner rather than later.
Talking should lead to planning, and hopefully the process of planning will lead to making decisions that are aligned with what we say is important to us.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); STUDENT LOANS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012



328 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Chief Testifies for 3rd Day in Insider Trading Case

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
6:25 p.m. Updated
It had to have been among the least productive weeks of Lloyd C. Blankfein's six-year tenure as the chief executive of Goldman Sachs.
For the better part of three days this week, Mr. Blankfein testified at the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman director who is facing charges that he leaked the bank's secret boardroom discussions to the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam from 2007 to 2009.
Though Mr. Blankfein appeared at ease in the courtroom, he had to clear his busy calendar. He could not monitor the volatility in the financial markets. He could not even check his BlackBerry, to which he has acknowledged something of an addiction. In short, he could not do his job. 
Instead, Mr. Blankfein, who has spent most of his career in the fast-paced environment of a trading floor, had to sit still on the witness stand and respond to hours of often-monotonous questions. Lawyers on both sides had him discuss Goldman's inner workings, from the contents of board meetings to his relationship with his lieutenants.
Goldman has played a starring role in the trial of Mr. Gupta, which wrapped up its third week in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff. The prosecution rested its case on Friday, and the defense began to put on its own witnesses.
Late Friday, after the jury had gone home for the weekend, Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta, said it was ''highly likely'' that Mr. Gupta would testify in his own defense next week.
Mr. Naftalis spent much of Friday cross-examining Mr. Blankfein to try to show that some of the information Mr. Gupta is accused of leaking was known by the market and thus not ''material nonpublic information'' under the insider trading laws.
The line between public and private information is critical in the case, and Mr. Naftalis worked hard to try to erase that line. He showed Mr. Blankfein two reports from analysts who followed Goldman during the 2008 financial crisis. The reports, written by analysts at Merrill Lynch and Oppenheimer, raise the prospect of Goldman buying a retail bank. Both reports came after meetings with top Goldman officials.
''GS Bank & Trust?'' pondered one report. ''Don't rule it out.''
A rationale for putting the reports before the jury was to minimize damage from the only phone conversation between the two recorded by a Federal Bureau of Investigation wiretap. During that call, in July 2008, Mr. Gupta tells Mr. Rajaratnam that Goldman's board is considering buying a bank.
A jury convicted Mr. Rajaratnam, who ran the now-defunct Galleon Group hedge fund, of orchestrating an extensive insider trading conspiracy last year.
At times, Mr. Naftalis and Mr. Blankfein often seemed to fight for the jury's affection. While Mr. Blankfein was being presented with a batch of news pieces about Goldman's possible purchase of a bank, an article flashed on the overhead screen with a photograph of Mr. Blankfein resting his face on his left hand. This prompted laughter from the jury and spectators.
Mr. Blankfein, seizing the moment, mimicked the pose from the witness stand, leading to more cackling in the courtroom.
Comparing Mr. Blankfein's pose against the photograph, Mr. Naftalis instructed the chief executive to move his hand ''down and a little to the left.''
As he left the courtroom, Mr. Blankfein acknowledged the jury with a nod and a smile.
Before resting their case on Friday, prosecutors played several secretly recorded short voice mail messages left by Mr. Gupta on Mr. Rajaratnam's cellphone. During one on Oct. 10, 2008, a time of market turmoil during the financial crisis, Mr. Gupta says: ''Hey Raj, Rajat here. Just calling to catch up. I know it must be an awful and busy week. I hope you are holding up well. Uh, and I'll try to give you a call over the weekend just to catch up. All the best to you, talk to you soon. Bye bye.''
Mr. Gupta's lawyers have said that by October 2008, Mr. Gupta had lost his entire $10 million in a Galleon fund and had a falling-out with Mr. Rajaratnam and thus had no interest in passing along insider tips. The friendly tone of the voice mail message was the prosecution's effort to debunk that theory. Reed Brodsky, a prosecutor, rested the government's case after playing the recordings.
For the last 45 minutes of the day, the jury watched the defense's videotaped deposition of Ajit Jain, a top lieutenant at Berkshire Hathaway and a top contender to succeed Warren E. Buffett, Berkshire's chief executive.
Mr. Jain, a friend of Mr. Gupta's, testified about the acrimony that had developed between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam. He said that during a lunch in January 2009 at an Italian restaurant in Stamford, Conn., Mr. Gupta told him about the bad blood.
''He told me that he had $10 million invested and he had been gypped, swindled and cheated by Raj and had lost his $10 million.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief executive at Goldman Sachs, finished his testimony on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENA BETANCUR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LAWYERS (77%); VERDICTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); WIRETAPPING (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (91%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



329 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Six Words From Obama, and a Barrage in Return From Republicans

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With good reason, presidents have long been said to hold the power of the bully pulpit. But when President Obama sought to wield it on Friday, by calling a White House news conference to showcase his concern for the economy and Republicans' refusal to work with him, he was the one who ended up getting pummeled.
By late afternoon, Mr. Obama was forced to clarify one line from his morning session with reporters -- ''the private sector is doing fine'' -- after Congressional Republicans and his presidential rival, Mitt Romney, had seized on the comment to criticize Mr. Obama as out-of-touch and detached from the millions of Americans who cannot find jobs or have given up looking. 
''Listen, it is absolutely clear that the economy is not doing fine. That's the reason I had the press conference,'' Mr. Obama said in clarifying his earlier remark when asked about Mr. Romney's criticism during an Oval Office appearance with the president of the Philippines, Benigno S. Aquino III.
''There are too many people out of work. The housing market is still weak and too many homes underwater,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And that's precisely why I asked Congress to start taking some steps that can make a difference.'' He ended, ''What I'm interested in hearing from Congress and Mr. Romney is what steps are they willing to take right now that are going to make an actual difference. And so far, all we've heard are additional tax cuts to the folks who are doing fine.''
But for the day at least, the damage was done, as Republicans hijacked the news cycle with their barrage against Mr. Obama's six words in a professorial 29-minute exchange. While the metaphor of the bully pulpit originated with President Theodore Roosevelt about a century ago and generally remains apt, it does not allow for a 21st-century media environment of constant cable television chatter, blogging and instant Internet videos that empower a president's opponents to bully back.
Campaigning in Iowa, Mr. Romney called Mr. Obama's statement ''an extraordinary miscalculation and misunderstanding by a president who is out-of-touch. And we're going to take back this country and get America working again.''
What was worse for Mr. Obama, the controversy was the capstone of an already bad week that had started the Friday before with a disappointing monthly jobs report showing an increase of just 69,000 jobs in May. There had been a similar media commotion over comments by former President Bill Clinton that were unhelpful to the Obama campaign (he, too, clarified himself later), a defeat for Democrats in Wisconsin's election to recall the Republican governor and the latest monthly fund-raising reports showing that Mr. Romney and the Republican Party for the first time had out-raised Mr. Obama and his party.
Mr. Obama's point at his news conference was that for more than two years, monthly jobs reports have shown growth in the private sector, but continuing cutbacks in the public sector as state and local governments slash jobs in their struggle to balance their budgets; the public sector -- not the private sector -- most needs additional government help.
He argued that ''if Republicans want to be helpful'' as Europe's financial crisis again threatens the American economy, they should quit opposing proposals in his jobs plan of last September that would aid states so they can keep teachers and first-responders at work and finance public-works projects to employ construction workers left jobless by the 2008 housing bust.
Mr. Obama's comment, in context, was: ''We've created 4.3 million jobs over the last 27 months, over 800,000 just this year alone. The private sector is doing fine. Where we're seeing weaknesses in our economy have to do with state and local government -- oftentimes, cuts initiated by governors or mayors who are not getting the kind of help that they have in the past from the federal government and who don't have the same kind of flexibility as the federal government in dealing with fewer revenues coming in.''
Republicans hope they can turn Mr. Obama's ''doing fine'' line into the sort of bumper-sticker comment that would damage him with swing voters much like his 2008 rival, Senator John McCain, was hurt when he said ''the fundamentals of the economy are strong.'' Mr. McCain, however, spoke in September 2008 as the financial system was already imploding, and his comment underscored his well-known and self-acknowledged unfamiliarity with economic policy.
Seeking to even the day's score, Democrats quickly mounted a counteroffensive by the same cable and Internet outlets to amplify one of Mr. Romney's remarks on Friday.
Speaking of Mr. Obama, Mr. Romney said: ''He wants another stimulus. He wants to hire more government workers. He says we need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers. Did he not get the message of Wisconsin? The American people did: It's time for us to cut back on government and help the American people.''
Ben LaBolt, an Obama campaign spokesman, said in a statement that ''Mitt Romney promised to eliminate even more public-sector jobs.''
Mr. Obama's news conference also provoked Republicans to revive their charge that he is blaming Europe's ills for slow growth here to distract from his own culpability.
''He used his old standby excuse -- headwinds -- for his failure on the economy,'' said Kirsten Kukowski, press secretary for the Republican National Committee.
Yet many economists say that Europe is a big factor in the American outlook. AllianceBernstein, an asset management firm in Manhattan, wrote to clients and reporters on Friday that it had slightly lowered its forecast for economic growth this year ''amid increasing international headwinds facing the U.S. economy.'' And Bank of America Merrill Lynch said ''the uncertainty shock from Europe is building rapidly, undercutting both U.S. and global growth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama speaking on the economy in the White House on Friday. By the end of the day, he had to clarify his remarks after criticism from Mitt Romney. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BENIGNO AQUINO III (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



330 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: For Labor, a Fight to Lead Heats Up

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The nation's largest union of state and local government workers -- the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees -- faces another important election this month, beyond last Tuesday's recall vote on Wisconsin's governor, Scott Walker, who retained his job despite the union's all-out effort to oust him.
Afscme's long-term future will also be profoundly shaped by the fierce fight to succeed Gerald W. McEntee, the union's colorful and influential president, who is retiring after 31 years. Union delegates will vote on June 21 to decide who will take the helm of the organization, which is the largest union of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and one of the most politically active.
Whoever wins will have his work cut out for him. The union's membership -- nearly 1.4 million last year -- has fallen as many states and cities have laid off workers. Labor experts expect that Tuesday's election results in Wisconsin, San Diego and San Jose will embolden officials elsewhere to seek to curb collective bargaining and cut pensions for public sector employees. And the union, which worked hard to elect President Obama in 2008, is going up against far more Republican money in this year's presidential election. 
Like the Wisconsin recall, in which Mr. Walker ran against his 2010 gubernatorial opponent, the Afscme election is a rematch, featuring the two men who vied in 2010 for the union's No. 2 position, secretary-treasurer.
Lee Saunders, who won that race by 3,000 votes out of the 1.3 million cast, is a longtime member of the union's Washington headquarters staff and is known for being quietly influential. As Mr. McEntee's right-hand man, he is closely associated with the union's recent successes and failures.
Challenging him is Danny Donohue, who for 18 years has headed the union's biggest local, the Civil Service Employees Association, which represents state and local workers in New York State. Feisty and at times acid-tongued, Mr. Donohue styles himself the candidate of change who would better represent rank-and-file workers.
''It's going to be a very close race,'' said Richard Hurd, a professor of labor relations at Cornell University. ''They both have strong support within the organization.''
Many labor experts say the election is the most important and closely fought internal union battle since the mid-1990s. In 1995, John Sweeney narrowly edged out Thomas Donahue to win the A.F.L.-C.I.O. presidency. And in 1996, Ron Carey beat back James P. Hoffa's challenge for the helm of the 1.4-million-member Teamsters union, 52 to 48 percent (although Mr. Carey was ousted the following year in a campaign finance scandal and Mr. Hoffa later won the post).
In interviews and campaign materials, both Afscme candidates vowed to make the union stronger without offering many specific proposals.
Indeed, the race is less likely to be decided on issues than on the candidates' personalities and on whom they have befriended or offended over the years.
Mr. Donohue has gone on the offensive, calling Mr. Saunders a Beltway insider and a bureaucrat who does not listen enough to the members.
''When he was elected two years ago, he said, 'Make me secretary-treasurer, and I'll do things differently. I'll make things better,' '' Mr. Donohue said in an interview. ''Two years later, nothing really has changed. The people in our union want change.''
Mr. Saunders, who joined the Afscme staff in 1978, first as a labor economist, insists he is the better candidate. ''I have experience working for the national union,'' he said. ''I understand Washington, and because I've been out there a lot, I also understand the issues confronting our members around the country.''
Both candidates were dismayed by the Wisconsin results. Mr. Donohue said Mr. Walker's victory ''was a punch at labor.'' Unions now ''have to work closer with the public'' to solidify support and get their message across, he said.
Mr. Saunders, 60, also vowed to continue the battle to persuade voters about the union's cause. ''We have to lick our wounds and get out of bed and continue the fight,'' he said. ''Our folks are so angry and frustrated about being used as a scapegoat that they're going to continue to engage in this battle.''
Mr. Donohue, 67, portrays himself as Mr. Rank-and-File, rising up from his beginnings as an attendant at a psychiatric hospital.
He said his main achievements included transforming the Civil Service Employees Association from a loose grouping of locals across New York into a powerful, closely knit union. He also takes credit for unionizing more than 25,000 child care workers after a former governor, Eliot Spitzer, gave the green light to organize them.
Henry Bayer, Mr. Donohue's campaign manager and head of Afscme's main Illinois affiliate, predicted that Mr. Donohue would win because he had picked up delegate support in Massachusetts, Florida and Wisconsin that he did not have two years ago.
''Danny has been laboring in the vineyards for over 30 years, while Lee has been sipping wine in Washington for 30 years,'' Mr. Bayer said.
Mr. Saunders, who is mild-mannered and diplomatic -- some supporters say too much so -- grows angry at the Donohue camp's belittling of him as a Washington insider.
He said he had worked in Ohio's Bureau of Employment Services for three years before joining Afscme's staff. ''I spend more than half my time outside Washington,'' he said. ''I've been in Wisconsin constantly for the past year. I was in Ohio repeatedly, listening to members, knocking on doors, participating with members in the fight to repeal S.B. 5.''
That 2011 law, backed by Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, stripped government workers of their ability to bargain collectively. Organized labor, led by Afscme, engineered a successful referendum last November to repeal the law -- a very different result from Tuesday's Wisconsin vote.
''Danny didn't set foot in Ohio for that fight, and he only went to Wisconsin to campaign for the presidency,'' Mr. Saunders said. ''You have to have a leader who leads from Day 1, and I've been there since Day 1.''
Mr. Saunders exudes confidence that he will win, noting that he has picked up support from delegates representing an additional 60,000 members in California and 20,000 in New York City.
There is no question that the two candidates have different styles.
When a former New York governor, David Paterson, was threatening furloughs and health care cuts, Mr. Donohue called his administration ''incompetent'' and said Mr. Paterson needed ''a good psychiatrist.''
''My members didn't hire me to be nice to governors,'' Mr. Donohue said in an interview. ''We want government to work, but we don't want to do it on our knees. If you treat my members right, with dignity and respect, then you'll have no problems with me.''
One Saunders supporter, Ray Markey, the longtime head of a New York librarians' local, took to Facebook to hammer Mr. Donohue for negotiating a contract for state workers that included a three-year freeze on base pay, higher health insurance payments and furloughs. ''Afscme cannot afford to have Danny do to the rest of the country what he has done in New York,'' he said.
Mr. Donohue said many labor leaders had had to accept concessions in recent years.
He has repeatedly attacked Mr. Saunders and Mr. McEntee for ''checkbook unionism,'' saying they have spent too much on national races, including the $90 million that Mr. McEntee said the union spent in the 2010 campaign. Mr. Donohue has suggested he would cut back Afscme's national political ambitions to make the union more effective in state and local elections.
Mr. Saunders accused Mr. Donohue of spreading misinformation. ''Sixty-five percent of our political budget goes into state and local battlegrounds,'' he said. He also noted that Mr. Donohue sat on the union's executive board for two decades without objecting to Afscme's political spending.
Mr. Saunders said he had fought important battles alongside Mr. McEntee, including the effort to block President George W. Bush's attempt to partly privatize Social Security and last year's moves by Ohio and Florida lawmakers to curb collective bargaining. He said he also helped set up Afscme's Next Wave program to train and mobilize younger union members.
In a nod to the Wisconsin results, he said, ''We have to build a Main Street movement and develop and rebuild our relations with others, inside and outside labor. We can't take on all these fights by ourselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lee Saunders, above, at a rally, is secretary-treasurer of Afscme and is again facing the man he defeated for that job, Danny Donohue, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Lee Saunders said his Washington experience would help him at the helm of Afscme. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Danny Donohue, head of the Civil Service Employees Association, said being close to the rank and file would help him lead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (84%); CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (59%); AFL-CIO (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); SCOTT WALKER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



331 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rise as Inventories Show Some Momentum

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Friday, capping their best week so far this year. It was a relief for investors after the big decline of the previous week.
Stocks fell in morning trading, with the Dow Jones industrial average down almost 63 points. But share prices turned around after the government said businesses were restocking their shelves faster than analysts had expected. 
The Commerce Department said wholesale stockpiles grew 0.6 percent in April, twice as fast as they grew in March. The growth is a sign that businesses are ordering enough goods to lead to increased factory production and sales. Investors had been braced for more sluggish growth.
Oil fell 72 cents to $84.10 a barrel, pressed down by long-term economic worries. But lower energy costs help consumers.
''If you had some doubts about an economic recovery, oil in the s$80 is a lot better than oil at $110,'' said James P. Dunigan, managing executive of investments for PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia. Oil traded just below $110 in late February.
The Dow finished 93.24 points, or 0.75 percent, higher, at 12,554.20. It ended the week up almost 3.6 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.67 points, or 0.81 percent, to close at 1,325.66. The Nasdaq composite rose 27.40 points, or 0.97 percent, to close at 2,858.42.
Wal-Mart Stores was the biggest gainer in the Dow, up $2.35, or 3.6 percent, at $68.22. Other companies that depend heavily on a strong economy grew too, including Intel, up 47 cents, or 1.8 percent, at $26.41, and General Electric, up 20 cents, or 1 percent, to $19.20. Home Depot rose $1.11, or 2.2 percent, to $52.35.
Facebook rose 79 cents, or 3 percent, to $27.10 after opening its App Center, which will recommend new add-on software for users. Anything that increases user interaction is likely to help it sell more ads, which has been a concern for investors in its new stock, which began trading three weeks ago at $38.
Chesapeake Energy shareholders punished their directors and were rewarded by the market. The stock rose 51 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $18.36 after shareholder votes prompted the resignations of two directors at the company's annual meeting Friday. Earlier in the day the company said it would sell pipeline assets in three deals for a total of more than $4 billion in cash.
Navistar International rose $4.25, or 17.6 percent, to $28.36 after the activist investor Carl C. Icahn raised his stake in the truck maker.
Markets fell in Asia. Shanghai's stock index lost a half-percent, its third day of losses. Japan's Nikkei fell 2.1 percent.
Chinese leaders have been showing signs of urgency ahead of the release of May trade and industrial data that was due out early Saturday in Asia.
Major European markets fell, although their declines were smaller after the United States inventory news came out. France's benchmark index lost 0.6 percent, Britain's and Germany's each dropped 0.2 percent.
Interest rates fell slightly. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32, to 101 3/32, and the yield fell to 1.63 percent from 1.64 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); NAV (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (51%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



332 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: As Recess Nears, Hopes Dim for Ending Impasse

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- They are the sort of bills that, once upon a time in Washington, passed easily: money for highways and students, protection for battered women.
But in this Congressional climate, it seems unlikely that all or even any of these stalled measures will be enacted before the July 4th recess -- an ominous sign for the much harder work of preventing an entire fiscal unraveling at the end of the year. Crisis looms, because crisis is all Washington can do these days.
Members of Congress are increasingly worried about the lame-duck session after the election, one replete with expiring tax provisions and onerous budget cuts that are increasingly becoming known as the ''fiscal cliff.'' But there is also a policy precipice at the end of June, when two important programs will expire if Republicans and Democrats cannot find a way to compromise on them. 
''There is frustration among a bipartisan group,'' said Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire. ''There are an awful lot of red states that need transportation funding, too.''
Even more remarkably, the two parties are at an impasse on a formerly benign measure that has routinely passed with near unanimous bipartisan support, one that protects women from domestic violence.
With both chambers set to recess for a Fourth of July holiday, on top of the House being out all of next week and senators once again racing for the region's airports on Thursday afternoon, it is becoming hard to see how a spate of deals will be done.
Absent such action, come July 1, millions of college students will see the interest rates on their federally subsidized loans double to 6.8 percent, and highway financing will again be in jeopardy. The measure that helps protect women would leave uncertainty about future funding for its programs.
The mood on Capitol Hill was sizzling with partisan rancor this week, particularly after an article on Politico suggested that Representative Eric Cantor, the Virginia Republican and majority leader, had declared 2012 legislation more or less finished.
Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the majority leader, took to the Senate floor to berate Mr. Cantor, although there was no actual quotation in the article to point to, for saying ''out loud what every Republican on Capitol Hill has been thinking all along -- they care more about winning elections than creating jobs.''
Over in the House, a spokeswoman for Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican whip, said on Twitter that the House would be voting ''well after Harry Reid's bedtime.'' Ouch. And Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, hinted Thursday that the highway bill would remain unresolved, and that a six-month extension might be in the offing.
The failure of Congress to reach agreement has serious implications for road projects, families with college-age children and women who use shelters and other legal services.
''This is a major concern for us and our students,'' said Diane Stemper, the director of student financial aid at Ohio State University, where 57 percent of the undergraduates have federal student loans. ''Our students on average are graduating with $20,000 in debt.''
In New Hampshire, sections of an expansion of Interstate 93 have already been delayed because the state waited to issue bonds because of uncertainty over a clear revenue stream from Washington, said Cliff Sinnott, the executive director of the Rockingham Planning Commission.
The summer impasse also presages tough days ahead for both parties charged with resolving far more controversial tax and spending matters before the end of the year.
''These things should be pretty easy,'' said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri. ''I think it all depends now on what happens with the election. And I hate to say that because the fact is we have the responsibility to get our work done and we need to get it done, and I would hope that everyone acts like adults and we do the work we need to do.''
In the case of each piece of legislation, members of both parties agree on the essential details. With the exception of a handful of very conservative Republicans in both chambers, a majority of members agree that student loan rates should not increase, but the parties are tied in knots over how to cover the $6 billion price tag for doing so.
Republicans and Democrats have volleyed some different ideas back and forth over the last week -- late Thursday, Mr. Reid proposed two ways to shore up private pensions and generate more tax revenues as a means to pay for the loan rate extension, While there seemed to be some signs of movement, no deal seemed in the immediate offing.
While the Senate has passed a bipartisan transportation bill, the House has rejected it, because it does not offer the streamlining and program consolidation Republicans seek. The House bill has provisions for the next phase of the Keystone XL pipeline and a measure concerning coal ash. The two sides appear at loggerheads. ''The Tea Party is holding up a major transportation bill,'' Ms. Shaheen said.
Similarly, the Senate passed a Violence Against Women Act, and the House has its own version that removes Senate provisions like those that would subject non-Indian suspects of domestic violence to prosecution before tribal courts for crimes allegedly committed on reservations and expand the number of temporary visas for illegal immigrant victims of domestic violence. This bill that once passed by voice vote seems hopelessly stalled.
''It's always frustrating, ''said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, ''that's part of the legislative life up here -- always has been. This is an election year, and not many things happen in an election year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (74%); AIRPORTS (66%); JOB CREATION (61%); BUDGET CUTS (55%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: KEVIN MCCARTHY (57%); HARRY REID (57%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); ERIC CANTOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



333 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Assad, the Butcher

 BODY:
In the latest horrors from Syria, United Nations monitors are investigating a massacre in the hamlet of Qubeir, where some 78 people reportedly were shot, garroted or burned alive. If formally confirmed, it would be the fourth massacre in two weeks. Activists said an assault on the town of Hiffeh that began on Monday included the first use of missiles fired from helicopter gunships since the anti-Assad protests began 16 months ago. 
Despite his claims that the violence is the work of ''terrorists,'' President Bashar al-Assad has a lot to hide. On Thursday, Syrian troops and pro-government supporters barred the monitors from Qubeir, and the monitors were fired upon. The team was finally permitted to enter the hamlet on Friday, and journalists and a spokeswoman for the monitors reported chilling evidence of multiple killings, including congealed blood and scattered body parts. Villagers said militiamen had trucked bodies away.
This is only the latest proof of the failure of the peace plan promoted by Kofi Annan, the special envoy to Syria for the United Nations and the Arab League. All it has done is give Russia, China and some other members of the United Nations Security Council six more weeks to excuse their inaction.
On Thursday, Mr. Annan told the Security Council that the savagery will increase without concerted international pressure. He's right. But there is no sign that Russia and China -- complicit in more than 12,000 Syrian deaths -- are ready to seriously cooperate. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman was still in a fantasy world on Friday, calling on both sides in the conflict to stop the fighting.
The Obama administration is making more of an effort to try to bring the Russians on board. A senior American official was in Moscow this week. Washington needs to marshal all of the pressure and shaming it can find.
Sanctions imposed by the United States, the European Union and others are pinching Mr. Assad's cronies. But they are not enough. A United Nations arms embargo -- Russia and Iran are both still selling arms to Damascus -- and the toughest possible comprehensive economic sanctions are long overdue. So are formal charges against Mr. Assad and his lieutenants for crimes against humanity.
With every new atrocity, calls for military action grow. We understand the desire to protect innocents. Intervention would be costly and could widen the war. The best hope of avoiding that is for the Security Council to impose comprehensive punishments -- and for Russia, China and Iran to stop enabling Mr. Assad's savagery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); BURN INJURIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); ARMS EMBARGOES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); HELICOPTERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SYRIA (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



334 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Back And Forth: Romney Ad Responds to Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Is Mitt Romney's campaign feeling the pressure from President Obama's attacks on his record as governor of Massachusetts?
A new television ad by Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, responds directly to the attacks, claiming ''the best jobs record in a decade'' for Mr. Romney while he led the state. 
''Romney reduced unemployment to just 4.7 percent,'' the narrator in the ad says. ''He balanced every budget without raising taxes. He did it by bringing parties together to cut through gridlock. From Day 1 as president, Mitt Romney's strong leadership will make all the difference on jobs.''
It was unclear, however, how much money Mr. Romney's campaign was spending on the ad, or how many states it will be running in. A spokeswoman for the campaign refused to disclose any details of the size or scope of the ad.
The ad follows a $10 million push in nine battleground states by Mr. Obama's campaign to attack the governor's record in Massachusetts.
The Obama ad, titled ''Heard It Before,'' shows Mr. Romney saying that he speaks ''the language of business.'' But the ad cites newspaper articles that suggest that Mr. Romney presided over one of ''the worst economic records in the country.''
''When Mitt Romney was governor, Massachusetts lost 40,000 manufacturing jobs,'' the narrator says. ''And fell to 47th in job creation. Fourth from the bottom.''
The decision by Mr. Romney's Boston headquarters to respond directly to Mr. Obama's attacks suggests that the Republican team believes there is political danger in letting them go unanswered.
Mr. Romney's ad also continues the ''Day One'' theme that his campaign has been using in television commercials to try and show how a Republican administration would immediately be different from Mr. Obama's presidency.
Aides to Mr. Romney believe that people have soured on Mr. Obama but want to know how Mr. Romney would be better. The ads are an effort to answer that question in a way that his advisers believe will help Mr. Romney get elected.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); BUDGETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



335 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Demographic Shifts in Key States Could Aid Obama in Fall

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
MADISON, Wis. -- In this traditionally Democratic state, where Republicans triumphed in Tuesday's failed recall of Gov. Scott Walker, President Obama holds a thin cushion against economic and political woes: the shape-shifting November electorate.
Here in Dane County, which Mr. Obama carried overwhelmingly in 2008, the population has been growing at more than twice the state average. Minority voters have edged up as a share of the state population, while the number of working-class whites shrinks -- making a state Democrats have carried in six consecutive presidential elections slightly more friendly to the party. 
That's no guarantee the Democratic incumbent can survive the effects of tough economic times with the coalition that gave him a double-digit victory four years ago. But in Wisconsin and other competitive states, demographic changes add another variable to a campaign conversation that has largely revolved around high unemployment and slow growth.
''A number of states are urbanizing and losing their historically large rural conservative vote,'' said Jan van Lohuizen, a Republican pollster who advised President George W. Bush.
The result, added Ruy Teixeira, a Democratic political demographer, is ''a little bit of a tail wind'' to offset stiff economic headwinds.
Indeed, Mr. Teixeira frames the battle between Mr. Obama and Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger, as a contest pitting ''demographics versus economics.'' In an analysis for the liberal Center for American Progress, he and his co-author, John Halpin, calculated that in 12 battleground states, the proportion of votes cast by working-class whites, a group Mr. Obama lost lopsidedly in 2008, will drop by three percentage points this fall.
By contrast, they project the proportion cast by minority voters, who backed Mr. Obama by overwhelming margins, will rise by two percentage points. The share of votes cast by white college graduates, which Mr. Obama nearly split with his 2008 Republican rival, Senator John McCain, is projected to rise by one percentage point.
From one election to the next, such shifts have only marginal effects. But over the last generation, they have combined with political changes to invert the electoral map.
In 1976, for example, President Gerald R. Ford, a Republican, carried California, Illinois, New Jersey and Connecticut. But he lost because his Democratic opponent, Jimmy Carter, swept his native Georgia as well as South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama and Texas.
Fueled in those states by strong support from conservative Christians, Mr. Carter, a Southern Baptist, became the only Democrat to win the presidency between 1964 and 1992.
That American electorate has vanished -- and with it the once-touted ''Republican lock'' on the presidency.
Following the ideological realignment of the two parties, white conservative Christians now back Republican presidential candidates by three to one or better. The Deep South and Pacific Coast are solidly in the Republican and Democratic columns, respectively.
But the Republicans' redoubt of white voters -- whites have backed the Republican nominee in every election since 1964 -- has steadily shrunk from the combined effects of immigration and disparate birthrates.
Comprising 89 percent of the electorate in 1976, whites had fallen to 74 percent four years ago. During the same period, Hispanics grew from 1 percent of the electorate to 9 percent.
The opening of a gender gap in presidential politics -- which didn't exist in 1976 -- gave Republicans an edge among men and Democrats an edge among women. But women, who made up 49 percent of the electorate in 1976, now cast a majority of votes, helping the Democrats.
Some changes, like the decline in voters from union households to 21 percent of the 2008 electorate from 29 percent in 1976, benefit Republicans. And since 2008, population shifts reflected in Congressional reapportionment have shifted six electoral votes from states Mr. Obama carried to states Mr. McCain did.
For Mr. Obama, the question is whether continuing demographic changes over the last four years can offset the near-term drag of weak economic conditions, among other political challenges. The largest shifts to his benefit have taken place in Pennsylvania, Colorado, Nevada and Virginia, where Mr. Teixeira projects a decline of at least four percentage points in the proportion of the vote cast by working-class whites.
Mr. van Lohuizen, the Republican pollster, also points to North Carolina, where the voting strength of the Democratic-friendly Research Triangle area has swelled at the expense of conservative rural areas. Yet he notes that ''the economy slows the long-term trend down a little bit'' in two different ways.
In Southwestern states, he said, ''I don't think Hispanic turnout will match the growth'' in the number of eligible Hispanic voters because of subpar enthusiasm for Mr. Obama's economic performance. And in Midwestern states like Ohio, Iowa and Wisconsin, the shrinking pool of blue-collar whites could vote even more lopsidedly against the incumbent.
''White working-class voters have gotten seriously squeezed'' by high unemployment and stagnant or declining incomes, Mr. van Lohuizen said.
Surveys of voters leaving the polls in the Wisconsin recall, in which Governor Walker fended off a Democratic effort to drive him out of office midway through his term, hinted at continuing shifts in the composition of the electorate.
With both parties mounting full-scale voter turnout efforts, the proportion of the vote cast by residents of rural areas dropped to 26 percent from 35 percent in the election for governor two years ago. White college graduates edged up to 37 percent of the electorate from 35 percent in 2010.
Another shift resulted not from demographics but from a surge in labor turnout in response to Mr. Walker's battle against public employee unions; even as public employee unions have hemorrhaged members, one-third of the vote was cast by residents of union households, up from 26 percent in 2010.
Those shifts were not enough to lift Tom Barrett, the Democratic mayor of Milwaukee, to victory in the recall election. But among those voting, exit polls showed, Mr. Obama was favored by 51 percent to 44 percent over Mr. Romney.
Online Correction: June 8, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misidentified the county that Barack Obama carried overwhelmingly in 2008 and where the population has been growing at more than twice the state average. It is Dane County, not Dade County.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The conservative Democratic electorate in the South that helped elect Jimmy Carter in 1976 has pretty much vanished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY D. GORTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gerald R. Ford carried California, Illinois, New Jersey and Connecticut in 1976, states that are now solidly Democratic. The Republicans' redoubt of white voters has been shrinking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDDIE HAUSNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); URBANIZATION (67%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); SCOTT WALKER (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012



336 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Levels, Percentages, and Structural Unemployment (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: It depends on the question. 

 BODY:
Just a quick note on a question that comes up in some comments: why do I sometimes look at percentage changes in unemployment, sometimes at changes in absolute levels? Isn't that inconsistent?
The answer, of course, is no. When you do stuff with data, here is the universal rule: do what makes sense . It's like the issue of where the y-axis in a diagram starts -- it depends on context. Starting at zero isn't a universal rule, certainly not when changes of a few percent up or down are in fact crucially important for the policy discussion.
So on unemployment, one favorite story out there is that we have lots of unemployment, and must have lots of unemployment, because the pre-crisis structure of the economy was unsustainable: too many people were building houses in Nevada, too few doing other stuff in other places, so there has to be unemployment as workers move from the occupations/localities that were oversized to those that were undersized.
OK, so what would be the "signature" if this story were true? There would be lots of job losses among construction workers in Nevada, of course; but for the story to make sense there should be rising employment in those other sectors people are supposedly moving to.
But of course, that's not at all what you see. Instead, you see job losses everywhere, with most of the total job loss taking place in sectors that were clearly overinflated by the bubble. And that is the relevant comparison: if non-bubble sectors are losing rather than gaining jobs, and in fact account for most of the job losses, then this story is just wrong.
Now along comes someone to say that as a percentage of initial employment job losses were bigger in construction. The appropriate answer is, so? Yes, there was a construction bubble; we knew that. The question is whether mass unemployment is a matter of laid-off construction workers taking time to find jobs in other sectors; percentage changes by sector tell you nothing at all about that, but absolute changes do.
As usual, there will be squawks of outrage. But as I said, the universal rule for using data is to think about the question you're trying to answer. A foolish consistency here really is the hobgoblin of little minds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); DISMISSALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



337 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 5367 words

HEADLINE: A Reporter's Marathon Day in Sports

BYLINE: MIKE TANIER


HIGHLIGHT: Mike Tanier blogged and tweeted at events and locations throughout New York on Saturday. Re-live his day here. 

 BODY:
1:01 a.m. | Bradley? Really? Oh Well, I'm Done 
The crowd at Demsey's is as confused as we are.
Tim Bradley did not win the fight we watched.
At any rate, my eyes are barely open. This is a job for boxing experts. Or people who have not been awake for 20 hours.
This blog comes to a strange conclusion. That's boxing, folks.
Gonna have nightmares that my life will be judged by boxing judges. #fanathon
 - Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
12:50 AM | What????? Bradley Won?
Tim Bradley won? 
I am hallucinating, right?
12:24 AM | Fight Update
Pacquaio is crushing Bradley. This is like the French Open final, except that Sara Errani never rushed the net and tried to head butt or low blow Maria Sharapova. 
Though that would have been quite an event to cover.
This is like rope a dope. Pacquiao keeps his guard up, makes every punch count. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
11:52 PM | Reflections
With my journey really done, it is time to reflect. Here is what I will take away from this all-day trek:
Sunburn.
A newfound appreciation of how the music of Gypsy sounds on an arena organ in a Stanley Cup Finals game.
A Strat-O-Matic score sheet signed by game creator Hal Richman.
An understanding that women's distance runners and race organizers are tough enough to shake off a collision with a taxi.
A pair of jeans which, having spent half an hour on the floor of a Bronx basement bar, will have to be chemically washed or burned.
A better sense of who to root for in Olympic track.
A recognition that a race horse can still affect our lives.
A knowledge that the sports world is too big to fully appreciate. Focus on one thing, and five others slip past you.
A reminder that, on a beautiful spring day, there is nothing better than being at the game.
I am picking Bradley #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
11:45 PM | Last Legs
Greetings from Jack Demsey's on West 33rd Street. It's a great atmosphere for boxing, and the crowd is glued to the pre-fight. They better be, after paying a $20 cover.
The Devils won, of course. In honor of that accomplishment, here is a transcript of the trash talk a Devils fan used against a small pocket of Kings fans at New York Penn Station:
"You never won a cup. You never, ever won a cup. You NEVER, EVER, won a cup. Never ever. Never ever ever."
This went on for about two minutes. Then the Kings fans defended themselves. Then the Devils fan started to sound dumb.
Fight coming soon. It is beer o'clock at Dempsey's. Guys, please, no head butts.
11:34 PM | Summer Fun at Newark's Penn Station 
Newark Penn Station smooth jazz no ventilation madness encroaching. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
Devils fans are heckling Kings fans in Penn Station. How did they find them? #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
11:01 PM | Devils Stay Alive 
Devils win! Now, off to watch the fight! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
10:08 PM | Stanley Cup FInals!
Blister in the Sun sounds like it was written for the hockey organ #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
Greetings from the Stanley Cup Finals at the Prudential Center in Newark.
The Devils are leading 2-1. As I sat down, Bryce Salvador picked up a two-minute high-sticking penalty for what looked like a wicked hit behind the net. The Devils withstood a flurry of Kings shots before time expired. It is the second intermission. The arena organ is jamming, taking us back in time to 1958 or so. "Everything's Coming Up Roses" is the song. When I think playoff hockey, I think Gypsy.
My brain is porridge. But I am here.
The atmosphere is electric, despite the music from Gypsy. This is what I need: the jolt of playoff hockey. The rush of an electrified crowd. 
Let me entertain you. Or better yet, let the Devils and Kings do it. The third period is about to start. Welcome to the Jungle!
In the arena. Looking down at the ice. Life is good. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
9:36 PM | Made it in, Barely 
At the devils game. But media trailer is closed. This calls for stragety. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
The credential person is helping us. Hooray! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
8:37 PM | While Waiting for the train to Newark
I ponder...
Why do assistants carry track stars' equipment onto the track in laundry baskets? Isn't there a more dignified container? Should laundry basket downhill bobsled on a long flight of stairs be an Olympic event?
The pace runner in a distance track event has an important job. But if he or she went far too fast, would runners try to keep up and get gassed after 80 meters? If he or she walked, would they all grind to a halt? What if he or she went off course? Practical jokers can never be pace runners.
Do the folks at Yankee Stadium really need to inform us that Francis Scott Key wrote the National Anthem? Do people think it was written by Barry Manilow? Cheap Trick? Who on earth does not know but cares to know? Is there some Key relative collecting royalties?
When will this train arrive?
8:41 PM | Heading to Newark 
Stuck waiting for a 9 PM train. I WILL make it to the stanley cup finals #blogathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
8:40 PM | New Guinness Record for Longest Board Game Marathon
The Strat o Matic guys have broken the record. And they are still playing! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)10 Jun 12
7:25 PM | Seeking a Second Wind 
Fatigue is setting in. Looking at a lineup card I could swore it said Tony Lazzeri #fanathon #stratflashback
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
Time to try this mysterious energy packet they were giving away outside the stadium #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
7:15 PM | At Yankee Stadium
It is a beautiful night for baseball, but I am only here for an inning or so. There is a bigger sporting event located in the very heart of the New York sports universe. Which is, of course, New Jersey.
There was a happy ending to the Belmont tale. Most of the patrons along the murderer's row of bars outside the stadium were indifferent to the race, but three guys in full Yankees garb kept the flame of horse racing alive. They cheered "go U" throughout the race, and when Union Rags won, they raised enough ruckus for a whole crowd.
It goes to show you that even when the stakes are not as high as you would like, a great race is a great race. And any race you have action on has the chance to be a great race.
6:48 PM | Union Rags!
Union Rags wins the Belmont #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
6:26 PM | A Bronx Trail
The crowd at Stans Sports Bar has Yankees on the mind. Nationals-Red Sox is on the main television, not a horse race.
Seeking a break from the basement floor of the Yankee Bar and Grill, I ventured out in search of better amenities, like a stool. But Stan's, teeming with Yankees fans, has forgotten the Belmont.
What a difference an injured horse makes.
So I returned to the Yankee. It is not like being at the Belmont. But people are drinking, excitement is in the air, and many people are oblivious to the race. So really, it is a lot like being at the Belmont.
All that's missing are crazy hats. But I did just see a guy in an Indians cap.
5:27 PM | Live From a Bar Room Floor in the Bronx!
Plan A was to watch Oscar Pistorius run the 400 meters at Icahn Stadium, take a cab or an M35 bus back to 125st Street, take the No. 4 or No. 6 train back to midtown, hoof it to Penn Station, and then, depending on the time, either hop on the last Long Island Railroad train to Belmont or New Jersey Transit to Secaucus Junction, where my Honda Accord chariot could zip us to the Meadowlands, to catch the last few minutes of the Brazil-Argentina soccer friendly, followed by the Belmont simulcast.
Airtight, right?
Well, the M35 meanders along at the speed of Harlem traffic, which is not very swift on the day before the Puerto Rican Day Parade. And cabs don't usually venture out to Randalls Island midway through events. So photographer Ben Norman and I worked on our tans for a while.
Just learned Messi had three goals. Now 2nd to Paul McCartney for accomplishments by a dead guy. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
The woman ahead of us in the cab-hailing line offered to share, but just as she did so, the cab clipped her! Well, grazed her. It was not a Troy Polamalu hit, but Polamalu is not a cab. At any rate, she was fine, and still willing to share. It turns out that she was Mary Wittenberg, President of New York Road Runners, the organizers of this morning's 10K.
Wittenberg told stories from the not-so-good old days of women's distance running, back when Playboy bunnies led the field, then hopped off, to provide a jolt of prurient interest to a skeptical public. We leaped out at 125th Street and into the subway tunnel. The No. 6 train was about to depart. Norman, who was a high school tight end of some note, Gronkowski'd his way through the train doors and wedged us into place.
Unfortunately, we were going uptown to the Bronx, not downtown toward Penn Station.
Some subway interchanging later, we realized that the soccer game was in its waning moments. Since we were touring the Bronx anyway, there was only one place to go: Yankee Stadium.
So here I am, blogging live from the tiled floor of the Yankee Bar and Grill a block from the stadium as it fills up with thirsty Yankee fans. People are looking at me funny. Very funny. It probably has something to do with the fact that I look ridiculous sitting on this floor with a laptop as hip hop plays and people drink giant cans of Pabst Blue Ribbon.
Our Plan B: watch the Belmont here, something we would never do if I'll Have Another were still in the field. The horse is this story's absent center. After the race, an inning or so of Mets-Yankees, then a race to the Stanley Cup game.
Which means to go downtown. I will repeat that until it sinks in. Downtown. Downtown. Dow 
(All apologizes to Tom Waits for stealing his next album title for use as the title of this blog post)
4:53 PM | Change of Plans
Transit snafu. Gotta call an audible #fanathon.
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
3:40 PM | Pistorius Fails to Qualify for London 
Luguelin Santos took the men's 400 meter run with a time of 45.24.
Oscar Pistorius finished seventh at 46.14. His target time to make the Olympic team for South Africa was 45.30. The Blade Runner failed to qualify today but will have at least one more chance before London.
Time to leave Randalls Island for the next leg of my run!
3:29 PM | More Track Results
T'Erea Brown wins the women's 400 meter hurdles with a meet record time of 54.85 seconds. Brown came from behind to pass Kaliese Spencer, who took a nasty spill at the tape but walked off the track without help.
There was a strange false start in the men's 1500 meter. All 20 runners took off, several seconds elapsed, and then the gun sounded. It was as if the speed of sound was reduced for a construction or school zone. Bernard Lagat overtook Ayanleh Souleiman in the final 200 meters to win at 3:34.63.
Running on her 20th birthday, Fantu Magiso coasted to victory in the women's 800 meters, setting a meet record and Ethiopian national record at 1:57.48.
The sun is shining, a breeze is blowing and records are falling.
If not for the little screen next to me with accurate spellings, covering this event would be the hardest job in the world.
Blade Runner. Coming Soon.
2:35 PM | Track Update
Valerie Adams set a meet shot-put record at 20.09 meters. Ten minutes later, she broke it with a throw of 20.60 meters.
Tyson Gay ran the 100 meters in ten seconds flat to win the men's B race.
In the women's triple jump, Olga Rypakova broke the meet record by two feet with a 14.71 meter effort. We don't convert our measurements on this blog. We leave it as an exercise. 
Cleopatra Borel was not the best shot putter in today's meet, but she is the loudest competitor of the day, by far. Her shot put scream blows away any noise Maria Sharapova makes. "Born to Run" was playing as she threw, and she pierced through Springsteen's "Whoa-oh" from a hundred feet away with little difficulty. The only louder thing we may hear tonight is Celtics whining.
Julian Coley is the fastest kid in New York with a 14.60 in the 100 meters. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
2:01 PM | Randalls Island: Its Own World
Icahn Stadium is the kind of place that can only exist in New York.
Randalls Island is essentially a king-sized anchorage for a freeway. The elevated interstate looms over the stadium like a canyon wall. In quiet moments, you become keenly aware of the constant rumble of traffic. In most parts of the world, there would be nothing of consequence on such a narrow, utilitarian strip of land, except perhaps a Mosquito Control Commission substation living under constant siege conditions.
But land is precious here, so Randalls Island hosts not just Icahn Stadium but ball fields, walking trails, a golf facility and several nature preserves. And Icahn Stadium hosts track fans, passionate about a sport most Americans ignore.
Ironically, they are playing Born to Run at one of the few times no one is actually running at this track meet #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
Track fans whoop with knowing astonishment when Sunette Viljoen wins the women's Javelin competition, setting a new American record at 69.35 meters. They break out the thunderbats for their favorite triple-jumpers. Some of them drink soda out of wine glasses.
And then, during the Youth Boys 4X400 meter relay, they cheer for the winning team, the second place team, and the third place team. With one relay team lagging far behind, they cheer louder. And louder. And louder still, until the last-place runner, teeth clenched in determination, hears a cheer louder than the one the winner received, louder than the one Viljoen received.
Icahn Stadium is a unique, beautiful place. The Adidas Grand Prix is a unique, beautiful event.
1:09 PM | The Road to Macho
As this marathon marches on, the events get progressively more macho.
The morning began with a women's 10K run in Central Park (won by Edna Kiplagat in what felt like 11 minutes), then the Women's Final of the French Open (won by Maria Sharapova in what felt like 11 minutes). Then came a journey into nebbish neverland with the Strat-o-Matic marathon, still underway.
Now, we are at Icahn Stadium on Randall's Island, watching some junior's javelin and waiting for the main events. The Adidas Grand Prix has men's and women's events, but we are still in the non-contact sporting realm. With men's soccer and horse racing coming later this afternoon, we begin to cross over into the traditionally manly pursuits. Which is not to say Strat-o-Matic is not "manly." It just is not quite "traditional."
Later in the evening, we transition from baseball to hockey. Just when you think we have reached the testosterone barrier, it is time for the Pacquiao-Bradley fight. It does not get more macho than boxing, though if there are two guys biting cinder blocks with their teeth in an alleyway somewhere, I will find it and cover it.
The long transition from feminine to ultra-masculine means something, perhaps: it mirrors the progression from dawn to dusk to late night, or from the solemn spirituality of distance running to the cold brutality of getting head-butted by Tim Bradley. It is too early in the day for such philosophizing. But the long journey into sweaty aggression may come to match my state of mind. During the 10K, I made cooing noises at puppies walking through Central Park. By midnight, I may be ready to bludgeon photographer Ben Norman with my laptop bag.
If he does not get me first (eyes darting about suspiciously). 
Oscar Pistorius attempts to qualify for the Olympics at 3:32 p.m. Before that, we have the 1500m men, the 800m women, some high jumps, and more. Stay tuned.
Triple jumper Yargelis Savigne has a rowdy 3-person cheering section here, with thundersticks #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
12:38 PM | En Route to the Adidas Grand Prix
In a cab, in Harlem, heading for Icahn Stadium #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
11:41 AM | The Agony of Defeat
The Strat-o-Matic guys are in the zone. They are no longer munching muffins. They stare down at their cards from their table by the window of Foley's pub. They mumble Strat-speak to one another. Occasionally, they laugh and joke about surprise home runs. They are past hour fifty. They should break the record easily.
Meanwhile, I got to face Strat-o-Matic founder Hal Richman at his own game. Richman does not play Strat-o-Matic much. "When you live the game 60 or 80 hours a week, you tend to stay away from it when you can," he told me. For The Times, he made an exception, grabbing a set of 1927 Yankees cards to battle my 1977 Phillies.
The Yankees won, 8-1. It was a beating. Waite Hoyt pitched a complete game. Babe Ruth homered. Mike Schmidt left five runners on base: proof positive for any Phillies fan that Strat is the most realistic simulation of anything, ever, on the planet.
Richman took time to show me the 1971 Gene Tenace card while thumbing through the A's set. The card, filled with walks, supposedly inspired the young Billy Beane to look at baseball in a different way, valuing on base percentage above batting average. From a little card game to a statistical revolution to a major motion picture: great ideas often have surprising origins.
The sun is out, and there are now patrons at Foley's who are not with the Strat crowd. The bar feels a little more like a bar. But it is time to go: Icahn Stadium and the Adidas Grand Prix awaits. The time for virtual sports has ended. It is time for real sports.
10:42 AM | Marathon Men
Strat-o-Matic combines the fast-paced thrills of baseball, the romantic allure of spreadsheet analysis, and the social acceptability of Dungeons and Dragons. Yet somehow it has never caught on.
I kid because I love: Strat-o-Matic baseball is infectious fun, and I have played for 30 years. In the days before photorealistic video games, a Strat-o-Matic card, laden with columns of codes representing a batter or pitchers statistical tendencies, was the truest representation of a major leaguer a fan could possess, touch, and play with.
Strat-o-Matic baseball was developed by Hal Richman when he was a college student in 1961, but Strat was not the first dice-based simulation ever invented. After World War I, legendary Giants pitcher Christy Mathewson worked out the details of a dice game in his mind while recovering from his wartime injuries. Mathewson showed his notes to feisty Giants manager Jon McGraw, who ate them.
Later, the young Jack Kerouac devised his own baseball card game, based on imaginary players and local sandlot heroes. A sample from both cards, however, shows that Richman's concise style gave him a market edge over the would-be competitor:
Sample Strat-o-Matic card reading: SINGLE** (Translation: Single, runners advance two bases)
Sample Ker-ou-Whactic card reading: On the field the rosy reflections of celestial vapor appeared, and the heart-stab sadness of seeing lovers recede toward the horizon of this too-big world filled me, the hot wind off the stadium flags telling me it was time to leave the people of Denver with their well-ordered lives and straightened ties behind and race tumbleweeds along the prairie ribbon roads again. (Translation: Single, runners advance two bases).
Video games slowly killed the tabletop stars, but the Internet also saved Strat-o-Matic, allowing pockets of fans around the country to link up and form a community. An on-line version of the game - little more than the cards themselves and a die-roller program, with minimal graphic gingerbread - allows fans to play cross-country games. There are other board games that might seem more suited for a Guinness World Record marathon, like Monopoly or Risk, but few games arouse such passion and enthusiasm in their players.
Brett Carrow and Sam Henneman are two such players. The Minnesota natives participate in Strat tournaments and marathons. Carrow earned the title Strat-o-Matic Fanatic in a company-sponsored contest. Henneman started playing when he was 11 years old, hand-copying Carrow's Strat cards so he could have his own teams. They have no intention of stopping immediately when they break the world record for Longest Board Game marathon at 3 PM. They have embarked on a full 32 team tournament of historic teams. They have no intention of stopping until they crown a champion, or pass out face-first onto their RP charts.
With Sharapova victorious, a special treat: me versus Strat o Matic founder Hal Richman, in Strat o Matic baseball #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
They started their session at 9 AM on Thursday, replaying World Series rematch between the 1951 Giants and Dodgers. Jackie Robinson singled to lead off the festivities. A rotating team of official witnesses have kept their eyes on Carrow and Henneman around the clock since, making sure they don't drift off for a nap (they are given some carefully controlled break periods) or grab an XBOX controller and nip off for a game of Halo.
Richman was there when the marathon started on Thursday morning. He said he had no idea that Strat-o-Matic would still have a following 51 years later when he started marketing the game out of his home. "I was just trying to support my family," he said. The man who invented the cards picked a clear favorite to win a tournament that includes teams from the 1911 Philadelphia Athletics to the 2008 Angels. "Oh, the 1927 Yankees," he predicted. I said it was a "clear" favorite, not a surprising one.
But now, here at Foley's Pub, the 1927 Yankees are long gone. The 1966 Dodgers are locked in a tight series with the 1951 Giants. Richman thinks that there may be a finals series between the 1966 Dodgers and 1966 Orioles, a rematch of one of baseball's more forgettable World Series.
Carrow plays so often that his wife baked him a cake for his 10,000th Strat game. "She supports his habit," Richman joked. Henneman completed a 46-hour marathon in April. "By the 30th hour, I was sitting back in my couch, totally relaxed," he said. "The euphoria kicked in."
Richman thinks the 46-hour marathon prepared Henneman well for this record-setting bid. "He's in pretty good shape," he said. 
Both Carrow and Henneman are in their early 30s, young enough to have grown up in an era of realistic video games. They prefer dice, cards, and charts. "You have the thinking aspect," Henneman said. "The video games become mindless, and mind numbing."
Interviewing Strat players in-game is difficult: players spout numerical code and 1950s baseball play-by-play in mid-sentence. "We have been playing together for 20 years three-eleven Roy Campenella two-run home run and it's a great hobby." Carrow was too busy with pitching changes in the bottom of the eighth inning to speak in the preliminary interview. As of now, he is trying to coach Don Drysdale through the late innings of a close game. Drysdale is a horse. So is Carrow.
While they play, I am in for a special treat. I will be facing Richman himself in a Strat-o-Matic game, his 1927 Yankees against my 1977 Phillies. Gotta run: Steve Carlton needs to warm up.
10:20 AM | Errani Service Break Bid Fails
Errani nearly broke service on Sharapova in the fourth game of the second set, but Sharapova rallied back after the second deuce. It is now 6-3, 3-1, and again, this looks like a Sharapova cruise situation.
If you have never been in a bar at 10 a.m., it is quite the experience. A fresh bleach smell wafts from the floor. The decor mocks you. "What are you doing here?" it seems to ask. "Shouldn't you be at home, or out in the sun, or doing something besides sitting in a dark cave while patient waitresses clean glasses and set tables?"
In fact, there is something better to do: play Strat-o-Matic baseball for over 50 hours. More on that a bit later.
10:02 AM | Do Not Blink on Sharapova
Having hustled from Central Park, where Edna Kiplagat won the New York Road Runners Mini 10K, to Foley's Pub on 33rd Street, where two guys are close to breaking a Guinness World Record for longest board game marathon, I looked up to find Maria Sharapova leading 6-3 and breaking service against Sara Errani.
Sharapova is cruising, as she has for most of the French Open, and I fear that in the time it takes to write an elaborate blog post, she will win.
So I will enjoy the match, and some eggs, in a bar at 10 a.m.
9:57 AM | Next Stop: Foley's Pub for Tennis, and a Board Game Marathon
Sharapova is cruising, again. Knew if i didnt hurry i would miss it. At foley"s pub now #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
8:59 AM | Distance Running and Juggling
At the end of the New York Road Runners mini 10K, participants walk a gauntlet. First they get a medal, then a flower, then a drink, then a snack.
That order seems wrong. It should go drink, snack, medal, flower. Or drink, medal, snack, flower.
At the end of the gauntlet there are rows of port-a-potties. At least that order appears to be correct.
There are participants all around the paths of Central Park trying to juggle. Most hold the flower and drink in one hand while munching an apple or bagel with the other. Others, who opted for the Popsicle, ditched the flower altogether so it did not get sticky. The medal goes around the neck, but some are carrying theirs, which is ergonomically all wrong, but dehydration can do funny things to the decision making process.
And the ones still fiddling with their MP3 players risk losing everything.
8:52 AM | Mini 10K
Post race, runners get a medal, then a flower, then a drink, then a snack. Somehow, that order seems wrong. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
8:26 AM | Kiplagat Winning, MP3 Players Failing
The difference between an Olympic distance runner and a casual distance runner at the New York Road Runners Mini 10K:
The Olympian starts the race with a carefully-practice motion, gracefully gliding through her first few paces until she reaches the proper pace and stride for the early stretch.
The casual distance runner fumbles with her MP3 player for about a hundred yards while trying not to crash into the runner in front of her.
MP3 players have a built-in function that makes them become glitchy at the time you need them most, like before long flights or when you need your motivational music to get through a grueling race. The women in the crowded pre-race field, in unison, looked down at their recalcitrant personal stereos, wondered why they weren't hearing their carefully-chosen cardio playlists, then shrugged their shoulders as if to say, oh well, Neil Diamond will do for a few thousand meters.
The participants did not start their MP3 players early because they had to listen to the pre-race instructions and directions. Yes, directions: a race organizer goes through a Google Maps rundown of the course. Is anyone really relying on those directions? Doesn't everyone follow everyone else except the Olympians and marathon champions, who follow the pickup truck full of photographers, strapped in with bungee cords? Luckily, this race does not hinge on exhausted people remember complex directions given from a loudspeaker: everything is well signed and barricaded.
Still, I fear that later today I will run into some lost runner around 110th Street, wondering where she missed the turn. 
And her MP3 player will still not be working.
Edna Kiplagat is about to win the race. More to come.
Lady Marmalade is playing on the speakers. The runners demand more cowbell. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
8:05 AM | 10K Mini Marathon Has Begun
The first 200 yards of any 10K are spent getting the recalcitrant mp3 player to cooperate. #fanathon.
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
7:47 AM | Our National Pastime
The Saturday morning distance run is America's national pastime.
You may never have visited a major league baseball stadium or picked up a bat since the fifth grade. You may have sacrificed playing basketball to age, football to common sense, golf to the recession. Or maybe you never played them at all. But you have participated in a Saturday morning distance run.
You have run five kilometers or ten. You have run through Municipal Park, around Local Lake, from East Side Fire Station to West Side Fire Station. You have run to raise money or raise awareness or lose weight. You have felt the euphoria of the approaching finish line and the self esteem shrinkage of being passed by a pregnant woman. 
Or, if you can't imagine running more than a few feet without zombies-aliens-creditors in pursuit, you have participated by standing behind the tape, clapping and cheering. Spectators are real participants in the Saturday morning distance run. Derek Jeter does not need to hear your cheers. Your wife does.
The New York Road Runners 10K Mini Marathon, now in its 40th year, is not a mini event. There is a $10,000 first-place prize. Running slots sell out weeks in advance. Thousands of women flood Columbus Circle this time every year, stretching and hydrating, alone or in groups, their spouses, children and loved ones offering support while trying not to get in the way. Olympic marathoners compete in the race, including Desiree Davila and Janet Cherobon-Bawcom, who will compete in London this summer. But most of the other runners will arrive by bus or train, from the boroughs or New Jersey. You will see them wearing their numbers on PATH trains and walking up Eighth Avenue. They are us: or our wives, sisters, daughters, mothers and neighbors.
And there are hundreds of thousands of others like them competing in 5K and 10K races around the country on this Saturday morning, or next, or last. There is a 5K run in Philadelphia this morning, another in Granville, Ohio, another in Riverton, Wyoming. There's a 10K in Howell, Michigan. There are many others, their schedules wedged into corners of community bulletin boards, benefiting needy children or anti-drug campaigns. Show up a half-hour early, park in the church lot, get your number in the courthouse basement, start on Elm Street, finish at the middle school, take your kids to a movie afterward.
You run to see if they can do it. You run to beat last year's time. You run because stress and anxiety cannot reach you after your heart rate reaches a certain threshold. You run because you have loved ones who cannot. You run because it is Saturday morning, and the skies are clear, the air fresh, and it is silly not to do something healthful and invigorating and challenging at the start of a promising day.
You run because you love to. I watch because, frankly, I cannot stand to.
7:16 AM | A Race to the Starting Line
The New Jersey Turnpike at dawn: a road for truckers, fisherman, and lost souls.
I am neither a trucker nor a fisherman. And as I drove into a dazzling, layered sunrise, my soul hardly felt lost. But then, the Turnpike split, and in my bleariness I forgot that I am on a multi sport quest today, not simply covering the Giants.
So for a few moments I truly was lost. In Seacaucus.
All is well now on the train to Manhattan for the Central Park 10K. Getting there is half the battle, they say.
Made it to the 10K. And i beat some of the participants! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12
6:30 AM | Saturday's Sports Odyssey Begins 
Saturday's goal is to gorge on sports.
Saturday's goal is to cheer, clap, gasp, laugh, sweat, curse, burp, and maybe cry. It is to be amazed, thrilled, bored, inconvenienced, confused, enervated, exhausted, and inspired. To guzzled iced coffee and diet soda, transfer from subways to buses to cabs, traipse through parking lots, stand in betting lines, sit on bar stools, leap from stadium seats, freeload from press box buffets.
Saturday's goal is to share arenas with champions, occupy the same point on the earth as Olympians, watch winners crowned and records broken. It is to cram as many sports experiences as possible into one day.
Saturday's goal is to be a true fan.
Any transcendence experienced along the way will be purely incidental.
Preparing to shove off. I'll Have Another, if you are reading this, my thoughts are with you today. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO_MTanier)9 Jun 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); BASEBALL (65%); ICE HOCKEY (65%); BURN INJURIES (65%); RUNNING (50%)

PERSON: MARIA SHARAPOVA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



338 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Investigation

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The attorney general assigned two United States attorneys Friday to investigate recent disclosures to the press. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. appointed two United States attorneys Friday to lead investigations into potential leaks of classified information to the media, Charlie Savage reports. The announcement follows calls by members of Congress for inquiries into recent disclosures about national security secrets regarding drone strikes and computer viruses, among other topics.

        
A cache of e-mails recently released by House Republicans details the lengths to which the Obama administration went to secure support for its overhaul of health care, illuminating compromises made with drug industry lobbyists, Peter Baker reports.

        
After trying to seize an opportunity to show his concern for the economy, President Obama found himself instead rushing to clarify a remark Friday after Republicans used his statement that "the private sector is doing fine" to portray him as out of touch, Jackie Calmes reports.
President Obama's Weekly Address:

        
This week Mr. Obama stressed the need to focus on education to strengthen the economy, especially by supporting teachers. He pointed out that Congress has not acted on his proposal to help prevent teachers from losing their jobs and rehire those who had been laid off. "I realize that every governor is dealing with limited resources and many face stark choices when it comes to their budgets," he said. "But that doesn't mean we should just stand by and do nothing. When states struggle, it's up to Congress to step in and help out."
Republican Weekly Address:

        
Representative Erik Paulsen of Minnesota railed against the administration's policies for failing to jump-start the flagging economy in his party's weekly address, emphasizing the House's strides to counter the initiatives Republicans say hurt business. In particular, he pointed to the vote this week to repeal a tax on medical devices, another legislative move chipping away at the president's health care reform law. "The health care law's one-size-fits-all approach is unsustainable and unaffordable, and soon, the Supreme Court may rule it unconstitutional," Mr. Paulsen said. "Republicans are ready to act on patient-centered reforms that protect Americans' access to the care they need."
Washington Happenings:

        
It's a relatively quiet weekend in Washington; neither the president nor the vice president has any public events scheduled.

        
The Early Word: Disapproval
        
The Early Word: Wisconsin, the Next Chapter
        
The Early Word: Paychecks
        
The Early Word: Recall
        
The Weekend Word: Game Changer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MEDICAL DEVICES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (71%); LAYOFFS (66%); DISMISSALS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC HOLDER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



339 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, June 10

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Scott Walker, David Axelrod and Senator John McCain are among the guests on the Sunday shows, discussing the Wisconsin recall vote and national security. 

 BODY:
Since Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin survived the recall effort against him on Tuesday, both parties are trying to determine what - if anything - his victory will mean for the November election.
Mr. Walker will join CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday, along with Gov. Martin O'Malley, Democrat of Maryland and head of the National Governors Association, and Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Plus, the journalists Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein reunite to talk about Watergate, 40 years later.
On "Fox News Sunday," Gov. Mitch Daniels, Republican of Indiana; Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association; and Thea Lee, A.F.L.-C.I.O. deputy chief of staff; will talk about what the outcome means for the fall election.
David Axelrod, senior adviser to President Obama's re-election campaign, appears on ABC's "This Week" and CNN's "State of the Union," weighing in on the recall vote and Mitt Romney's fund-raising momentum. On ABC, Mr. Axelrod and Rick Santorum will also discuss Mr. Obama's standing on the economy, and on CNN, Mr. Axelrod will talk about the campaign surrogates who have gone off-message.
Also on CNN, Senator John McCain of Arizona, ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, will share his views on recent national security-related disclosures to the press, as well as the situation in Syria. On Tuesday, Mr. McCain suggested the Obama administration was purposely leaking information to bolster its image for the election. Representative Peter T. King of New York, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Representative Lynn Woolsey, Democrat of California, will debate about drone attacks.
Carlos M. Gutierrez, former commerce secretary and co-chairman of the Hispanic Steering Committee, "Juntos con Romney," joins Univision's "Al Punto" to talk about Mr. Romney's strategy to appeal to Hispanic voters.
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee, is on Bloomberg's "Political Capital."
On C-Span's "Newsmakers," the chairwoman and the ranking member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee - Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas - discuss their farm bill, which would replace agricultural subsidies with crop insurance.
And TV One's "Washington Watch" features a conversation about the racial injustices of "Stand Your Ground" laws and voter-suppression efforts, as well as Mr. Walker's victory in Wisconsin.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, May 27
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, May 20
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, May 13
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, May 6
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, April 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUDGETS (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (65%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (65%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); AGRICULTURE (60%); STAND YOUR GROUND LAWS (60%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (60%) sunday shows; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (90%); SCOTT WALKER (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); PETER T KING (57%); LYNN C WOOLSEY (57%); DEBBIE STABENOW (57%); PAT ROBERTS (57%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (56%); RICK SANTORUM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



340 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Romney Adviser Takes U.S. Political Debate Overseas

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: A Romney economic adviser criticized President Obama's policy toward crisis-torn Europe in an op-ed article in a German newspaper on Saturday, raising the question of the propriety of taking America's political fights into international affairs. 

 BODY:
A senior economic adviser to Mitt Romney criticized President Obama and his policy toward crisis-torn Europe, and Germany in particular, in an op-ed article in a leading German newspaper on Saturday, raising the question of the propriety of taking America's political fights into international affairs.
The article -- written by R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of the Columbia Business School and a former adviser in the Bush administration, and published in the business journal Handelsblatt -- drew a rebuke from the Obama campaign.
"In a foreign news outlet, Governor Romney's top economic adviser both discouraged essential steps that need to be taken to promote economic recovery and attempted to undermine America's foreign policy abroad," said Ben LaBolt, press secretary for the president's re-election campaign.
Every presidential election seems to test the frequently quoted cold war-era axiom of former Senator Arthur Vandenberg, a Republican who cooperated with President Harry S. Truman, that "politics stops at the water's edge" -- though even then the rule was often observed in the breach. Separately, the Hubbard critique illustrates how the austerity-versus-stimulus debate concerning Europe is also a proxy for the ideological fight over fiscal policy that Democrats and Republicans are waging in this country.
"Unfortunately, the advice of the U.S. government regarding solutions to the crisis is misleading. For Europe and especially for Germany," Mr. Hubbard wrote, according to a translation of his article from the Handelsblatt Web site.
He opposed what he described as the Obama administration's efforts "to persuade Germany to stand up financially weak governments and banks in the euro zone so that the Greek crisis would not spread to other states."
"These recommendations are not only unwise," he added, "they also reveal ignorance of the causes of the crisis and of a growth trend in the future."
Mr. Hubbard proposed a classic conservative pro-austerity, anti-Keynesian approach, arguing that cutting government spending will restore public confidence, encourage growth and avert future tax increases.
"Long-term confidence in solid government financing shores up growth and enables the same scope for short-term transitional assistance," he said. "Mitt Romney, Obama's Republican opponent, understands this very well and advises a gradual fiscal consolidation for the U.S.: structural reform to stimulate growth."
Mr. Obama and his Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, are in the camp with economists who argue that the German-led push for austerity in Europe -- at a time when businesses and consumers are too weak to spend -- has produced a spiral of job losses, belt-tightening and, lately, a backlash against several governments.
But, Mr. Hubbard wrote, "President Obama's advice to the Germans and Europe has therefore the same flaws as his own economic policy -- that it pays for itself over the long term if we focus on short-term business promotion."
When Mr. Obama ran for president in 2008, he received some criticism for a foreign trip that included a speech in Berlin before 200,000 Germans. At the time, Chancellor Angela Merkel objected to plans to use the city's historic Brandenburg Gate as a backdrop for what a Merkel spokesman called "electioneering abroad," leading Mr. Obama to speak at another site. But Mr. Obama did not explicitly criticize Bush administration policies, despite their prominence in the American debate that year. He mainly extolled the partnership between the United States and Germany -- and Europe, more broadly -- in promoting freedom and prosperity around the globe.
A Democrat with experience in foreign policy and presidential campaigns, who asked not to be identified as weighing into the debate, suggested that the Vandenberg rule had lost resonance in a polarized age. "The 'water's edge' is changing, and not just because of climate change," he said. "It's too bad, but there it is." 
The Romney campaign declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WRITERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); TAX LAW (61%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (60%) Hubbard, R Glenn; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Handelsblatt; Republican Party; Europe; Germany; United States; Elections; On Politics; Political Times; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Handelsblatt; Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%) Hubbard, R Glenn; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe; Germany; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



341 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: How Racist Are We? Ask Google

BYLINE: SETH STEPHENS-DAVIDOWITZ


HIGHLIGHT: Research that compares the use of racially charged search terms with voting patterns suggests that Barack Obama's race lowers his chance of re-election. 

 BODY:
Barack Obama won 52.9 percent of the popular vote in 2008 and 365 electoral votes, 95 more than he needed. Many naturally concluded that prejudice was not a major factor against a black presidential candidate in modern America. My research, a comparison of Americans' Google searches and their voting patterns, found otherwise. If my results are correct, racial animus cost Mr. Obama many more votes than we may have realized.
Quantifying the effects of racial prejudice on voting is notoriously problematic. Few people admit bias in surveys. So I used a new tool, Google Insights, which tells researchers how often words are searched in different parts of the United States.
Can we really quantify racial prejudice in different parts of the country based solely on how often certain words are used on Google? Not perfectly, but remarkably well. Google, aggregating information from billions of searches, has an uncanny ability to reveal meaningful social patterns. "God" is Googled more often in the Bible Belt, "Lakers" in Los Angeles.
The conditions under which people use Google - online, most likely alone, not participating in an official survey - are ideal for capturing what they are really thinking and feeling. You may have typed things into Google that you would hesitate to admit in polite company. I certainly have. The majority of Americans have as well: we Google the word "porn" more often than the word "weather."
And many Americans use Google to find racially charged material. I performed the somewhat unpleasant task of ranking states and media markets in the United States based on the proportion of their Google searches that included the word "nigger(s)." This word was included in roughly the same number of Google searches as terms like "Lakers," "Daily Show," "migraine" and "economist."
A huge proportion of the searches I looked at were for jokes about African-Americans. (I did not include searches that included the word "nigga" because these searches were mostly for rap lyrics.) I used data from 2004 to 2007 because I wanted a measure not directly influenced by feelings toward Mr. Obama. From 2008 onward, "Obama" is a prevalent term in racially charged searches.
The state with the highest racially charged search rate in the country was West Virginia. Other areas with high percentages included western Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, upstate New York and southern Mississippi.
Once I figured out which parts of the country had the highest racially charged search rates, I could test whether Mr. Obama underperformed in these areas. I predicted how many votes Mr. Obama should have received based on how many votesJohn Kerry received in 2004 plus the average gain achieved by other 2008 Democratic Congressional candidates. The results were striking: The higher the racially charged search rate in an area, the worse Mr. Obama did.
Consider two media markets, Denver and Wheeling (which is a market evenly split between Ohio and West Virginia). Mr. Kerry received roughly 50 percent of the votes in both markets. Based on the large gains for Democrats in 2008, Mr. Obama should have received about 57 percent of votes in both Denver and Wheeling. Denver and Wheeling, though, exhibit different racial attitudes. Denver had the fourth lowest racially charged search rate in the country. Mr. Obama won 57 percent of the vote there, just as predicted. Wheeling had the seventh highest racially charged search rate in the country. Mr. Obama won less than 48 percent of the Wheeling vote.
Add up the totals throughout the country, and racial animus cost Mr. Obama three to five percentage points of the popular vote. In other words, racial prejudice gaveJohn McCain the equivalent of a home-state advantage nationally.
Yes, Mr. Obama also gained some votes because of his race. But in the general election this effect was comparatively minor. The vast majority of voters for whom Mr. Obama's race was a positive were liberal, habitual voters who would have voted for any Democratic presidential candidate. Increased support and turnout from African-Americans added only about one percentage point to Mr. Obama's totals.
If my findings are correct, race could very well prove decisive against Mr. Obama in 2012. Most modern presidential elections are close. Losing even two percentage points lowers the probability of a candidate's winning the popular vote by a third. And prejudice could cost Mr. Obama crucial states like Ohio, Florida and even Pennsylvania.
There is the possibility, of course, that racial prejudice will play a smaller role in 2012 than it did in 2008, now that the country is familiar with a black president. Some recent events, though, suggest otherwise. I mentioned earlier that the rate of racially charged searches in West Virginia was No. 1 in the country and that the state showed a strong aversion to Mr. Obama in 2008. It recently held its Democratic presidential primary, in which Mr. Obama was challenged by a convicted felon. The felon, who is white, won 41 percent of the vote.
In 2008, Mr. Obama rode an unusually strong tail wind. The economy was collapsing. The Iraq war was unpopular. Republicans took most of the blame. He was able to overcome the major obstacle of continuing racial prejudice in the United States. In 2012, the tail wind is gone; the obstacle likely remains.

        
Obama and the New Freedom
        
The Uses of Polarization
        
Not Afraid to Talk About Race
        
Obama on the High Wire
        
Believing in Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ETHNICITY (76%); RELIGION (68%); RAP MUSIC (50%) Barack Obama; Google; Google Insights; presidential election of 2004; presidential election of 2008; presidential election of 2012; race; racism; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2012; Race and Ethnicity; States (US); Google Inc; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%) Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



342 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Family Way

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was surprised by Judith Warner's statement, in her interesting and articulate review of ''The Conflict,'' by Elisabeth Badinter, and Madeleine M. Kunin's ''New Feminist Agenda'' (May 13), that state support for mothers and freeing them from ''all-consuming motherhood'' is predicated on mothers' having an emotional on-off switch. Whoever would imagine that such arrangements work only if a mother's child never enters her mind while the child is at day care? 
PAULA J. CAPLAN Cambridge, Mass. The writer is a fellow of the Women and Public Policy Program at the Harvard Kennedy School.
To the Editor:
Judith Warner notes that ''the culture of work'' as well as ''the culture of motherhood'' must change ''for the promise of the women's movement to bear full fruit.'' I agree, and I was happy to read her summary of Kunin's argument that ''feminists who want to fight for wide-ranging family-friendly policies must make far-reaching, sometimes unnatural-seeming alliances.''
However, this is not a new proposition. The little-known ''movement of housewives'' during the New Deal did precisely this. Campaigns aimed at access to subsidized child care for working mothers, equal pay and seniority rights for women workers, and cost-of-living controls prompted working-class housewives to collaborate with diverse allies. Today groups like MomsRising .org and organized labor should heed Kunin's call and look back to these earlier movements. It is not motherhood that is the real issue; it is the social and economic conditions of American homes today.
EMILY E. LABARBERA TWAROG Chicago The writer is an assistant professor in the School of Labor and Employment Relations, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
To the Editor:
Judith Newman, in her review of Anne Enright's ''Making Babies'' (May 13), asserts that children are not ''that interesting,'' and that ''mind-numbing boredom . . . constitutes 95 percent of child rearing.'' To someone like me, who has always found children fascinating and been charmed by their company, this is an outrageous generalization. It's outrageous even if you feel the way she does, since no one should assume that her perspective is shared by the rest of humankind.
LINDA H. ZONANA Branford, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); CHILD CARE (75%); FAMILY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); COST OF LIVING (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



343 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer Falk, Anthony Corrao

 BODY:
Jennifer Eden Falk and Anthony Nicholas Corrao are to be married Sunday evening at Riverpark, a restaurant in Manhattan. Rabbi Michael A. Mellen is to officiate.
Ms. Falk, 40, who will keep her name, is the executive director of the Union Square Partnership, a nonprofit economic development organization that most recently completed a $20 million renovation of the north end of Union Square Park in Manhattan. Until 2006, she was the first deputy press secretary to New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. She is on the board of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York and is a chairwoman of the Celebrate Israel Committee, which sponsors the annual Celebrate Israel Parade in Manhattan. She graduated cum laude from the University of Rochester. 
She is a daughter of June R. Falk of New Fairfield, Conn., and the late Eugene A. Falk. The bride's father was a lawyer with Lex Terrae, a title insurance company in Manhattan.
Mr. Corrao, 46, runs a wealth management concern that bears his name in Manhattan. He is also pursuing a doctorate in management at Pace University, where he teaches business management as an adjunct professor. He is on the board of the Manhattan Council of the Boy Scouts of America, and the board of the Francesco Loccisano Memorial Foundation, an organization in Brooklyn that provides support to children with cancer and their families. He graduated from Boston University and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh.
He is a son of JoAnne N. Corrao and Anthony J. Corrao of Stewart Manor, N.Y. The bridegroom's mother retired as the administrative assistant in the guidance department of Elmont Memorial High School in Elmont, N.Y. His father owns the Antonio Corrao Corporation, an importer and distributor of Italian food products in Floral Park, N.Y., that was founded in 1908.
The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); TITLE INSURANCE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (54%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



344 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: Nurturing a Baby and a Business

BYLINE: By HANNAH SELIGSON

 BODY:
FLEDGLING companies are like sticky-fingered toddlers. You've got to watch them every single minute.
And yet a small group of women is proving that it's possible to start a high-growth technology company and have children at the same time. They are dispelling the image of the tech entrepreneur as a single, usually male, wunderkind. Consider Jennifer Fleiss, 28, co-founder of Rent the Runway, an online dress and accessories rental site with 2.5 million members. She gave birth to a daughter, Daniella, in December.
And there's Carley Roney, 43, co-founder of the XO Group, a publicly traded media company valued at $300 million. Her three children range in age from 4 to 14.
Divya Gugnani, meanwhile, is the founder and chief executive of Send the Trend, an e-commerce site for accessories and beauty items that was bought by QVC in February. In May, Ms. Gugnani, 35, gave birth to her son, Ashvin. And the list goes on. 
The average age of a first-time founder of a company is 39 -- meaning that start-up life for some entrepreneurs is less about video game marathons on Saturdays and more about balancing parental responsibilities.
Ms. Fleiss, Ms. Roney and Ms. Gugnani all have husbands with high-powered jobs, so there are no stay-at-home fathers to take charge of their households. On the other hand, financial resources for child care are ample.
Yet much of the investment world, heavily dominated by men, remains skeptical about a woman's ability to combine running a fast-growing tech start-up and motherhood, Ms. Gugnani says. She raised $3 million from investors before becoming pregnant.
''All of the women I know who went to raise money did it when they didn't have kids,'' she says. ''There is total discrimination in the start-up world against women who are pregnant.''
Making pregnancy and motherhood a focal point of the investment process is an outdated way of thinking, she adds.
Female entrepreneurs are less numerous and raise less money than their male counterparts. Women make up 10 percent of the founders at high-growth tech companies, ''and they raise 70 percent less money than men do because of their lack of access to capital,'' says Lesa Mitchell of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, where she is vice president for initiatives on advancing innovation.
Ms. Roney says venture capitalists will assert that a female entrepreneur's pregnancy and motherhood aren't factors in deciding whether to invest in a firm -- that it's all about good ideas and the management team. ''But I can pretty much guarantee you, behind closed doors it is a factor,'' she says.
That is why, Ms. Roney says, ''in those first moments of having a business and having a baby, the baby was a complete and total secret.''
At a start-up, which lacks much corporate infrastructure, founders typically do the jobs of at least five people. ''The expectation of the devotion of your time, particularly if you are a founder, is that you should be doing this and nothing else -- if you aren't, you are not giving everything you have to the company,'' Ms. Roney explains.
Ms. Fleiss was able to secure $15 million in Series B venture funding last year, shortly before she gave birth. If she had been pregnant as she pitched the company in the first round of financing, when it was still an unproved entity, she says she would have talked to mentors and advisers about how to present that fact.
Investors do need a full picture of a founder's other life commitments, Ms. Fleiss contends.
''I don't agree that men should be considered in the same exact context as women around aspects of raising a family,'' she says. Certain factors like breast-feeding and body recovery require a women to take more time off, she notes. Ms. Fleiss took 10 weeks of maternity leave, she says, while her husband, Andrew M. P. Fleiss, a principal at the private equity firm Liberty Partners in Manhattan, took a week off.
Aileen Lee, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif., put it this way: ''If someone was having some surgery that was going to put them out for three months, it's something you should consider, with a man or a woman. What is the impact of having the C.E.O. or visionary out for three months?''
Ms. Lee stresses that pregnancy is not a red flag for her, and that she backs companies for the long run. Of her 11 portfolio companies, three are run by women with children, including Rent the Runway, Ms. Fleiss's company.
LAST year, Paige Craig, an angel investor in 61 tech companies, said on the Business Insider site that ''I'm probably going to get myself in a bit of trouble here'' before he stated that ''a pregnant founder/C.E.O. is going to fail her company.'' He wrote the post after deciding to invest in a crowdsourced financing company called ProFounder, started in 2009. One of the founders, Jessica Jackley, he discovered before making his decision, was pregnant with twins.
Mr. Craig says he was confident in Ms. Jackley and wrote the post not as a rallying cry against investing in women with children, but to raise the question: ''So I have this bias, let me dig in, and is it justified?''
If investors meet a male founder of a company, they don't care whether he has two or three children because they assume that his wife will take care of them, Mr. Craig says. ''But with a female founder,'' he adds, ''it's a whole different story.''
(ProFounder shut down its operations earlier this year, citing the regulatory environment for crowdfunding. Ms. Jackley, who is also a co-founder of the online lending site Kiva, is now a venture partner at the Collaborative Fund.)
The issue of children, it seems, plays differently for male founders.
Neil Blumenthal, 31, co-founder of Warby Parker, an eyewear seller, says his family responsibilities never came up with investors, though his wife, Rachel, is also an entrepreneur and was pregnant at the time he and his co-founders sought investments. Their son, Griffin, is now 14 months old.
He says his wife, who runs Rachel Leigh, a jewelry company, deals with more of the child care -- about a 60-40 split -- because his company is younger and in a more intense stage of growth.
David Liu is C.E.O. of the XO Group, which he founded with his wife, Ms. Roney. He says that they ''co-parent,'' but that the division of labor sometimes means that he travels more for work so that Ms. Roney can be at home.
Like others, Mr. Liu sees a double standard in the start-up investment world. ''I think there are a lot of challenges for women because V.C.'s are thinking: 'Uh-oh. When are those women going to get pregnant? When are they going to get distracted?' I think that kind of stuff is pervasive, and it's unfortunate.''
But some investors say they truly don't factor motherhood into the equation. ''Whether a female founder is pregnant, has children or is planning to have children is not a concern of mine, and frankly none of my business,'' said Brad Feld, who has done early-stage investing for 20 years and is managing director of the Foundry Group, an investment firm based in Boulder, Colo.
Mr. Feld says those issues have never been discussed at the firm. Of the 43 companies in which it has invested, however, only two were started by women, one of whom has children.
Ms. Fleiss, Ms. Roney and Ms. Gugnani are hardly alone in finding ways to start companies while caring for young children.
Jessica Herrin, 39, has two daughters and is the founder and chief executive of Stella & Dot, a social sales company based in San Francisco that generates more than $100 million in revenue a year. She says she ''didn't want to be on some venture capital firm's timeline about how fast and when I should grow my company when I had two young kids and was still nursing.''
Instead, she approached a few individual investors who had backed her previous company, WeddingChannel.com, and raised $350,000. (WeddingChannel was acquired by the XO Group in 2006.)
Before she accepted a check, Ms. Herrin says, she told Doug Mackenzie, her investor at Radar Partners: ''This company is going to have an initial slower pace of growth than it otherwise would because I want to go to swim class with my daughter on Friday afternoon.''
Alexandra Wilkis Wilson, 35, is a co-founder of the Gilt Groupe, the shopping Web site. In 2010, two and half years after the company started, Ms. Wilson had her first child, a son. Her co-founder, Alexis Maybank, 37, has two children, one born in February this year and the other in September 2010.
Ms. Wilson, who is also head of national sales for the Gilt City site, says that it's possible to have children and run a start-up, but that timing is everything. ''Back in 2007, when we had eight employees, it would have been hard to balance with the pace I was working.'' Now, the company has 900 employees, and it's possible to delegate more of her responsibilities, she says.
These women say it takes a village -- a community that includes nannies, in-laws, friends, supportive spouses and baby sitters -- to make it all work. Living within walking distance of the office also helps. (Ms. Fleiss often goes home for quick visits during the day.)
And there is no sleeping in. Ms. Herrin's day starts between 4 and 5 a.m. She works until 6:30 a.m., goes for a run and returns home to have breakfast with her daughters and to see them off to school. From 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., it's a mixture of meetings, Skype sessions and strategizing. She is home by 6:30 p.m. to have dinner with her family.
Ms. Herrin says her husband, Chad, vice president of a software company, is a big help. He makes breakfast and often walks the girls to school. ''He's usually plowed through the older one's homework by the time I get home,'' she says. And he picks up each daughter from school at least once a week and goes to watch them at ballet class.
MS. FLEISS is up at 6:30 a.m. to feed Daniella. Then she goes for a run. ''I run faster now that I have less time and try to cram in the same mileage,'' she says. She gets to the office about 9 a.m. for meetings. Later in the morning, her nanny brings Daniella to the office for a quick visit. Meetings and calls fill the rest of the day. (This is between pumping breast milk every three hours.)
In the evenings, Ms. Fleiss often has a speaking engagement or a work-related event. By 8 p.m. she is home to feed Daniella, have dinner with her husband, go through e-mail and watch some reality TV.
Ms. Fleiss's husband took care of Daniella for three days while she was in Los Angeles for work. They alternate doing the morning feeding. At night, he often puts the baby to sleep while his wife reads and replies to e-mail.
Outside help is essential. Ms. Roney says: ''I barely have time to put on lip gloss. Luckily my assistant fills my work closet with makeup and dresses so I can attempt to look presentable for the potential meetings and TV segments I may have that day.''
To be sure, juggling at this intensity is not for the faint of heart. ''I can't say I would recommend this life for a new mom,'' Ms. Herrin said. Keep in mind, she says, that ''having a newborn is such a precious time that goes by so fast.''
Looking ahead, investors may find themselves at a disadvantage if they don't invest in companies run by women, including those with children. That's because ''women are going to be a huge force in developing Web and mobile companies,'' says Ms. Lee at Kleiner Perkins.
Or as Ms. Roney put it, ''Women are going to come up with the best ideas for women, who are driving our economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Fleiss, co-founder of Rent the Runway, secured venture funding before giving birth to her daughter, Daniella. Female entrepreneurs said pregnancy and motherhood can affect the ability to get financing.(BU1)
Carley Roney, co-founder of the XO Group, a media company, with sons Cairo, 8, and Dublin, 4.
 Divya Gugnani, founder of Send the Trend, with her infant son, Ashvin, at the company in Midtown Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); MEN (89%); WOMEN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (79%); FUNDRAISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: XO GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: XOXO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



345 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Forced to Early Social Security, Unemployed Pay a Steep Price

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. -- This retirement oasis in the desert has long beckoned those who want to spin out their golden years playing golf and sitting by the pool in the arid sunshine.
But for Clare Keany, who turned 62 last fall and cannot find work, it feels more like a prison. Just a few miles from the gated estates of corporate chieftains and Hollywood stars, Ms. Keany lives in a tiny mobile home, barely getting by on little more than $1,082 a month from Social Security.
''I would rather be functioning and having a job somewhere,'' said Ms. Keany, whose pixie haircut, trim build and crinkling smile suggest someone much younger than her years. ''I really don't enjoy living like this. I've got too much to do still.''
Even as most Americans are delaying retirement to bolster their savings accounts, the recession and its protracted aftermath have forced many older people who are out of work to draw Social Security much earlier than they had planned. 
According to an analysis by Steve Goss, chief actuary for the Social Security Administration, about 200,000 more people filed initial claims in 2009 and 2010 than the agency had predicted before the recession and he said the trend most likely continued in 2011 and 2012, though that is harder to quantify. The most likely reason is joblessness.
Ms. Keany had always expected to work into her 70s and add to her retirement cushion. But after losing her job as an executive assistant at an advertising agency in 2008, she searched fruitlessly for full-time work and exhausted her unemployment benefits. For a while, she strung together odd jobs and lived off her 401(k) retirement and profit-sharing accounts. Then, this year, with her savings depleted and no job offers in sight, she reluctantly applied for Social Security.
Gazing out the window where the Santa Rosa mountains rise behind the mobile home park, she said, ''It just seems a waste of a life, to be honest.''
Drawing Social Security early has repercussions that will be hard to overcome even if the economy -- and her work prospects -- improve. By collecting four years shy of her full retirement age, Ms. Keany will receive a reduced monthly benefit for the rest of her life. Those who collect early get 20 to 30 percent less a month than they would get if they waited until full retirement age, which varies by year of birth. People in Ms. Keany's age bracket are expected to live an average of close to 23 more years.
''The most potent lever that individuals can pull in trying to get themselves a secure retirement income is to postpone claiming'' Social Security, said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.
As recently as a decade ago, half of those eligible claimed Social Security at 62. But that share has been falling because people are living longer and still want to work as well as shore up retirement funds. That makes it even more galling for those who are forced to claim early because of unemployment. Several people interviewed mentioned blows to their self-esteem along with abandoned dreams of a more comfortable old age.
According to an analysis by Richard W. Johnson, director of the retirement policy program at the Urban Institute, 37 percent of older workers who lost their jobs between 2008 and 2011 and did not return to work ended up claiming Social Security as soon as they turned 62.
Ms. Keany, who was born in Britain, was making $64,000 a year as an administrative manager for a boutique advertising agency in Santa Monica when the firm lost two of its biggest clients in one week. She has nearly three decades of experience in the United States. She has managed offices, arranged visits by foreign dignitaries, composed employee handbooks and finessed demanding bosses. She said she had also run errands for movie producers, organized home offices and coordinated the administrative details of a drug study.
Those years of experience now work against her, she thinks. ''I'm overly qualified, overly skilled,'' she said.
Her age is also most likely an impediment. After they lose a job, older workers tend to have a much harder time finding another than younger workers.
A Government Accountability Office report found that just under a third of those 55 to 64 who lost their jobs from 2007 through 2009 had found full-time work by January 2010, compared with 41 percent of people 25 to 54. The median duration of unemployment for those 55 and older was 34.1 weeks in May, according to the Labor Department, in contrast to 22 weeks for all jobless people over 16.
Ms. Keany, who is single and has no children, tried a change of geography. Because the economy in California was so weak, she moved in with friends in Charlotte, N.C., three years ago in hopes of having better luck there. She signed up with employment offices and volunteered, but did not find paying work.
Another friend invited her to stay on the Outer Banks of North Carolina, where Ms. Keany eventually began work at a women's recovery house in exchange for room and utilities. Then Hurricane Irene hit last August and damaged the house. Ms. Keany could not afford to stay.
In a panic, she used the last of her savings to move to Palm Springs last October and buy a $19,000 one-bedroom mobile home in the same park where friends lived two doors down.
''I was so frantic at that point and I was at my wit's end,'' said Ms. Keany, saying she still planned to find a job. ''I thought at least with Palm Springs it's a retirement resort community and I know there's a lot of business here as well.''
She scoured Craigslist for affluent residents seeking personal assistants. She took a one-month job in Los Angeles, chauffeuring the principal actor on a movie. She applied for a job as a concierge at a Marriott Hotel, but withdrew after hearing it offered only eight hours a week.
Finally, in January, she gave in and filed for Social Security. Her monthly check covers the $336 mobile home park fee plus utilities, her cellphone bill, insurance and a satellite dish. She is also paying $100 a month in credit card debt. To save money, she has canceled the data plan on her BlackBerry and cut back on fresh fruits and vegetables.
After a wind storm blew out a window, she covered it with a tarp because she could not afford to replace the glass.
Ms. Keany is still hoping to find work. Social Security recipients younger than full retirement age can earn up to $14,640 a year without sacrificing any of their monthly benefit. At Ms. Keany's age, for every $2 earned over that amount, Social Security deducts $1 in benefits.
This month, she flew back to the Outer Banks to stay with friends and work part time in two gift shops over the summer. If she cannot find permanent work in North Carolina, she plans to return to Palm Springs in the fall.
She is discouraged by what she sees as youth-obsessed employers. ''We're already has-beens, which is so sad,'' Ms. Keany said. ''Some of us are still pretty productive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clare Keany lives in a tiny mobile home in California, barely getting by on little more than $1,082 a month from Social Security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); TRENDS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TRAILER PARKS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (67%); MOUNTAINS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



346 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Shh! Scholars Fight Over Library Plan

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
In the mid-1990s, when digital life had just arrived and branches of Barnes & Noble were embedding themselves in the city's neighborhoods like moths in a coat rack, it would have been hard to foresee a time, well into the next millennium, when the matter of libraries might ignite passion and fury. And yet here we are. During recent weeks, the debate surrounding the New York Public Library's plan to expand its central branch at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street has fiercely intensified in print, online and in public forums. Amid the heat and acrimony, few have taken the time to recognize what this might signify for the progress of civilization in a world otherwise dominated by 140-character discussions of ''Mob Wives.''
The New York Public Library -- referring both to the system's research facilities, chief among them the building at Fifth and 42nd, and the 87 branches in Manhattan and the Bronx and on Staten Island where books circulate -- has shared the fate of other cultural institutions in our economy. 
Severely constrained finances have forced it to restructure. The past few years have seen reductions in staff, shorter hours, fewer acquisitions. In order to generate financing, the library's board of trustees gave preliminary approval this year to a plan that would sell off the physically deteriorating Mid-Manhattan branch on Fifth Avenue and the Science, Industry and Business Library, a few blocks south.
The proceeds, estimated at $200 million, would be put toward the renovation of the main branch, which has been reconceived to serve both ecumenical and esoteric tastes.
It is this move toward consolidation, and what critics of the plan believe it symbolizes -- the library's becoming ''a busy social center,'' a petition said, or a marble floor ''loud with the squeak of Reeboks,'' as the biographer Edmund Morris put it in an Op-Ed piece in The New York Times -- that has caused such displeasure. Several hundred writers, scholars and others have petitioned the library to rethink a strategy that they believe would compromise the mission of the central branch, which, in the new order, would exist both as a research institution where anyone might walk in and request first-edition Portuguese translations of Flaubert and a circulating library where they could go home with the DVDs of the second season of ''Downton Abbey.''
Are these fears of diminished integrity and purpose warranted? It is not easy to see that they are. The two areas would be distinctly separate from each other with different entrances. Under the new configuration, users of the research arm would gain access to more quiet reading and writing space rather than less, the library said. There is great concern about the physical cost of creating the new common space, but the rewards would be substantial: enhanced computer use, literacy classes and educational events, said the library's president, Anthony W. Marx.
While critics of the plan have deplored attacks that their view is elitist, none, including Charles Petersen in an exhaustive two-part essay on the Web site of the literary journal n+1, have offered a convincing case for why one of the greatest architectural spaces in the city shouldn't be shared by more people, some of whom might not have online access at home. More and more, information about public assistance, for example, is made available electronically. English-language classes offered in the heart of Midtown, where thousands of hotel and restaurant workers spend their days, seem like an undeniable positive.
The expansion plan currently calls for two million volumes to be moved to an offsite center in New Jersey, where three million volumes in the research collection are already stored. Determining which materials are least vital -- which can be packed off -- is a woefully inexact science because the library at any time maintains only the request records of the previous year. Unbelievably, the library has no official memory of what was in use, say, 16 months ago, nor can it predict where demand will lie.
''We can't say that someone isn't going to walk in the door tomorrow and say, 'Show me a directory of Southern sawmills from 1917,' '' Mr. Marx explained in his office recently.
And yet, let's imagine that someone did. The worst-case scenario in all of this is that a visitor might have to wait a day or more for a book to be delivered from storage (though some digital versions might be available immediately), which is less than ideal, but something decidedly short of catastrophic, particularly in the world of academia and independent scholarship, where urgency has rarely been an operative paradigm and a journal article submitted in spring 2012 might appear in print sometime in fall 2014.
It might be easier to join the protest if the library's plan didn't have as one of its most vocal proponents Robert Darnton, a library trustee who is himself a Rhodes scholar, a pre-eminent librarian and one of the academy's most celebrated historians of France. Several years ago, a television writer I know who sat on a panel with Mr. Darnton at Harvard, where he teaches, was told he had never seen ''The Sopranos.'' It is hard to see someone like this as a populist crusader intent on squashing the significance of research and turning the library into the Circle Line.
But what the debate suggests, and why it should not be dismissed, is the extent to which a certain kind of intellectual life, a certain kind of quiet existence, has been marginalized in New York. Beneath the rhetoric is a sense of hurt feelings and betrayal by a city that seems to ever narrow its status definitions to exclude all but the wealthy.
The city is contributing $150 million to the library's new plan, but the money is contingent on a specific way forward. It has been approved for the renovation of the central branch, Marc LaVorgna, a spokesman for the mayor, confirmed. If the library decided instead to refurbish the Mid-Manhattan branch rather than sell it off -- a course critics would prefer -- it would risk losing the money altogether.
What is truly lamentable is that the renovation is being designed by Norman Foster, the celebrity British architect, rather than a talented, perhaps lesser-known New Yorker who might have had the chance to begin an important career. The plan allows for many good things, but it also lets the Bloomberg administration assist in erecting another gleaming monument to itself.
It isn't the end of rarefied learning we really need to fear; it is the death of modesty.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: REFERENCES: Periodicals are part of the collection of the main research branch of the New York Public Library that may be moved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); PETITIONS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



347 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Second Month of Slow Economic Growth in China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The Chinese economy, widely seen until the last few weeks as the strongest remaining locomotive that could drag the global economy back from the brink of recession, showed a second month of anemic growth in May and performed even worse than the already lowered expectations of most economists.
Growth in industrial production, retail sales and investment in fixed assets like factories and office buildings was little changed from April, according to data released on Saturday afternoon in Beijing by China's National Bureau of Statistics. Some economists had considered the April figures to be a fluke and had predicted a rebound in May, when the Chinese government began measures to rekindle growth. 
April had been the weakest month in China since 2001 for growth in fixed-asset investment, and May was slightly weaker still. Before adjustment for inflation, retail sales grew even more slowly in May than in April.
But retail sales were a little stronger in May after they were adjusted for inflation, which has slowed steadily this spring.
Industrial production grew at a slightly faster pace in May from a year earlier, 9.6 percent, than it had in April, when growth was 9.3 percent.
And in an unexpected piece of good news released Sunday morning, China's exports and imports both grew twice as fast last month as economists had expected. Exports rose 15.3 percent, triple the pace in April, and imports grew 12.7 percent after stalling the month before.
Some economists said that if demand for China's exports held up long enough for the Chinese government to start the many infrastructure projects approved in recent weeks, the country's economy could avoid a more serious downturn.
''If this trend continues, and if exports don't collapse to the extent that millions of workers are sacked, continued policy fine-tuning, rather than a serious stimulus, should be enough to generate'' economic growth of 8 percent for the full year, said a research report on Saturday from CLSA, an Asian brokerage firm.
China's General Administration of Customs is expected to release export and import data for May late Sunday morning in Beijing.
China's increasingly apparent economic struggles come at an already difficult time for the global economy. Economies across Europe's periphery have already stalled, and the Continent's core has begun to struggle. Unemployment has started to inch back up in the United States, while growth has also faltered in the large emerging markets of Brazil and India.
Many economists are wary of Chinese economic statistics. Studies over the years have suggested that local, provincial and national government agencies tend to smooth out the ups and downs of the business cycle by underreporting growth during booms and overstating it during downturns.
Some local Chinese officials, leery of informing provincial leaders about economic troubles in their jurisdictions, have been telling big companies to overstate growth, with an assurance that local taxes will be levied on the true rate, said two managers in China who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid legal difficulties with the authorities.
One of the most reliable proxies for growth has been electricity generation, because a handful of big companies dominate the industry and report data directly to Beijing. Electricity generation grew only 3.2 percent in May compared with a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Saturday, far short of its usual double-digit pace. That was up from year-over-year growth of 1.5 percent in April.
Excluding the effects of the Chinese New Year, April and May were the two slowest months for growth in electricity generation since the spring of 2009, when many export factories temporarily closed during the global financial crisis.
Since China relies on coal to generate four-fifths of its electricity, very slow growth may have a small environmental benefit, by slowing emissions of toxic gases and global-warming gases.
Other data offers hints that the Chinese economy may still be slowing. The China Iron and Steel Association said on Friday that the country's average daily tonnage of steel production from May 21 through May 31 had dropped 3.9 percent compared with May 11 through 20.
Cement production, another indicator of vitality in the construction sector, was up only 4.3 percent in May from a year earlier, but that was slightly better than an increase of 4 percent in April, according to official data released on Saturday. China's leaders deliberately popped a real estate bubble last summer because of concerns that middle-class families had been priced out of homeownership in many cities.
Real estate brokers say prices have fallen as much as 20 percent since then, and work at many construction sites has slowed to a crawl.
Another exception to the gloomy statistics released on Saturday was auto sales, which rose 22.6 percent in May from a year earlier. But sales were weak in May 2011 because the tsunami and subsequent nuclear power plant meltdowns in eastern Japan disrupted the supply of parts for the assembly in China of many popular Japanese models.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



348 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: How to Fly V.I.P., Perk by Perk

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
Don't fly enough to earn elite status on an airline? There are plenty of other ways to buy those perks and preferred treatment, either a la carte or through the right credit card. Here is how you can fly like an elite passenger, even for one trip a year, on several airlines. (Carriers without an elite program were not included.)
American Airlines 
UPGRADES Passengers who buy a full-fare economy ticket can request an upgrade 24 hours before departure for $30 per 500 miles at AA.com if seats are available.
A BETTER COACH SEAT ''Preferred seats'' in the first few rows of coach can be bought at booking from $4 extra, depending on the length of the flight and the time of day. American is also beginning to sell Main Cabin Extra seats with 4 to 6 inches of extra legroom for $8 to $108, starting with its Boeing 777-300s.
LOUNGE ACCESS Free with an American Express Platinum or Centurion card; day passes are available for $50; $90, plus tax, for the Arrivals lounge at Heathrow Airport in London; 30-day memberships are $99; annual memberships are $500 or 80,000 miles for non-elites.
PRIORITY BOARDING AND SECURITY Preboarding is available for $9 each way; American offers expedited security lines along with other V.I.P. services like lounge access for $125 a person through its Five Star Service program.
CREDIT CARD The Citi Platinum Select/AAdvantage ($95 annual fee) offers priority boarding, double miles, and a first-checked-bag free for you and up to four traveling companions. In addition, the CitiExecutive/AAdvantage World Elite MasterCard ($450 annual fee) offers 10,000 elite qualifying miles when you spend $40,000, free access for you and two guests to Admirals Clubs, dedicated check-in and airport screening lanes, where available.
Delta Air Lines
UPGRADES First-class upgrades can be bought at Delta.com when booking online or when checking in, if seats are available. Prices start at $50 each way for customers who purchase a nearly full-fare coach ticket for a short flight.
A BETTER COACH SEAT Exit-row seats and bulkhead, aisle and window seats toward the front of the plane can be bought 24 hours before departure from $9 to $29 for domestic flights and $39 to $59 for international.
LOUNGE ACCESS Free with an American Express Platinum or Centurion card; day passes cost $50; 30-day memberships are $90; annual memberships are $450 or 70,000 miles.
PRIORITY BOARDING AND SECURITY Preboarding is available for $9 each way for several markets, including Las Vegas; Orlando, Fla.; Phoenix; and San Diego. Delta does not offer priority security lines for non-elite customers.
CREDIT CARD The Gold Delta SkyMiles card from American Express ($95 annual fee) comes with priority boarding and double the miles when you fly, and lets you and up to nine people in your reservation check a bag free. In addition, the Delta Reserve card from American Express ($450 annual fee) offers concierge consultants, elite qualifying miles and free access for you and two guests to Delta Sky Clubs.
Southwest Airlines
UPGRADES Southwest offers only coach.
A BETTER COACH SEAT With its open-seating policy, those who board first get the best seats.
LOUNGE ACCESS It doesn't have lounges.
PRIORITY BOARDING AND SECURITY Passengers who buy a premium Business Select ticket are guaranteed to board first, followed by frequent fliers and passengers who bought a $10 one-way ''early bird check-in'' pass. Business Select ticket holders also have access to express security lines where available.
CREDIT CARD For every $10,000 charged to the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier card from Chase, you earn 1,500 tier qualifying points toward A-list status, which comes with priority check-in and boarding.
United Airlines
UPGRADES First- and business-class upgrades can be purchased from booking to check-in time, if seats are available. Prices are usually based on the difference between the fare the customer paid for coach and the lowest available first- or business-class fare at the time. For example, the cost to upgrade to first on a one-way coach ticket from New York to Chicago was $135 in a recent search.
A BETTER COACH SEAT Economy Plus rows, with 4 to 6 inches of extra legroom, cost $9 to $169 one way, depending on the flight.
LOUNGE ACCESS Day passes cost $50; annual memberships are $475.
PRIORITY BOARDING AND SECURITY United began selling a variety of perks a couple of years ago, including expedited security and preboarding (from $9), but has temporarily suspended the ''premier travel'' program. It plans to reintroduce most of the a la carte services later this year
CREDIT CARD The United MileagePlus Explorer card from Chase ($95 annual fee) offers a free checked bag, priority boarding and two passes a year to United Clubs. The United MileagePlus Club card ($395 annual fee) offers designated airport check-in lines; preboarding and express security lanes; United Club access each time you fly; and your first and second bags are free.
US Airways
UPGRADES Domestic upgrades can be bought 24 hours before departure for $50 to $500, if seats are available. International business-class upgrades are $600 to $750, depending on the length of flight and availability.
A BETTER COACH SEAT Choice seats, mostly window and aisle seats toward the front of coach, which may include exit rows, cost $5 and up, depending on the flight length, destination and time of day.
LOUNGE ACCESS Free with an American Express Platinum or Centurion card; day passes are $50 at the club or $29 at usairways.com; 90-day memberships are $120; annual memberships are $450.
PRIORITY BOARDING AND SECURITY PreferredAccess offers priority check-in, security lanes and boarding, where available, including most gates in 21 cities, for $10 a person.
CREDIT CARD The US Airways Premier World MasterCard ($89 annual fee) comes with first-class check-in privileges, priority boarding, double miles when you fly and discounts on award travel.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



349 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CORNER OFFICE: LAURA YECIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: When You Write A Report Card, Explain the Grade

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
This interview with Laura Yecies, chief executive of SugarSync, an online storage service based in San Mateo, Calif., was conducted and condensed by Adam Bryant.
Q. Tell me how your leadership style has evolved.
A. As you manage and work with more people, you tend to see patterns and get used to different work styles. With more experience, you can more quickly notice when someone is struggling and what they need help with. Do they need more structure? Do they need more help with planning projects? Is it just that they have trouble getting started? I've seen that a lot.
I taught for a while at Santa Clara University, and I actually considered being a professor when I left business school. It's one of the things I really like about managing people -- the teaching element, and giving feedback. If you think about it, in an academic setting people expect to get feedback. You're there to learn. You're there to improve. If the teacher gives you a B, without any specifics, that's not an acceptable situation. But that dynamic happens a lot in the workplace.
Q. Why is that? 
A. Because it's hard, and people often don't do things that are hard. People just avoid them unless someone holds them accountable. SugarSync is still small enough that I read every performance review. It's not about so much agreeing or disagreeing with the rating. It's about the quality of the review. Has the manager been thoughtful?
Q. What kind of feedback have you received from your staff?
A. We hire a consultant to do 360 reviews for me. One of the things I've heard is that employees wished I did more cheerleading. They didn't necessarily use that word, but I think they wanted more peppy, more rah-rah, more ''This is gonna be great.'' But my communication style is much more measured. I do presentations in a much more analytical way: this is our plan, this is what's really great about the plan, here are a couple of risks, but over all, this is a winning plan and I'm excited about it. I might say it that straight.
It's something I think about when I hire. I want people to have enthusiasm. I think about some managers I've had and how I liked the ones who were that way. That's something I work on. But in my review this year, people thought that I had done better on that. I realized that I've been talking more about the company externally, on business shows and in the press, but they were listening. For me, it's a little bit more natural. When they see me selling and pitching outside the company, they hear it.
Q.What lessons have you learned from some of your previous bosses?
A. I had one who used to read everything employees sent to him, and he would ask questions and send insights. It made people feel valued. It also had this interesting effect: Instead of people sending him more things to read, they were more selective and strategic. He would also start every staff meeting with an agenda written on the whiteboard. He was good at managing meeting time. Not everyone is.
Q. Other lessons you've learned?
A. One thing I learned in my first year at SugarSync -- when the economy was bad, people were nervous and we didn't have a lot of money -- was that I had to sell to the families, not just to the employees. The employees had more information, of course, because I was talking to them frequently and they knew that we had this product we were excited about. They could have a sense for the market, but their spouses or parents or significant others didn't have as much information.
So we started doing more to communicate with them. In fact, we had a SugarSync evening, where we invited people to bring their spouses and children. We had a baby sitter and videos and pizza, and did a demo for the spouses and significant others, whoever people wanted to bring, and I gave them our investor pitch. It turned out to be a really good event.
Q.Tell me about some of the rules of the road at your company.
A. Accountability is important. I don't like to chase people down, but I will if I have to, and I remember if they say they're going to do something. I want people to know they're responsible and they need to be that way with their team. If you say something, it's a commitment. Sometimes you have to change the commitment, but then you have to be explicit about that.
Q. What else?
A. One thing I've learned in terms of managing conflict is to challenge people about their assumptions of what's causing a conflict. Here's an example: An employee will come up to me. ''So-and-so is really giving me a hard time. They're not doing XYZ. I'm really mad.'' They go on and on about how bad the other person is. It happens a million times to all managers. It's almost like what you hear from kids.
So what I'll say to them, and it's very disarming, is: ''So they're doing this thing that you don't like. Do you think they're doing it because they think that's the better way to get the job done, or do you think that they're acting that way because they don't want us to be successful?'' The person will always say: ''Well, no. They probably don't want us not to be successful.'' So then I'll say: ''O.K. Well, then why do they think that plan is the right thing to do? And why don't you discuss that with them?''
I've done that, or some variation of it, 100 times, because most people forget that they really do think that the other person is trying to do the right thing, and it's a disagreement on tactics or strategy.
Q. Let's talk about hiring. What are your best interview questions?
A. I'll ask them about environments where they felt they were very successful. What were they like? And what about environments where they felt it wasn't a good fit? What was that like? And I'll watch to see if they have a sense for what I'm asking about. A lot of people struggle with that. They're not that self-aware, so you don't always get a direct answer. But I'll try that, and I'll ask about the most challenging situation they faced. Most people have a few transformational experiences in their career.
This interview has been edited and condensed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laura Yecies, the C.E.O. of SugarSync, an online storage service based in San Mateo, Calif., says that just as teachers give constructive feedback in a classroom, managers should offer thoughtful performance reviews to employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON /THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



350 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Jane Jacobs Vs. Marc Jacobs

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is a co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
When I was about 6, my dad and I were sitting near Wall Street when I asked him why so many men were wearing suits and ties. It was the 1970s, and we lived in Greenwich Village, a place where you could see men wearing almost anything except a suit and tie. My dad, a theater actor, told me that the people on Wall Street cared about money, and as a result, they had to dress formally. I even remember feeling bad for these poor chumps.
Since the 1970s, though, the financial industry has grown faster than nearly any other in size and as a proportion of the overall economy. In 1970, it was about 4 percent of the G.D.P. Last year, it was twice that. The impact is felt everywhere in the United States, but it may be most evident in the Village. The artists, weirdos and blue-collar families that I grew up with (save the lucky rent controllers) are long gone. They've been replaced, in large part, by guys in suits. 
During the '70s and '80s, the Village was the Jane Jacobs ideal, a neighborhood crammed with small mom-and-pop stores. That's changed too. That old house-plant store is now a Marc Jacobs boutique. The dowdy bird store with the parrots in the window became Magnolia Bakery. The onslaught of luxury brands -- Ralph Lauren, Jimmy Choo, Burberry, among them -- has been so relentless that I'm happy when I see one of the old shops still in business. As an economics geek, I also wonder how in the world they survived. How have they innovated? How were they shrewd enough to overcome the rising rents and profit off a new, wealthy clientele?
I recently stopped by the oldest Village business I could think of, McNulty's Tea & Coffee Co., which was established on Christopher Street in 1895. David Wong, whose family bought the place in 1980, didn't have any savvy business secrets. When I asked how business had changed since the '80s, Wong shrugged. ''It's about the same,'' he said. What? Back then, nobody was talking about fancy coffee. I remember avoiding walking on this block for fear of being propositioned.
Wong clarified himself: Yes, the neighborhood had changed drastically. So had its taste for upmarket coffee. McNulty's used to stock a fairly small selection; fancy beans, like French Roast Java, sold mostly during Christmas. Now their big sellers include Puerto Rican Yauco Selecto, which goes for $26 a pound. But demand has grown at just about the same rate as the rise in rent and the price of beans. And the Wongs have done little to innovate. McNulty's had the same disheveled charm that it always did, from the beautiful Chinese tins that held tea leaves to the wall of rubber stamps they use to mark everything. It doesn't sell coffee online. ''We're not way richer or poorer,'' he insisted. ''We're about the same.'' And this didn't bother him.
I mulled the coffee shop's if-it-ain't-broke business plan as I walked up Hudson Street to Imperial Vintner, a liquor store that has been in the same skinny storefront for about 70 years. Its manager, Louis Walker, who has been there for the last 27 of them, was happy to reminisce about the old neighborhood (''We're the only mom-and-pop left,'' he said) before revealing that Imperial hasn't changed much, either. It has also survived partly because its new neighbors happily pay a lot more for what it's selling. ''They like the good stuff,'' Walker said, pointing to a bottle of Chateau Petrus. It cost $2,000. ''And it sells,'' he said, smiling somewhat incredulously. I asked Walker why the store still looks so threadbare. It made sense 20 years ago, but didn't Imperial want to entice its richer customers? He waved me off. ''You make it yuppie, nobody will want to come,'' Walker said, improbably. ''They like the old-fashioned way.''
That's when I realized that my hypothesis was precisely wrong. Perhaps these small business survivors weren't the smartest or fittest. They were run by unusually risk-averse businesspeople who sold a product whose value just happened to grow in lock step with the neighborhood. Michael Stewart, who co-owns Tavern on Jane, put it more bluntly. He's surviving, he said, because he's not an especially ambitious businessman. Stewart's sales have risen over the past few years, but he takes home less money than he used to. He pays three times as much in rent as he did on his first lease, in 1995. Food costs more, too. ''If I just cared about the money,'' he said, ''I'd have closed a long time ago.'' Instead, he'll remain open ''as long as the place is covering the costs.''
A few blocks away, the eponymous owner of Arleen Bowman Boutique has followed the same strategy. Bowman has sold eclectic women's clothes since 1987. In 2002, she signed her current lease (''I got in just under the wire!''), which ends next month. Now, she presumes that her landlord is looking for a big-label tenant. ''You can't compete,'' she said. ''For them, it's not even real estate, it's advertising.'' I asked Bowman why she even bothers trying. The luxury brands don't need to sell enough merchandise to cover the rent. They can write off some of the cost as image building. Regardless, five years ago she probably could have sold her lease to one of those brands -- as other, more financially minded entrepreneurs in the area surely did -- and cashed out. Bowman countered that closing her shop would be like shutting down her life. She's currently looking at retail space nearby.
I wondered why Bowman, like her fellow proprietors, was disavowing economic theory and not trying to maximize her profits. Then I remembered one fascinating statistic about our economy. There are more than 27 million businesses in the United States. About a thousand are huge conglomerates seeking to increase profits. Another several thousand are small or medium-size companies seeking their big score. A vast majority, however, are what economists call lifestyle businesses. They are owned by people whose goal is to do what they like and to cover their nut. These surviving proprietors hadn't merely been lucky. They loved their businesses so much that they found a way to hold on to them, even if it meant making bad business decisions. It's a remarkable accomplishment in its own right.
Greenwich Village perfectly exemplifies the crucial economic idea of creative destruction. In a world of scarce resources, new ideas and businesses can thrive only by destroying the old ones. For more than a century, the Village was an amazing urban laboratory. It was dense and walkable and, more important, cheap -- meaning that there was a low barrier to entry for any new idea. Countless dreamers could open shops, clubs, restaurants and oddball stores, even if they didn't have a lot of money or financial moxie. Now the economics have changed. Any new operation needs deeper pockets and a stronger business plan, all of which will probably make it less interesting. When I visit my dad, the whole thing strikes me as sad but not tragic. There are still some passionate people with exciting ideas who are making really bad -- but entirely satisfying -- business decisions.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Greenwich Village has become a branding mecca.
2. Some mom-and-pop shops have adapted to their new clientele.
3. But many haven't maximized the opportunity.
4. And that's O.K. too.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER OUMANSKI) (MM16)
 POSITIVELY 4TH STREET: These recent listings show just how far Greenwich Village and its surroundings have come from their bohemian roots. (MM18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (86%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); COFFEE & TEA (75%); FAMILY (74%); RENT CONTROL (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (62%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (90%); RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



351 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: A Bridge's Golden Years

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
WHEN it opened on May 27, 1937, the Golden Gate Bridge was an engineering and economic marvel linking California's northern counties with the rest of the state. But within a few years it was something more: a universally recognized symbol, the romantic embodiment of the City by the Bay.
And now it is also the focus of ''International Orange,'' a show made up of site-specific projects by 16 artists commissioned for the bridge's 75th anniversary. Installed in and around Fort Point, the Civil War-era military stronghold that anchors the San Francisco side of the bridge, the show runs through Oct. 28.
The exhibition, named for the bridge's paint color, is the work of the San Francisco-based For-Site Foundation, which describes itself as promoting ''art about place.'' After mounting three projects in three years in the nearby Presidio, the group's founder, Cheryl Haines, happened upon the fort and realized she had never been inside. As she explored its Escher-like maze of vaulted hallways and rooms housing historical exhibits, Ms. Haines said, she became ''spellbound.'' She soon decided it was an ideal locale for For-Site's next project. 
Although many of the artists are internationally known, like Mark Dion, Pae White and Cornelia Parker, most have close ties to the area. And though they were all dealing with a very familiar landmark, their works turned out to be surprisingly varied.
Doug Hall's video focuses on the bridge's monumental architecture and the container ships that pass below, while David Littschwager's photographs reveal the microscopic ecosystems in the seawater. Stephanie Syjuco created a souvenir stand with orange postcards, key chains and the like, none of it for sale. And Allison Smith has festooned the fort with ceremonial bunting, which, instead of the traditional red, white and blue, is in oranges that suggest a more modern-day concern: the color-coded Homeland Security alert system.
In many ways the extremes -- past and present, fact and fiction -- may be the most alluring aspect of the project. ''It's really hard to work on a historic site,'' Ms. Haines said, ''because people are used to it being a certain way. But when you encounter all these interventions, it completely shifts your ideas about history.''
Abelardo Morell
'Vertigo,' 2012
Abelardo Morell, 63, created his first camera obscura photograph in 1991. Using a window of his Boston home as the aperture, he projected the house across the street into his living room, then captured the surreal scene on film.
Although the concept for the device -- the precursor of the modern camera -- goes back to Aristotle, Mr. Morell had never seen its effects photographed. ''That's why,'' he said, ''I felt I had invented photography.''
Since then he has become something of an expert at creating variations on the device, which essentially mimics the action of the human eye by using a pinhole in a darkened room to cast an inverted image on the wall. (He adds lenses to focus and intensify images.) And when offered the chance to make a camera obscura using the windows of Fort Point, Mr. Morell leapt at it. ''The challenge of making an interesting picture of the Golden Gate Bridge is huge,'' he said. ''There are a billion photographs of it, and it's such a gorgeous thing that it's hard to make it new.''
Unlike most of Mr. Morell's camera obscuras, which are typically made only to create a photograph, the one pictured here was conceived as an installation -- one that invites viewers to step inside the camera, which produces ever-changing images of the bridge. It is named for the artist's favorite film, the 1958 Alfred Hitchcock classic ''Vertigo,'' and was inspired by the scene in which Kim Novak throws herself into the bay from Fort Point. To create it Mr. Morell used a window in the fort that looks out onto the same spot.
''To make a camera obscura where Kim Novak jumped is very thrilling,'' Mr. Morell said. And though he could easily have turned the resulting image right side up, he added, ''In this case I wanted it upside down, to add to the sense of vertigo.''
Anandamayi Arnold
'Fiesta Queens (Golden Gate Bridge dress),' 2012
Anandamayi Arnold favors an unusual material in her art: heavyweight German crepe paper. She has used it to create an elaborate Marie Antoinette-style wig, an immense Pacific bluefin tuna and old-fashioned surprise balls shaped like iris bulbs and tiger heads.
And now it has helped her conjure up the dresses of the fiesta queens sent by counties around the state to the bridge's opening in 1937. When she saw them in a photograph, Ms. Arnold, 37, was taken by their matching gowns with ruffled hoop skirts and puffed sleeves. ''There's the drama I've been looking for,'' she recalled thinking.
Ms. Arnold has made seven dresses, one for each of the counties that helped finance the bridge, and one for the bridge itself. Working with little but crepe paper, thread, glue and cloth backing for the bodices, she has maintained the original silhouette, while using the colors and the collaged front panel of each dress to ''riff on the different regions,'' she said.
For Del Norte County, whose motto is ''Where the redwoods meet the sea,'' she fashioned ruffles in oceanic tones of blue and green, while San Francisco is represented by a phoenix, rising from a modern-day skyline.
The bridge dress, shown here, does not depict the Golden Gate itself, but a view from it, looking inland toward Alcatraz, with Mount Diablo in the far distance. At the neckline there's a tiny locket with a picture of Joseph Strauss, the entrepreneur who brought the project to fruition.
Andy Freeberg
'Phillip Chaney' from the series 'The Gatekeepers,' 2012
The Marin photographer Andy Freeberg is known for pictures of art dealers and Chelsea gallery reception desks. But this time he turned his camera on another kind of gatekeeper: the employees who maintain and patrol the bridge. ''It's something I drive over to go anywhere,'' Mr. Freeberg, 54, said. ''But you don't really see the unsung heroes who make it happen.''
He photographed a little more than half of the 200-member bridge staff, from workers who set out traffic cones to the chief of security, and narrowed the group down to the 30 on view, aiming to reflect their diversity. ''This organization is very integrated,'' he said. ''It really reflects the population of the Bay Area.'' Many of the supervisors pictured are Chicano, female or African-American -- a far cry, he noted, from the situation 75 years ago.
Throughout, Mr. Freeberg aimed to capture details that in future years may make the pictures look historical -- like the earrings worn by two young lane workers, or the signs on the tollbooths, soon to be replaced by an automated system. But his goal was just to make great pictures. The one here shows Phillip Chaney, the superintendent of ironworkers and operating engineers, standing beneath the bridge high above the water.
To get the shot, which was Mr. Chaney's idea, the two climbed down a hidden ladder. The photographer balanced on a strut set over a scaffold while his subject, tethered with a safety harness, coolly made his way out on a separate strut.
''It was exciting,'' Mr. Freeberg said. ''I realized I was in a spot that I hadn't seen a picture of before.''
Bill Fontana
'Acoustical Visions of the Golden Gate Bridge,' 2012
For most of his four-decade career the sound sculptor Bill Fontana has transformed bridges and other structures into musical instruments. He did it for the Brooklyn Bridge and the Millennium Bridge in London, and for the golden anniversary of the Golden Gate, using microphones to create a duet between the bridge and the birds on the nearby Farallon Islands that was transmitted by broadcast-quality telephone lines to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
''I became really familiar with the structure,'' Mr. Fontana said, ''and I had 25 years to think about what I would do if I went back.''
For the anniversary he has created a sound sculpture that incorporates his first live video feed. After scouring the bridge's underbelly, he positioned his camera below the expansion joint at the South Tower, capturing a view that flickers with light and shadow as cars pass overhead. ''If the Golden Gate Bridge had a brain, these would be its synapses firing,'' Mr. Fontana said.
A microphone and accelerometers, or vibration sensors, pick up the percussive clack of tires and the bell-like tones of vibrating metal. Other microphones capture foghorns, sea gulls and breaking waves, while fiber-optic cables and a microwave transmitter channel the symphony into a room at Fort Point.
Does Mr. Fontana, now 65, plan to participate in the bridge's 100th anniversary? ''If I'm still able to walk and climb down a ladder,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDY FREEBERG
 BILL FONTANA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



352 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2658 words

HEADLINE: Fast Times In Pensionland

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Columbia, S.C.
MANY mornings, the yellow Lamborghini would swing into view, sweep past tree-softened streets with a low, smooth rumble and throttle down outside an office near the State House downtown.
Behind the wheel was a financier named Robert L. Borden. Around Columbia, a city decidedly more Ford than Lamborghini, his exotic supercar gave him the air of a Wall Street hotshot. In truth, Mr. Borden was a civil servant -- a very highly paid one. Until recently, he was the investment chief of South Carolina's giant public pension system.
It turns out that Mr. Borden liked his investments the way he liked his cars. Which is to say, fast. With the help of some big names on Wall Street and a nod from officials here, he transformed this state's go-slow public pension system into one of the most high-octane in the nation. So far, though, the results have been mixed. The long-term consequences -- for retirees, public workers and taxpayers here -- are as yet unknown. 
What is sure is that while he was running things, South Carolina ended up paying hundreds of millions of dollars in fees -- $344 million last year alone -- to a Who's Who of hedge fund managers and private equity deal makers. In return, it got a trove of investments that haven't really provided the bang that people here had hoped for. Today, the pension fund has a higher share riding on private-equity and hedge-fund plays -- called ''alternative investments'' in some circles -- than almost any other state's: $13 billion, or more than half its total.
What is also certain is that Mr. Borden is long gone. Mr. Borden, who resigned last December to join a private investment firm, says he is proud of what he accomplished in his nearly six years at the helm of the $24.5 billion South Carolina Retirement Systems.
Still, like other pension funds across the country, South Carolina's faces a shortfall -- in its case, an estimated $14.4 billion. But, as in other states, the scary thing is that no one really knows how bad this could get. A firestorm over pensions and other benefits for public workers is raging nationwide. It reared up with new fury last week, with the failed recall election of Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, and votes in two big cities in California, San Diego and San Jose, to sharply cut pension payouts.
But here in South Carolina, the state treasurer, Curtis M. Loftis Jr., is worried that pension officials have had their heads turned by Wall Street players who stand to benefit from the state's money. ''This is a world where people have private jets, massive apartments overlooking Central Park, people who live exotic lives,'' said Mr. Loftis, reclining in a chair in his baby-blue office at the State House, as his black Labradoodle, Camey, snoozes nearby.
It all sounds like one of those classic tales of a lot of public money meeting a little private greed, of locals wooed by big-city slickers. And Mr. Loftis provides some juicy tidbits, including meetings with Wall Street types within the black-lace covered walls of the Provocateur nightclub in the meatpacking district of Manhattan -- and even a dinner with a centerfold model.
But the most remarkable thing about this story is that it could have unfolded -- and, indeed, has unfolded -- to greater and lesser degrees at pension funds across the nation. Hedge fund and private equity firms are selling, and taxpayers -- in the form of public funds -- are buying, and buying big.
FOR years, states and localities have scrimped on pension funds, which are now alarmingly short of the money needed to pay future claims. Nationwide, these deficits are estimated to total $1 trillion to $3 trillion.
Because of that gap, many funds have been scouring the more exotic corners of Wall Street, seeking the returns needed to keep promises to retirees. By the end of 2011, retirement systems with at least $1 billion in assets had raised their stake in real estate, private equity and hedge funds to 18.3 percent, from 10.7 percent in 2007, according to the Wilshire Trust Universe Comparison Service.
But hedge funds and private equity stakes don't come cheap, and their returns are not guaranteed. Funds like South Carolina's are now left with many high-cost investments that in many cases have fared worse than old-fashioned stocks and bonds. The South Carolina fund earned 3.1 percent, annualized and before fees, in the three years through last June, the end of its fiscal year, versus 4.6 percent for all public pension funds tracked by Wilshire TUCS. (But the fund would fare better in the next six months, besting the national average for the three years through December.)
A Republican who took office in January 2011, Mr. Loftis is the only elected official on the state fund's six-member investment commission, which oversees pension investments. And he says he has seen up close the way Wall Street tries to lure state money.
He recalls attending a dinner with hedge fund executives one evening last fall in New York, when he was asked to sit next to a centerfold model. And on another visit to New York, Mr. Loftis says, he found himself with a hedge fund group in a banquette at the Provocateur, at the stylish Hotel Gansevoort, where bottles of liquor were passed around the table. (He says he personally paid his share of the bill.)
But Mr. Loftis -- who calls himself ''Don Quixote with a Southern accent'' -- says he doesn't want to get chummy with Wall Street. He says he wants more information about the fees that hedge funds and private equity firms are charging, and about the investments themselves. Many hedge funds, for instance, require confidentiality agreements that prevent public officials from disclosing details of investments, or even their performance.
He says he was shocked to discover recently that most of South Carolina's pension assets are not held by its custodial bank but by other banks and private investment firms -- though officials in the retirement system say this arrangement is typical nationwide. Mr. Loftis says private investment firms may have accounts almost anywhere.
''Where is the money? The Caymans? Guernsey?'' he asked. He has decided to stop writing checks for most new alternative investments.
Around the State House here, some wondered whether Mr. Loftis is trying to ride the pension issue -- and the broader anger at Wall Street after the 2008 financial crisis -- to higher office. He waved aside suggestions that he might run for governor, saying he was focused on changing the way pension funds interact with Wall Street.
For instance, Mr. Loftis decided to take a closer look at the fees charged by just one of the state's dozens of outside fund managers. The examination reduced the state's fees by $18.1 million, Mr. Loftis said. He added that the fund manager called the difference a ''reporting error.''
''When I go to Cracker Barrel for lunch, you give them $8, and they give you lunch and a receipt,'' Mr. Loftis said. ''But in this world, we're prepared to pay millions of dollars in fees at somebody else's word, and we ought to do better than that.''
THE South Carolina Retirement Systems fund manages money for 530,000 public employees, retirees and their beneficiaries. It owes these people $38.8 billion.
Not long ago, this fund was about as boring as it gets. Before 1999, it was largely invested in a mix of United States Treasuries and corporate bonds. The fund moved into equities just before the technology bubble burst in 2001. By 2005, some state leaders were pushing to give the fund more leeway, arguing that South Carolina's money should work harder. State laws were changed in early 2007 to let the fund put money in a broad mix of private investments.
But to make that work, pension officials needed a money manager wise to the world of private investments. That's where Bob Borden came in.
A fighter pilot's son who grew up on military bases all over the world, Mr. Borden would acquire experience in managing investments before heading up the Louisiana State Employees' Retirement System, commonly known as Lasers, from 1995 until early 2006. There, he would move 11 percent of the fund's assets into alternative investments. In the three years through fiscal 2006, the fund's annualized return was an enviable 13.3 percent.
The South Carolina fund hired him in spring 2006, and he began working closely with its investment commission to shift a large portion of the fund's money into new kinds of investments. It didn't take long. By the summer of 2008, South Carolina had invested $8.5 billion in private equity and several well-known hedge funds. Among them was the giant Bridgewater Associates, which buys and sells financial instruments all over the world -- as varied as oil futures and Indian stocks. It also invested in D.E. Shaw & Company, a redoubt of math-loving quants.
Those investments carried an enormous price. In 2005, South Carolina paid $22 million in management fees. By last year, that figure had soared to $344 million, including performance fees.
Buoyed by a long-running bull market, state officials voted to give state employees a 2 percent cost-of-living adjustment in their pension benefits. The adjustment was tied to a decision to raised the projections of future returns to an exuberant 8 percent a year.
''I remember going wild,'' recalled former Gov. Mark Sanford. South Carolina piled into the stocks, as well as hedge funds, private equity and other alternative investments, at the top of the market. It raised its projected rate of return in July 2008 -- just before the worst of the financial crisis hit. ''South Carolina,'' Mr. Sanford said, ''is the dumb investment state.''
As the overall market plunged in the fall of that year, South Carolina's pension fund was no exception. It would drop 28.7 percent for the year as a whole. (Gov. Sanford's political career would later be derailed by a scandal over an extramarital affair.)
IN early 2009, citing the sweeping changes made to South Carolina's fund during Mr. Borden's tenure, Institutional Investor magazine named it as its ''Large Public Plan of the Year'' Mr. Borden flew out to California to accept the award.
But as his star rose in the financial world, Mr. Borden was raising eyebrows in Columbia. He was too flashy, people said -- just look at that Lamborghini. He would eventually be making nearly half a million dollars a year -- a pittance by Wall Street standards, but big money for a state employee.
''The guy you want running a state pension fund is in green eyeshades with an old-time adding machine, crunching numbers, not a guy driving around town in a yellow Lamborghini,'' said Richard Harpootlian, a Columbia lawyer who has sued the pension fund multiple times on behalf of state employees.
Sam Griswold, the president emeritus of the State Retirees Association of South Carolina, said that before Mr. Borden's arrival, he had ''never seen a Lamborghini on the streets of Columbia, and I've lived here for 40 years.''
As the pension system dived deeper into alternative investments, its bill from Wall Street kept growing.
So in the autumn of 2010, the investment commission and Mr. Borden devised a plan to create a separate, independent firm to manage South Carolina's private equity investments, as well as earn fees itself by managing such investments for other entities. The idea was that this would reduce the state's pension expenses.
Mr. Borden, the investment commission suggested, should run the new firm. But some state leaders balked, viewing the proposal as a power grab. The commission abandoned the plan.
''The economic argument made some sense,'' Mr. Griswold said. ''But the way in which it was proposed to the state just absolutely destroyed any possibility of this happening, even if it was the best invention ever, because it was done behind the scenes and sprung on everyone.''
And, for Mr. Borden, things were about to get even worse.
IN the summer of 2011, Mr. Loftis made what he thought was a simple request: he asked to see Mr. Borden's business calendar.
The two men had been cordial when Mr. Loftis became treasurer. Then, that summer, Mr. Loftis was planning to go to state lawmakers and ask for an increase in the retirement system's budget. He thought it would help to have Mr. Borden's calendar, to show how busy he was with high-powered meetings.
Weeks passed, and no calendar arrived. Mr. Loftis filed a Freedom of Information Act request. The calendar he got was largely empty. Mr. Borden's assistant, he was told, used the calendar mostly as a ''planning tool.''
''You're telling me a guy who is running a $26 billion fund that has investments on every continent on the world doesn't have a calendar?'' Mr. Loftis recalled thinking. ''It didn't pass the smell test.''
Commission officials say Mr. Borden was never required to keep a calendar. During an interview in April, Mr. Borden said his calendar represented less than 10 percent of his meetings and calls. He memorized the rest, he said.
''I could write out my next week's set of meetings, which are 12 different meetings in three different cities, but I don't have to. What can I say?'' he said, shrugging his shoulders.
In the midst of all this, Mr. Borden told the South Carolina investment commission that he was being considered to run Virginia's retirement system. The commission, including Mr. Loftis, voted to give him a 37 percent raise, bumping his pay up to $485,000.
Then Mr. Loftis noticed the date that the raise went into effect: June 30, 2011. That was one day before the end of the fiscal year -- which would mean that Mr. Borden would get an extra $65,000 as that year's bonus. Mr. Loftis urged the commission to rescind the bonus, setting off a loud debate. In a split decision, the panel voted against the bonus.
Mr. Loftis, meanwhile, using data from the pension system's own consultants, discovered that the fund's returns ranked in the bottom 40 percent of public pension funds over the last one, three and five years through last June. State retirement officials say that peer rankings are extremely volatile, and that the fund was in the top quartile for the three-year ranking ended in December.
A report released last fall by Deloitte & Touche identified several risks in the fund's operations. It also said the fund did not have a standard process for analyzing new managers and did not review some fees.
During an interview in April, Mr. Borden said attacks against him were borne of petty jealousy.
''What is frustrating is that all of the value that was generated, all of the hard work that was done with little resources, do you think we could have built this portfolio up with as few people as we had by phoning it in?'' he asked, throwing his hands up in the air. ''The amount of work that was done here was staggering.''
Mr. Loftis has been bruised by the battle as well. He survived an attempt by his political foes to throw him off the investment commission and says he spent thousands of dollars defending himself when the state looked at allegations of pay-to-play deals involving the pension fund. The state eventually ended the matter without bringing charges against anyone.
Mr. Loftis says he remains deeply worried that the state is investing with private firms whose operations are opaque. He says that he recently asked for paperwork on a timber investment, and the investment firm redacted basic information like names and addresses -- information that is easily available at a local courthouse.
But Mr. Borden says that if state pension funds want to earn the higher returns needed to pay benefits to future retirees, they have to play in the pricey and secretive world of hedge funds and private equity.
''Everybody wants their cake and to eat it too,'' Mr. Borden said. ''They want high returns at low risk and low cost.''
Asked if he thought that he had made any mistakes in South Carolina, Mr. Borden paused, and then replied, ''I have an entrepreneurial spirit, and I was in a bureaucratic job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Curtis M. Loftis Jr., South Carolina's treasurer, above, says he worries that state pension officials have had their heads turned by Wall Street players who stand to benefit from state money. ''This is a world where people have private jets, massive apartments overlooking Central Park, people who live exotic lives,'' he says. At left, Sam Griswold, of the State Retirees Association, says a plan for an independent firm to manage the state's private equity investments failed partly because it was ''sprung on everyone.'' Below is the grand interior of the State House. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DALE W. FERRELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY HALLGREN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



353 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Well-Oiled Machine

BYLINE: By ADAM HOCHSCHILD. 
Adam Hochschild is the author, most recently, of ''To End All Wars: A Story of Loyalty and Rebellion, 1914-1918.'' He is writing a book about Americans in the Spanish Civil War.

 BODY:
PRIVATE EMPIRE
ExxonMobil and American Power
By Steve Coll
685 pp. The Penguin Press. $36.
In the great reach for colonies that Europe began hundreds of years ago, at center stage were several curious entities that wielded more power than many governments. The United Company of Merchants of England Trading to the East Indies (commonly known as the East India Company) and its counterpart, the Dutch East India Company, fielded their own warships and armies, coined money and ruled territory eventually taken over by Britain and the Netherlands. Later, the seizure of land by Cecil Rhodes's British South Africa Company also preceded the spread of British pink across the map. 
Centuries from now, historians sweltering away on an overheated planet and looking back to our own times will surely see multinational oil companies as similar players. The way they're reshaping today's world, however, is not by carving out future colonies, but by searching for the oil and gas we're so hungry for in ever more risky places: beneath oceans, in Canadian tar sands, in underground rock formations that require ''fracking'' and in the environmentally fragile Arctic waters newly accessible as the polar ice cap shrinks -- thanks, of course, to our addiction to fossil fuels. That addiction is likely to change the very level of the seas the East India Company's ships sailed in their hunt for cloth and spices, and the floods and droughts ahead may set in motion desperate migrations dwarfing those of colonial times.
Steve Coll's mammoth portrait of Exxon Mobil, ''Private Empire,'' abounds in empire-size figures. In the first half of last year alone, the company's profits were $21.3 billion. When the chief executive Lee Raymond stepped down a few years ago, his retirement package was worth $398 million. If revenue were counted as gross domestic product, the corporation would rank among the top 30 countries. Unsurprisingly, Exxon Mobil runs one of Washington's biggest lobbying operations, with not only a well-staffed office on K Street (where a Democratic director was smoothly brought in to replace a Republican after the 2008 elections) but some 20 additional former senators, representatives, legislative aides and others under contract.
Yet this book isn't so much a story of Exxon Mobil's influence over the American government. Rather, it's a picture of a corporation so large and powerful -- operating in some 200 nations and territories -- that it really has its own foreign policy.
Coll quotes a 1999 cable from the United States Embassy in Chad noting that Exxon was ignoring American diplomats there. He then asks: ''And why should it be other/wise? Exxon Mobil's investments in the Chad-Cameroon oil project would amount to $4.2 billion. Annual aid to Chad from the United States was only about $3 million.''
Exxon Mobil's foreign policy, orchestrated by a political division including National Security Council and State Department alumni, sometimes coincides with that of the United States, and sometimes diverges. For example, the corporation had no enthusiasm for invading Iraq. Yes, Iraq has all that oil, but with most remaining reserves ever harder to get at, oil executives knew that whoever ran Iraq would ultimately depend on the technology and capital of the Exxon Mobils of the world. And yes, it might have been nice to own Iraqi oil wells outright, but long-term stability and security mattered more. Today, although the company has billions invested in tearing up wetlands and forests to extract oil from Alberta's tar sands, it doesn't much care whether an expanded pipeline system that would stretch from Canada to the Gulf Coast gets the go-ahead from the Obama administration. If Exxon Mobil can't send that oil to the United States, it can easily sell it to Japan or China.
Just like the British South Africa Company, which pioneered the use of Hiram Maxim's machine gun during the Matabele War, Exxon Mobil has its own armies -- and, in these days of outsourcing, also hires those of others. In Chad, its 2,500 security men patrolled the countryside in white radio-equipped S.U.V.'s, watching for guerrillas as the company set up an intelligence operation bigger and better than the /local C.I.A. station. In the war-racked Niger Delta, it gave boats to the Nigerian Navy, deployed its own vessels at sea to scout for pirates and ''recruited, paid, supplied and managed sections of the Nigerian military and police.'' On their uniforms, the /Nigerian police sported Mobil's familiar red flying horse. In Aceh, Indonesia, Mobil paid the salaries of Indonesian counterinsurgency forces who tortured and murdered prisoners on company property. Payments kept flowing even after the American government cut off aid to the Indonesian military because of such abuses.
Like other journalists before him, Coll points out that Exxon Mobil's lobbying has not been confined to keeping oil and gas taxes low and regulations lax. It has also shaped what people think on the biggest issue of our time. For some years, the company claimed that human contributions to global warming were negligible and gave millions of dollars to organizations that churned out studies accordingly. In the last few years, the corporation has subtly, gradually pulled its head out of the sand on this issue, not admitting earlier errors but simply stressing that the world's economies still demand huge amounts of oil and gas -- which is, alas, true.
Exxon Mobil executives care less about Americans' belief in climate change, Coll suggests, than they do about Americans' belief in punitive damages from lawsuits. After the next Exxon Valdez spill, or the next Jacksonville spill (in which an Exxon service station leaked 24,000 gallons of gasoline into a Maryland community's water supply), what a jury decides could subtract billions from the bottom line. Small wonder that after the Valdez, a company representative quietly called a University of Wisconsin professor to offer money if he would write an article for a ''respectable academic journal,'' arguing against punitive damages. This man spoke up, but we don't know how many other scholars received and may have acted on the same offer and said nothing.
''Private Empire'' is not as original and absorbing as Coll's excellent Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Ghost Wars,'' about the C.I.A.'s arrogant bungling in pre-2001 Afghanistan. Oil company executives trained and shielded by public relations staffers are inherently bland compared with the earlier volume's C.I.A. cowboys and Afghan sheiks. Long a correspondent and editor at The Washington Post and now a staff writer for The New Yorker, Coll is a careful reporter but sometimes doesn't know when to stop. ''Private Empire'' could easily afford to shed 150 of its nearly 700 pages. Do we really need to know where all the major Exxon Mobil figures grew up and went to college? Or do we really need half a page listing all the names and amounts involved when over a dozen executives gave to the campaign of an oil-friendly Texas congressman?
Despite these quibbles, the book assuredly does what it sets out to do: show the inner workings of one of the Western world's most significant concentrations of unelected power. And just how that power is wielded matters enormously because oil companies play such a crucial role in the carbon economy to which we are so fatefully attached.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED KASHI/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); HISTORY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); OIL SANDS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CHAD (92%); ENGLAND (88%); CANADA (79%); CAMEROON (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARCTIC (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (77%)

TITLE: Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



354 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Advantages of Preapproval

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
WITH the housing market warming up in many areas, and multiple offers becoming more commonplace, buyers who want an advantage in the bidding process will need more than a mortgage prequalification. They will need a preapproval.
The difference is significant. Prequalifying for a mortgage is based solely on what you disclose to the loan officer or broker about your earnings, credit score and total assets, including what is available for a down payment.
''It's verbal -- it doesn't really mean anything,'' beyond providing some basic guidance on the range of prices you may be able to afford, said Kevin Chittenden, a vice president and regional sales manager in Paramus, N.J., for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. 
A preapproval, by contrast, requires borrowers to provide documentation of their income and their assets.
The lender typically pulls your credit report and score, and you should gather together almost everything you will need for the actual mortgage underwriting: W-2 wage statements; 1099s, which show things like dividends and interest income; recent pay stubs; bank statements; and statements from Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k)s and other assets that could show you have the resources to buy and maintain a home.
At Wells Fargo, one of the country's largest mortgage lenders, the first quick review provided by an underwriter constitutes an agreement to lend. ''It's a real commitment, a commitment to lend,'' Mr. Chittenden said.
Other lenders may treat preapprovals as more of an opinion on the person's ability to borrow, not a guarantee to lend, said Jack Guttentag, who runs the Mortgage Professor Web site. Generally, borrowers need to have chosen a property and have it appraised before they can expect a firm commitment from a lender, he said.
Still, a preapproval is more important now, with so many more homes receiving multiple bids, and because the housing market in many parts of the New York region has been getting stronger.
''Preapproval carries more weight when you go to negotiate a deal,'' said Ray Mignone, a certified financial planner in Little Neck, Queens. ''It gives them bargaining power.''
Borrowers should ask the lender to provide a good-faith estimate on closing costs and fees along with the preapproval. Many will provide this only once you have a home under contract, but some will give you an estimate of those costs, said Sofi Cordero, a senior housing counselor with La Casa De Don Pedro, which works on affordable housing and neighborhood development in Newark.
The preapproval letter should include the amount a borrower is qualified to borrow, as well as the loan officer's contact information. Some letters may have an estimated monthly payment. But details about the loan type and interest rate will not be included; those are filled in when you are ready to receive the loan, experts say.
Timing is important. Buyers should aim for obtaining a preapproval letter from a lender within 30 to 60 days of the expected purchase date, Ms. Cordero said. That is because some letters expire in 90 days or so. (Wells Fargo's, for instance, last for 120 days.)
Your income and bank statements may also need to be updated if it has been a few months between preapproval and the signed contract for buying, Mr. Chittenden said.
Wells Fargo charges would-be borrowers $18 for the credit report for a preapproval; the other costs of the mortgage start once you have a purchase agreement, he said.
Other lenders may waive the preapproval and application fees because they want to sign you on as a customer, Ms. Cordero noted, adding that if you find another lender with better terms, you are under no obligation to use the lender that provided the preapproval.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate(Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (69%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (65%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (52%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



355 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Light, Truth and Whatever

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. ROTH. 
Michael S. Roth is the president of Wesleyan University. His most recent book is ''Memory, Trauma, and History: Essays on Living With the Past.''

 BODY:
COLLEGE
What It Was, Is, and Should Be
By Andrew Delbanco
229 pp. Princeton University Press. $24.95.
Andrew Delbanco must be a great teacher. A longtime faculty member at Columbia, he is devoted to the development of his students as individuals, and recognizes that their time in college should be formative: ''They may still be deterred from sheer self-interest toward a life of enlarged sympathy and civic responsibility.'' Like most professors devoted to teaching, he has no interest in telling undergraduates what to think, but he does want to draw them toward a sense of skepticism about the status quo and to a feeling of wonder about the natural world. College, he tells us, is a time to learn to ''make connections among seemingly disparate phenomena,'' to see things from another's point of view and to develop a sense of ethical responsibility. At a time when many are trying to reduce the college years to a training period for economic competition, Delbanco reminds readers of the ideal of democratic education. 
In ''College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be,'' he recalls this /ideal's roots in English and American Protestantism. In this country, education was never supposed to be only about imparting information. It has long included character development -- turning the soul away from selfish concerns and toward community. Delbanco cites Emerson's version of this turning: ''The whole secret of the teacher's force lies in the conviction that men are convertible. And they are. They want awakening.'' Even secular teachers are trying to ''get the soul out of bed, out of her deep habitual sleep.''
By the end of the 19th century, this commitment to character formation, to sustaining ''curiosity and humility,'' as Delbanco writes, was in sharp tension with a commitment to professionalization. Colleges were becoming universities, which meant they were getting into the business of research. Community took a back seat to expertise, and schools once exclusively devoted to undergraduate learning sought prestige through the development of graduate and professional schools.
With the substantial increase in the number of students wanting to pursue a college degree and the expansion of the number of fields of learning that schools were expected to cover, the dream of a ''common learning experience'' for undergraduates faded in favor of offering a plethora of courses from which to choose. Modern universities are meant to produce knowledge through specialization, and they often reward faculty members by giving them ''relief'' from teaching. Our best universities are adept at steering resources to their most productive researchers, but the undergraduate curriculum gets little more than lip service. ''Very few colleges tell their students what to think,'' Delbanco notes, and ''most are unwilling even to tell them what's worth thinking about.''
Curiously, the elite universities' neglect of their core college mission has coincided with a frenzied competition to enter their gates. The desire for learning and character formation seems no longer to motivate a majority of college applicants (or their parents), but the desire to gain access to the schools with the highest rankings certainly does. Selective universities confer status, and their diplomas are thought to bring higher earnings. The wealthy have a much better chance of appearing qualified for admission; high schools for the rich know how to polish those resumes and pump up those SAT scores. At many schools, the so-called meritocracy in admissions is increasingly an excuse for reproducing economic inequality. The class divide grows ever greater; those with money and those without ''know less and less about each other,'' Delbanco writes.
It's no wonder that politicians on the right are now exploiting resentment about higher education, even though their own economic policies would increase income inequality. Universities have become complicit in solidifying the class divide by instilling in their students a sense of entitlement: you got in because you deserved to, and once we certify your talent, you're entitled to whatever you can accumulate in the future.
Delbanco surveys this sad terrain, but he knows it's not the whole story. Over the last 40 years many highly selective schools have emphasized creating a diverse undergraduate student body in the belief that this results in a deeper educational experience. Liberal arts education has moved away from cultivating homogeneity and toward creating a campus community in which people can learn from their differences while finding new ways to connect. This has nothing to do with political correctness or identity politics. It has to do with preparing students to become lifelong learners who can navigate in and contribute to a heterogeneous world after graduation.
Selective colleges and universities ought to be shaping campus communities that maximize each undergraduate's ability to go beyond his or her comfort zone to learn from the most unexpected sources. To do so, and to deliver on the promise of our ideals, we must maintain robust financial aid programs and end the steep rise of tuition. If we're to become more affordable and more responsible, we must replace spending for cachet with investments in student learning.
Delbanco stresses that ''one of the insights at the core of the college idea'' is the notion that ''to serve others is to serve oneself by providing a sense of purpose, thereby countering the loneliness and aimlessness by which all people, young and old, can be afflicted.'' Like John Dewey, he knows that education is a ''mode of social life'' in which we learn the most by working with others. Like William James, he prizes those ''invasive'' learning experiences that open us up to the ''fruits for life.'' The American college is too important ''to be permitted to give up on its own ideals,'' Delbanco writes. He has underscored these ideals by tracing their history. Like a great teacher, he has inspired us to try to live up to them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (79%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (79%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); ETHICS (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



356 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: 'The Great Divergence'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Describing the arguments and conclusions of Timothy Noah's ''Great Divergence'' (May 27), an excellent summary of the research on America's growing income inequality, Benjamin M. Friedman makes almost no mention of the relationship of income inequality to economic growth. Economic research on education, apart from concluding that it raises the quality of human capital and so reduces income inequality, also promotes innovation and growth. But is there a point at which a reduction of income inequality will reduce economic growth, or, what is the range of inequality most conducive to growth? Could China have grown so rapidly if it had continued to have the same overall equality of income as it had at the start of its reforms in 1979? 
BERTRAND HORWITZ Asheville, N.C.
To the Editor:
Nobody who hopes to find solutions for the ''Great Divergence'' will make much progress without addressing the question ''How was the middle class persuaded to vote for policies that would guarantee its own destruction?''
JEREMY CANTOR Benicia, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



357 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: The 5.27.12 Issue

 BODY:
GROOMING NOOMI
Noomi Rapace was exactly what I pictured when I read the Stieg Larsson series -- from the look right down to the personality. She wore Lisbeth Salander like a second skin, making it one of the most brilliant portrayals of a character based on a novel I've ever seen. That level of acting puts most of what we see in American movies to shame.
MARK ROSENGARTEN, Newburgh, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com 
MOMMY WARS: THE PREQUEL
I have to comment on the perplexing point of view of Ina May Gaskin, the lay midwife featured in the article about home birth. Her first child was delivered in a hospital and survived. Her second child was delivered at home and did not. Yet she sees the hospital as a sinister place. She acknowledges at least one home breech delivery in which the child was neurologically damaged after becoming temporarily ''stuck,'' without acknowledging that this very likely would not have happened in a hospital. If you knew that your birthing experience was going to be completely normal from start to finish, arranging a home birth would make sense. But no woman knows that.
KATHARINE WENSTROM, M.D., Providence, R.I.
Midwifery vs. Western medical care doesn't need to be framed as a war between radically different lifestyle choices. Samantha Shapiro focuses so much on the relatively radical biography of Ina May Gaskin and the rural ''utopian community post-fervor'' setting of the Farm that the article effectively discourages open thinking. Like many patients who delivered their children under the care of a midwifery practice, I received top-notch prenatal care, and my delivery took place in the birthing center of a hospital. After my daughter was delivered in a birthing tub, her meconium was found to be bloody. My midwives immediately stepped aside and let a doctor take over. My daughter is healthy and benefited from a hospital whose staff works to ensure that women can have a more peaceful birthing experience with a lower rate of intervention, while ensuring that when medical intervention is necessary, it is close at hand.
SHELLEY LAWRENCE KIRKWOOD, South Hadley, Mass.
If your baby is not born under the most ideal of circumstances, the loss is finite. Motherhood is not defined by how your baby is born, but by everything after that.
JOAN McCLUSKY, New York, posted on nytimes.com
LAND OF CHEESE AND RANCOR
Scott Walker has said that his strategy is to ''divide and conquer.'' What he doesn't realize is that those he has divided have found one another. Teachers have found the police. Small-business owners have found state workers whose incomes were docked. They have realized that their reduced revenues are the result of Walker's selective attack on some (but not all) state-worker unions. Walker, despite his number-juggling, has contracted rather than expanded the state's economy.
LLYN, Wisconsin, posted onnytimes.com
Scott Walker is one of the few politicians who actually has the courage to address our fiscal problems. Just look at Illinois, where companies have started to leave because of disastrous taxing and spending. Bipartisanship got us into this mess. Politicians with a spine and a majority are needed to fix it.
ERIC HEDMAN, Hartland, Wis., posted onnytimes.com
The first thought for anyone who isn't aware of the full extent of Walker's influence over Wisconsin law is something like, ''He's legally allowed to do that?'' Yes, he apparently is.
ALEXANDER ABAD-SANTOS, posted on theatlanticwire.com
PREDATOR AND PREY
What purpose was served by the photograph of so many animals -- some endangered or at risk, like the polar bear -- killed by a woman whose reluctance to print her name suggests that she might have a flicker of remorse? Had she hunted with a camera, she would have a clearer conscience.
NANCY L. HARLEY, Newport, R.I.
'THEIR FIRST LENNY BRUCE COULD BE COMING'
This is a good article, but it strikes me as unfair to brand a given people as being without humor. Humor is as natural to human beings as sex, but it is culturally specific. So while Woody Allen has always struck me as hilarious, I have to understand that an Arab or a Zimbabwean may not catch his point, just as I don't always giggle with the Qataris.
WILLIAM M. SHAW, Shreveport, La., posted onnytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLAF BLECKER) GRAPHICS: 'And I thought I was a no-fuss dessert generator. . . . Tasty, tasty infographic from @NYTimes Magazine'@Lindagdesign, posted on Twitter
 ANALYTICS: The Other Birther Movements 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MIDWIVES (89%); HOSPITALS (88%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%); FILM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



358 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: The Recovery's Fate, Back in Consumers' Hands

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ONE bright spot in the lusterless recovery that started in 2009 has been the performance of the private sector.
In the rebound's early stages, business investment was the driving force. And, last year, corporate earnings hit their stride -- so much so that investors began to view corporate America, not consumers, as the linchpin keeping the economy spinning.
But that attitude may soon be changing. 
First, profit margins have probably peaked. And, looking ahead, troubles overseas are expected to make life much tougher for businesses. Thomas H. Forester, chief investment officer at Forester Capital Management, notes that from early 2009 to the fall of 2011, ''you saw the dollar deteriorate, which was a tail wind for earnings.'' Companies didn't need to expand real sales to enjoy foreign profit growth. Global currencies just needed to rise against the dollar to bolster the value of overseas revenue.
So far this year, though, the trends have reversed. The dollar has strengthened as Europe's debt crisis worsens. In fact, the dollar is up 6 percent against the euro since March and 12 percent since last fall. ''That means the tail wind has turned into a headwind, and you have to start relying on consumption again,'' Mr. Forester said.
The trouble is, much of Europe is already in recession, and China is decelerating. That leaves domestic consumers to prop up the ailing economy.
''The United States is still the biggest economy with the largest consumer sector in the world, so it comes down to the U.S. consumer,'' said Edward Yardeni, president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research. ''If consumer spending weakens, the market is going to remain weak,'' he added. ''If it starts to show signs of life this summer, then investors may forgive some of the other disappointments in the data.''
From a purely economic standpoint, the consumer may already be in charge. Martin Murenbeeld, chief economist at DundeeWealth, based in Toronto, notes that while business investment growth surged in 2010, it began to slow meaningfully last year.
At the same time, personal consumption expenditures have grown at an average rate of just under 2 percent since the first quarter of 2011 -- the same sluggish growth rate as the overall gross domestic product. Mr. Murenbeeld expects any positive growth in business investment to be offset by contractions in government spending and foreign trade, placing that much more burden on the consumer sector.
''The consumer has not been that strong and that's why the economy has been sort of flat,'' he argues.
Could household spending pick up soon? That's up for debate.
Mr. Murenbeeld says that because real wages have grown only modestly in this recovery, it's hard to see personal consumption accelerating meaningfully in the near future. Households have already begun to sacrifice their savings rate -- now below 4 percent -- to pay for their current level of spending.
To be sure, developments caused by a slowing global economy -- namely, record-low mortgage interest rates and gasoline prices that have fallen around 33 cents a gallon since April -- should give consumers some breathing room.
''There's a lot of pent-up demand in the economy,'' Mr. Yardeni said. ''That's probably the most important driver of consumer spending up ahead.'' He noted that people have held off buying big-ticket items in much of this recovery, but there are signs that that's changing.
Domestic auto sales, for instance, jumped 26 percent in May from the same month last year.
''You saw auto sales come back far faster than anyone thought, and housing is starting to show a great deal of activity,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.
''Yes, the emerging markets and China are slowing and Europe's a mess,'' he said. ''But what folks are missing is how far the United States economy has come, particularly among households.''
A similar rebound for home sales, though, will require more than record-low borrowing rates and improving affordability, said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at IHS Global Insight. It will take a meaningful improvement in jobs, something not found in the disappointing employment report for May.
''Things have definitely improved for consumers,'' he said. But it's one thing to see things improve. It's another for consumers to be in a position to raise their spending substantially faster to make a bigger contribution to growth.
''Consumers can keep the economy going forward, keep it from kicking over,'' Mr. Gault said. ''But they're probably not going to be the prime movers in a robust expansion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EURO CRISIS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); EURO (68%)

COMPANY: DUNDEEWEALTH INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



359 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: It's Time for the Fed To Lead the Fight

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
THE next meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers, on June 19 and 20, will probably be contentious. The latest employment report, showing anemic job growth for a third consecutive month and an uptick in unemployment, will surely make some Fed members want to take additional expansionary action. Others, however, appear steadfastly opposed.
The argument for additional monetary action is straightforward. By law, the Fed is supposed to aim for maximum employment and stable prices. But the unemployment rate is 8.2 percent -- a good two percentage points above what even the most pessimistic members say is its sustainable level. Moreover, the spate of disappointing data and the deepening crisis in Europe make continued weakness all too likely.
What about the arguments against further action? I don't think they are convincing enough to win the debate. 
Some Fed members contend that monetary policy has already done its share. Other policy makers, they say, need to step up. Both the Fed's chairman and its vice chairwoman have talked about the need for additional near-term fiscal stimulus as part of a gradual deficit-reduction plan. And many Fed committee members have called for a more aggressive housing policy. Indeed, the Fed raised some hackles in January when it sent an unbidden white paper to Congress, outlining possible administrative and legislative initiatives to deal with problems like foreclosures and underwater homeowners.
I agree that we need more effective fiscal and housing policies. But neither is likely to happen, at least not before the presidential election. As a result, the Fed is the only plausible source of immediate help for the American economy. It was set up as an independent body precisely so that somebody can do what's right when politicians can't or won't.
I find a related argument even more frustrating: that the Fed shouldn't act because Congress wouldn't like it and might retaliate. This argument exposes the important truth that the Fed is only as independent as Congress lets it be.
But it also raises a key question: what are Fed policy makers saving their independence for? If rescuing millions of Americans from the torment of unemployment isn't a reason to risk their independence, what is?
In 1958, when the Fed was taking an unpopular stand to fight inflation, a very wise Fed chairman, William McChesney Martin, said this: ''If the System should lose its independence in the process of fighting for sound money, that would indeed be a great feather in its cap and ultimately its success would be great.'' The current Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, should add the phrase ''and full employment'' after ''sound money,'' and paste that line on his bathroom mirror.
MANY Fed officials contend that additional action might push up inflation. But right now, the inflation measure that the Fed watches is a bit below its target of 2 percent, so that isn't an immediate issue.
Furthermore, most analyses suggest that the main determinant of inflation is the state of the economy. With continuing high unemployment at home and slowing growth abroad, inflation seems more likely to fall than to rise. And there's no evidence that a modest relaxation of the Fed's vigilance could cause inflation to jump suddenly. Inflation is likely to rise only if the economy takes off -- an outcome to pray for, not fear.
More fundamentally, the Fed's dual mandate doesn't say it should care about unemployment only so long as inflation is at or below the target. It's supposed to care about both equally. If inflation is at the target and unemployment is way above, it's sensible to risk a little inflation to bring down unemployment.
Beyond worrying that expansionary action might cause some inflationary pain, many Fed officials argue that the benefits, in terms of reduced unemployment, are likely to be small.
On this topic, there's a severe disconnect between central bankers and academic monetary economists. As Laurence Ball of Johns Hopkins University discussed in a recent paper, Mr. Bernanke epitomizes the two very different views. As an academic, he mocked the Bank of Japan for its claim in the 1990s that it was helpless in the face of persistent economic weakness. He detailed all the ways that a central bank could help an economy even when its benchmark interest rate was zero.
Yet, as Fed chairman, he has seemed to side with those who say the Fed's tools are limited right now. Professor Ball suggests that Mr. Bernanke's change of view was a result of peer pressure and groupthink among his Fed colleagues.
The academic literature shows that monetary policy can be very effective at reducing unemployment in situations like ours. In the recovery from the Great Depression, for example, aggressive expansion of the money supply played a large role in lowering the real cost of borrowing and in spurring growth.
After the Fed has pushed interest rates down to zero, its main remaining tool is communications. It can affect expectations of future growth and inflation, which can have powerful effects on consumer spending and business investment today. But to have a big impact, the monetary actions need to be bold -- and pursued with gusto. In an earlier column, I discussed one of economists' favorite examples of such a policy: setting a target for the path of nominal gross domestic product.
If the Fed doesn't want to do something as drastic as adopting a new operating procedure, it could at least make any smaller actions it takes more effective. The previous rounds of quantitative easing may have done little to improve expectations because their size and duration were limited in advance. If the Fed does another round, it should leave the overall size and end date unspecified. Or, better yet, the ultimate scale and timing could be tied to the goals the Fed wants to achieve.
Likewise, the Fed's statement about the federal funds rate has seemed almost intended to undermine any positive confidence effects. It says the Fed expects a low rate through late 2014, which is supposed to give people hope. But the low rate is then justified by invoking continued weakness in the economy, which is likely to make people want to hide under the covers.
Instead, the policy-making committee could adopt the proposal of Charles Evans, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, that the Fed pledge to keep rates near zero until unemployment is down to 7 percent or inflation has risen to 3 percent. Such conditional guidance assures people that the Fed will keep at the job until unemployment is down or the toll on inflation becomes unacceptable.
The Fed meeting will be the first for two new governors, Jerome H. Powell and Jeremy C. Stein. It would be a great time to confront some of the faulty arguments being made against aggressive Fed action. For all our sakes, I hope Mr. Powell and Mr. Stein jump right in.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY DONGYUN LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); FORECLOSURE (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



360 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Finding An Extra $2 Billion

BYLINE: By AMAN BATHEJA. 
abatheja@texastribune.org

 BODY:
The Texas Department of Transportation, which often claims that it lacks the money to maintain its network of roads properly, surprised many state leaders in March when it announced it had an extra $2 billion. 
In a state with a population growing faster than its transportation system, extra cash for transportation projects was welcome news. But for some lawmakers, the announcement also reignited an old frustration over accounting at TxDOT. State Representative Joe Pickett, Democrat of El Paso, described it as a ''perception problem.''''We're out of money, but the public is going to hear that y'all found $2 billion,'' Mr. Pickett said at a House committee hearing.
The extra financing stems from a mix of good fiscal management and factors out of the agency's control, agency officials said.
The largest portion, $750 million, is federal money, a revenue source that normally makes up a third of the state's transportation budget but has been fluid in recent years amid Congressional gridlock. James Bass, the department's chief financial officer, said the agency had planned conservatively in case Congress followed through on calls by some members to cut financing drastically.
''The ability to forecast what Congress is going to do is not really a science,'' Mr. Bass said.
Another $650 million is a result of bills for current transportation projects coming in lower than expected, Mr. Bass said. Refinancing department debt at lower interest rates freed up another $600 million in borrowing.
The $2 billion will be spent on projects around the state, most of them aimed at reducing congestion in urban areas or providing rural communities better access to the rest of the state.
The windfall reminded State Representative David Simpson, Republican of Longview, of the $1.1 billion the agency inadvertently double-counted in 2007, prompting the agency to pull some projects abruptly. Mr. Bass said the agency then reorganized departments to ensure that such an error would never occur again.
''An agency that can miss a billion dollars and then find a billion dollars has got some problems,'' Mr. Simpson said.
State lawmakers increased the department's 2012-13 budget by nearly $3 billion to $19.8 billion last year, though most of the boost came from borrowed money. To maintain the current transportation system, the state needs to invest billions of dollars more per year in transportation, according to a recent report by a state committee.
When the Legislature convenes in January, various groups hope to see lawmakers approve a reliable source of new revenue for the department.
Mr. Pickett can already predict one of the arguments that will be made against giving the agency more money.
''Maybe if they shake a few more trees, they'll find another $2 billion,'' Mr. Pickett said. ''That's what I'm going to hear.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 10-mile section of U.S. Highway 77 is to be upgraded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDDIE SEAL FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



361 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Land Of Cheese and Rancor

 BODY:
Scott Walker has said that his strategy is to ''divide and conquer.'' What he doesn't realize is that those he has divided have found one another. Teachers have found the police. Small-business owners have found state workers whose incomes were docked. They have realized that their reduced revenues are the result of Walker's selective attack on some (but not all) state-worker unions. Walker, despite his number-juggling, has contracted rather than expanded the state's economy. 
LLYN, Wisconsin, posted on nytimes.com
Scott Walker is one of the few politicians who actually has the courage to address our fiscal problems. Just look at Illinois, where companies have started to leave because of disastrous taxing and spending. Bipartisanship got us into this mess. Politicians with a spine and a majority are needed to fix it.
ERIC HEDMAN, Hartland, Wis., posted on nytimes.com
The first thought for anyone who isn't aware of the full extent of Walker's influence over Wisconsin law is something like, ''He's legally allowed to do that?'' Yes, he apparently is.
ALEXANDER ABAD-SANTOS, posted on theatlanticwire.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



362 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES SKYSCRAPERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Thieves of Light, Built by Barbarians

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
LATER this summer, 1 World Trade Center will top out at 1,776 feet. New York will again be proud to have the tallest building in the United States, a new landmark in the race for height. But is that really such a good thing? From the nativity of the skyscraper in the 1860s through its early adulthood in the 1900s, this kind of ''progress'' was more often denounced than embraced.
The 1868 Equitable Building, considered the direct antecedent of the skyscraper in New York, was only seven stories when it went up at Broadway and Cedar Street, so no one imagined that from its elevator would flow a remaking of the city. Reviews in The Real Estate Record and Guide did say ''it dwarfs all surrounding objects,'' but that was praise, since height lent the building ''majesty.'' 
By contemporary standards the Equitable Building looks like a stumpy Second Empire courthouse, and in the 1870s the new crop of elevator buildings, barely 10 stories, was not yet perceived as a trend. The Record and Guide did deride the 10-story Western Union building of 1875 as a ''costly folly'' that would flood the market with square footage and prove economically unsound. But these early tall buildings were considered isolated events.
In 1884 The New York Sun referred to the 9- and 10-story ''sky-scraping apartment houses'' of Central Park South, an early architectural application of the term, although it had been in use to describe the topmost sails of ships and a high fly in baseball.
These were buildings no taller than the Dakota, but in 1885 The New York Times urged restrictive legislation and darkly predicted that ''if the streets were lined with eight-story buildings, half of the occupants would be deprived of sunlight, and their children would be etiolated like plants grown in a cellar.'' You can tell it's serious when The Times brings the kids into it.
As tall buildings grew in numbers, architects found themselves in a difficult position. In 1894 the prominent architect George B. Post denounced the skyscraper, as it was now freely called, as an ''outrage.'' On the other hand the commission he received from his $2 million, 10-story New York World Building, on Park Row -- well, that put outrage in a certain perspective.
In 1897 The Record and Guide, alarmed by a proposal for a building 2,000 feet high, protested that New York was open ''to attack from the audacious real estate owner'' who cared nothing about robbing light from the neighbors, adding, ''All that is needed is a barbarian with sufficient money and lunacy.'' The Chamber of Commerce, equally alarmed, supported legislation to severely restrict skyscrapers.
The barbarians were by this time usually corporations, often syndicates from St. Louis, Chicago and other cities, where civic conditions in New York did not appear on the balance sheet. What some longhair architectural critic thought was of little moment to them.
But occasionally the skyscraper found a defender. In an 1895 issue of Architecture and Building, the critic Barr Ferree contended that skyscrapers were a vast improvement on the ''little old houses of the back streets, filled with squalor and filth of every description.'' In an 1897 issue of Scribner's, the reformer Lincoln Steffens called them ''distinctively of this day and this country.''
By the early 1900s, the question of banning tall buildings entirely, or even limiting them to 100 or 150 feet, was moot; too many had gone up. A few skyscrapers had even been designed admirably, especially free-standing towers like the Metropolitan Life building at Madison and 24th.
No children had grown into mushrooms, and electric lighting and fire protection were improving. Property owners found they rather liked the sound of coins jingling in their pockets, whether or not they were robbing their neighbors. Somehow most New Yorkers found the streets bearable.
In that context, criticism of skyscrapers came to seem pedantic, or at least irrelevant. There were still protests, but from a shrinking circle, usually of elite architects and critics. Skyscrapers were not really tamed until the zoning resolution of 1916, which set limits on heights and setbacks that seemed rather mild, in light of earlier calls for a ceiling of 100 or 150 feet.
But height restrictions amounted to only a back-seat force in the 1916 law. The real impetus came from influential retailers who didn't like clothing factories nipping at their heels every time they moved their stores a little farther uptown to a nicer area, flooding elite shopping areas with the working class. The Fifth Avenue merchants got behind a set of citywide restrictions, not so much to control height, but to control use -- dividing the city into residential, factory and retail areas.
Their powerful constituency put languishing 19th-century ideas back in play, and passed them in the form of the 1916 zoning resolution. These regulations were revised in 1961; despite inherent height limits, the new rules generally resulted in taller and denser construction.
No one talks seriously about banning skyscrapers anymore; indeed congestion has been in recent decades praised, not derided. And so we have before us the prospect of a tower one-third of a mile high, that will be considered a monument of civic pride, a literal triumph out of tragedy. What people would have said in the 1880s and 1890s is barely a footnote.
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOO TALL? Left, that ''costly folly,'' the Western Union Telegraph Building, 195 Broadway, in about 1875. Downtown New York, circa 1901, showing the backs of two early high-rises, the St. Paul Building, left, and the Park Row Building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK
 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (75%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



363 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Turning Saltwater From Earth and Sea Into Water Fit to Drink

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- Drilling rigs in the midst of cow pastures are hardly a novelty for Texans. But on a warm May day at a site about 30 miles south of San Antonio, a rig was not trying to reach oil or fresh water, but rather something unconventional: a salty aquifer. After a plant is built and begins operating in 2016, the site will become one of the state's largest water desalination facilities.
''This is another step in what we're trying to do to diversify our water supply,'' said Anne Hayden, a spokeswoman for the San Antonio Water System.
More projects like San Antonio's could lace the Texas countryside as planners look to convert water from massive saline aquifers beneath the state's surface, as well as seawater from the Gulf of Mexico, into potable water. The continuing drought has made desalination a buzzword in water discussions around the state, amid the scramble for new water supplies to accommodate the rapid population and industry growth anticipated in Texas. But the technology remains energy-intensive and is already causing an increase in water rates in some communities. 
''If you look around Texas and you look at the climate situation and the fact that the reservoirs are being drawn down, there just isn't much of an alternative,'' said Tom Pankratz, the Houston-based editor of the Water Desalination Report, who also does consulting for the industry.
Across the state, 44 desalination plants -- none using seawater -- have been built for public water supplies, according to the Texas Water Development Board. Ten more, including San Antonio's, have been approved for construction by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
Most projects are small, capable of providing less than three million gallons per day, often for rural areas. The state's largest is in El Paso, where the $91 million Kay Bailey Hutchison Desalination Plant, completed in 2007, can supply up to 27.5 million gallons of water a day, though it rarely operates at full capacity because of the high energy costs associated with forcing water through a membrane resembling parchment to take out the salts. (Production of desalinated water costs 2.1 times more than fresh groundwater and 70 percent more than surface water, according to El Paso Water Utilities.) Last year, the plant supplied 4 percent of El Paso's water.
Interest in desalination surged more than a decade ago, when the technology became more efficient and cost-competitive, according to Jorge Arroyo, a desalination specialist with the Texas Water Development Board. But the severe drought of the past two years has triggered extra calls to his office. Texas holds 2.7 billion acre-feet of brackish groundwater -- which translates to roughly 150 times the amount of water the state uses annually -- in addition to some brackish surface water.
The state water plan finalized this year envisions Texas deriving 3.4 percent of its water supply from desalination in 2060. (It is less than 1 percent now.)
Environmentalists argue that desalination is not a silver bullet because it is energy-intensive and requires disposal of the concentrated salts in a way that avoids contaminating fresh water. Texas should first focus on conservation and the reuse of wastewater, said Amy Hardberger, a water specialist with the Environmental Defense Fund.
''What needs to be avoided is the, 'Oh, we'll just get more' mentality,'' she said.
But getting more is what many Texans want. Odessa, which draws water from dangerously low surface reservoirs, is considering a desalination plant that could ultimately become bigger than the one in El Paso. (Odessa's deadline for proposals is next week.)
Separately, a planned power plant near Odessa is studying prices for the technology. John Ragan, the head of Texas operations for NRG Energy, envisions natural gas power plants along the coast that desalinate water overnight when they are not needed for electricity. (NRG is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
The San Antonio project is estimated to cost $145 million in its initial phase, with a daily production capacity of 10 million gallons, and $225 million assuming it is built out to a daily capacity of 25 million gallons (which is possible by 2026). The cost is significantly higher than El Paso's project, but San Antonio officials say that the figures reflect additional factors like acquiring land -- and so far, the project is under budget. Local water rates, along with $59 million in low-interest loans from the Texas Water Development Board, are financing the project.
Desalination means ''you're going to have to spend some money,'' said State Representative Lyle Larson, Republican of San Antonio. But it is worthwhile, he added, because ''our whole economic future could be up in the air.'' Texans seeking a model, Mr. Larson said, should turn to Australia, where a major drought last decade spurred billions of dollars of investments in desalination.
Australia's focus has been desalinating seawater. That is an option for the Texas coast, but desalinating seawater generally costs more than twice as much as desalinating groundwater because seawater is saltier. Energy can account for 60 to 70 percent of the day-to-day operating costs of a seawater plant, estimated Mr. Pankratz, the Water Desalination Report editor.
The largest seawater desalination plant in the country, which is slightly larger than El Paso's brackish water plant, operates in Florida. Proposals are inching forward for a seawater plant in Texas. The Laguna Madre Water District, based in Port Isabel, completed a pilot seawater desalination project two years ago and is now looking for property on the north end of South Padre Island to locate a larger facility, said Carlos Galvan, the water district's director of operations. Desalination would reduce the utility's dependence on the often-diminished Rio Grande.
The Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority is also mulling seawater desalination, perhaps in the greater Victoria area. It has asked companies to submit project proposals by mid-September, and it may try to locate the water plant with a power plant, as is done in Saudi Arabia, to boost efficiency and cut costs.
Officials with both Laguna Madre and Guadalupe-Blanco hope to acquire some financing from private companies. But government at all levels, from water agencies on up, will be the key player. In El Paso, the federal government contributed $26 million in grants -- more than a quarter of the cost -- for the desalination plant.
The Texas Water Development Board has issued $7.1 million in grants for desalination projects since 2000, according to Mr. Arroyo, the desalination specialist. But ''we don't have any more funds for desalination,'' he said. The board asked the Legislature for $9.5 million in financing for seawater desalination last session but did not get it.
Gov. Rick Perry has advocated for desalination in the past, but he has spoken little on it recently. Expanding the technology ''at a cost that is affordable to consumers will be an important part of any future water plans in the state,'' Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for the governor, said in an e-mail.
Officials at the Texas Desalination Association, a new advocacy group, acknowledge that requests for money will probably fall on deaf ears. But they say that the state can help by easing regulations -- for example, a requirement that every desalination project include a lengthy pilot study -- and by doing more extensive mapping of Texas' brackish water resources.
''If we eliminate some of the red tape and some of the permitting issues,'' said Paul Choules, the group's president, ''it reduces a lot of the upfront cost.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the Kay Bailey Hutchison Desalination Plant in El Paso can supply up to 27.5 million gallons of water a day. Top, from left, salt removed in the desalination
Edmund G. Archuleta, El Paso's water board manager
 the finished product. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN PIERRE AGUIRRE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); DROUGHT (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); UTILITY RATES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); APPROVALS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%)

COMPANY: EL PASO WATER UTILITIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON TEXANS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237110 WATER & SEWER LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (62%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (62%)

PERSON: KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); EL PASO, TX, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



364 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN THE HUB, THE BRONX; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: People, Shops and Roads Converge Here

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
NO matter which neighborhood a Bronx resident calls home, most have been to the Hub, a convergence of streets in the South Bronx that is one of the borough's most dynamic commercial centers. For Michael Reed, it was when his parents took him shopping for Easter clothes as a boy.
''Whether it was because Hearns was where your parents shopped, or because all the main banks were there,'' Mr. Reed recalled, ''at some point you ended up in the Hub.''
Though sometimes referred to as the Times Square of the Bronx -- and it once had its share of theaters and burlesque houses -- the Hub also has housing, a proportion of it city-sponsored projects. An area of only about a third of a square mile, with a population of about 15,500, it consists primarily of walk-up tenements, wood-frame houses, new town houses, and small elevator buildings, said Sid Miller, the owner of the Haven Heights Group, a real estate brokerage. 
''It's a hodgepodge of different types of housing,'' Mr. Miller said. ''That lack of uniformity makes it not pleasant to look at.''
This lack of curb appeal is partly the result of the rough times of the 1970s, when the area was a nexus of burning buildings and Fort Apache-style crime.
The rebirth of the South Bronx has been particularly slow to catch on here, said Vincent Valentino, the executive director of the Hub Third Avenue Business Improvement District, and a retired city police detective who recalls his time here as a rookie beat cop.
''The sergeant would tell you when you went on post, if you're chasing somebody make sure you don't drop your gun, because it will never hit the sidewalk,'' Mr. Valentino said.
When he retired and returned to the Hub in 1995, it was still charred and scarred. ''There was garbage all over the place,'' he recalled. ''People were dumping, crime was rampant.''
The improvement district has worked with local officials and residents in cleaning up the area, aided in the process by city-sponsored initiatives to develop thousands of subsidized housing units in the Hub and surrounding neighborhoods like Melrose.
John Valverde works in the neighborhood, and with his wife, Maria Soto, will be moving from Queens into a two-bedroom co-op at a subsidized housing development called Via Verde. Living here wouldn't have occurred to him, he said -- until Via Verde opened his eyes.
''We were initially looking to move within Queens,'' he said, adding: ''We saw Via Verde as a real commitment on the part of the developer and architect to build community in an area that has this stigma and negative reputation. That's really what it's all about for us.''
Every outspoken Bronx resident has an opinion on how far the Hub fans out from the intersection of Third Avenue and East 149th Street. Some say not at all. Others say the neighborhood roughly spans the box made by an axis along Third Avenue from 145th Street to 156th Street and an axis along East 149th Street from Morris Avenue to the St. Mary's Park area. Many residents of the Melrose neighborhood to the north consider the Hub to be Melrose's commercial center.
Mr. Reed, who works as a sales agent for Via Verde, described its Brook Avenue location as falling squarely in the Hub. An eco-friendly collection of single-family town houses alongside a 20-story high-rise with several green roofs, all oriented around a verdant courtyard, it is probably the neighborhood's most upscale development.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Many people fail to associate housing with the Hub because of its reputation as a crossroads of commerce: Third Avenue has even been called the Broadway of the Bronx. At the center of it all is Roberto Clemente Plaza, a small pedestrian area with several large planters and nearby bike lanes. Other major roads with thriving retail businesses converge upon the area, including Melrose, Willis and Westchester Avenues.
National chains like Duane Reade, Staples and Bank of America sit alongside typical outer-borough businesses like Cookie's The Kids Department Stores, Pretty Girl and Dr. Jay's. Scattered liberally among them are discount furniture stores, cellphone outlets, jewelry boutiques, electronics shops, Latin pizzerias, discount clothing boutiques, dental and medical storefronts, delis, 99-cent shops and botanicas. Foot traffic is heavy, with more than 200,000 pedestrians passing through daily, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
People are ''coming back to the area, because they have jobs, and they can afford to pay for these new co-ops and apartments,'' Mr. Valentino said. ''And we welcome them back into the fold as shoppers. My daughter -- she lives upstate -- comes down to shop.''
That's great news for businesses like Yolanda's Italian Pizzeria and Restaurant, a 52-year neighborhood institution on East 149th Street, said Neil Calisi, its owner, who immigrated from Italy at 10 with his mother, the original Yolanda.
''The image of the Yankee World Series in the Bronx, the helicopters focusing on the Bronx burning -- that wasn't a good image for the Bronx,'' Mr. Calisi said. ''But since then it's changed drastically and dramatically. The Bronx -- especially here, the Hub -- it's blossoming into a flower.''
In concrete terms, that means changes like the restoration of the former Bronx opera house on East 149th Street into a boutique hotel. As work progresses there, a giant rubble-strewn lot across the street has been chosen for a city-subsidized mixed-use complex. It is to have retail stores, a family restaurant and a charter school.
The Bronx Documentary Center, a gallery on the ground floor of a historic building on Courtlandt Avenue, is relatively new to the Hub. The owner restored the building with city assistance, adding several apartments upstairs.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Most residential property is rent-stabilized, apart from some new two-family houses, said Barry Susman, the broker and owner of the Susman Realty Company on 149th Street. Many building owners rent rooms by the week, typically for $125 to $150, he said.
A studio would rent for $750 to $850 a month; one-bedrooms range from $850 to $1,000 a month; and two-bedrooms start in the $1,200 range, said Khayan Harris, an agent with K & K Room Finders, a state-licensed apartment-sharing agency on Melrose Avenue.
There are also some condos or co-ops; they typically start at $150,000 to $160,000, for a one-bedroom, Mr. Harris said. A two-bedroom co-op at Via Verde is priced at $146,032, for a family of four earning $56,250 to $124,500 a year.
WHAT TO DO
Many Hub residents take advantage of nearby St. Mary's Park, the largest park in the South Bronx, which has a running track; handball, tennis and basketball courts; a baseball diamond; and an indoor swimming pool. It has a summer concert series that is very popular with families, Mr. Reed said.
The neighborhood is not far from the new Yankee Stadium or the Gateway Center Mall, a destination for big-box shoppers, said Martin Robert Holland III, a director of capital markets for Prudential Douglas Elliman.
THE SCHOOLS
The only public Montessori charter school in the Bronx opened this year on Willis Avenue in the Hub, joining the Bronx Charter School for Children, also on Willis, in offering alternatives to a handful of public elementary schools.
A higher-achieving elementary is Public School 018 John Peter Zenger on Morris Avenue. It got an A on its most recent city progress report, with 28.3 percent of tested students showing mastery in English, 52.5 in math.
The Hub has a handful of middle and high schools, including South Bronx Preparatory on East 145th Street, where SAT averages in 2011 were 413 in reading, 424 in math and 389 in writing, versus 436, 460 and 431 citywide.
The John Cardinal O'Connor Campus of the College of New Rochelle is in the heart of the Hub on 149th Street.
THE COMMUTE
The Hub is all about transportation. Both the 2 and 5 subways stop here, making the rest of the Bronx and Brooklyn accessible along with the Upper West and East Sides of Manhattan. The ride into Midtown takes about 30 minutes. Metro-North's Harlem line also stops at Melrose, about a 15-minute walk. Local and limited bus lines from the Hub include the B33, B15, B19, B2, and the BxM1, BxM2 and BxM18.
THE HISTORY
Starting in the 1850s, many Germans immigrated to the Bronx, living in villages around the Hub -- which didn't yet exist -- with names like Morrisania, Melrose, Bensonia, Wilton and Eltona, said Lloyd Ultan, the Bronx borough historian. Many attended what is now the Church of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Just down 151st Street, the Church of Our Lady of Pity served the Italian immigrants, most of whom came from the tiny island of Ponza off the west coast of Italy. San Silverio is their patron saint, and they began holding a festival on his feast day with a procession up Morris Avenue, Mr. Calisi said. The celebration still occurs each June 20, with Italian-Americans taking part. Today the population is mostly African-American and Hispanic; many are originally from Puerto Rico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: YIELD: At the site where 149th Street crosses Melrose, Willis and Third Avenues, it's obvious why the Hub is known as the Times Square of the Bronx. Housing is more plentiful and better in quality than it used to be. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



365 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Financing Social Security

 BODY:
More income should be taxed, a writer says. Readers react.
The Letter
To the Editor:
In a nation that prides itself on fair play and equal opportunity, it seems incongruous that people with wealth-based income -- interest, dividends, capital gains, rent -- are excused from paying Social Security (traditionally 12.4 percent) and Medicare taxes (2.9 percent) on that income. Equally odd, they do not pay Social Security tax on wages above $110,100. Shouldn't these taxes be paid on all income? Taxing the ''earned'' and not the ''unearned'' seems rather un-American, doesn't it?
The two preferences hark back to Social Security's 1930s groundbreaking origins. Without these exclusions, would there have been a political consensus to create Social Security? Maybe, maybe not, but no decision is fixed forever.
If these preferences were eliminated and the economy recovered to mirror a positive year like 2007, the Social Security Trust Fund would nearly double its annual revenue. We could expect to see an additional $500 billion for Social Security and $100 billion for Medicare. The additional Social Security inflow would almost cover the annual outflow, leaving most of the current revenue as a surplus to accommodate the baby boomers. 
Virtually all income of the bottom 50 percent is ''earned'' and fully taxed for Social Security and Medicare. Many people are unaware that wealthy taxpayers are entitled to exempt much, if not most, of their wages, as well as investment income. Ending those exemptions would allow a major reduction in Social Security and Medicare tax rates.
Alternatively, if tax rates stayed at or near current levels, Congress could use half the new revenue to strengthen Social Security, Medicare, food stamps, unemployment and other support programs. The other half could be used to abolish the corporate income tax, which has averaged about $224 billion in annual revenues over the last decade.
Such a ''grand bargain'' would make the funding of the safety net fairer and eliminate the double taxation of dividends. Abolishing the corporate income tax would also make American companies more competitive internationally.
JAMES ABERT Lancaster, Pa., June 4, 2012
The writer is a retired faculty member at the McDonough School of Business, Georgetown University.
Readers React
Mr. Abert argues for imposing Social Security taxes on all income on the grounds that this nation prides itself on fair play. But the people of this nation also pride themselves on self-reliance.
Social Security gained its great popularity precisely because it is not a welfare program. People pay into it from the money they earn during their working years. The amount of benefits they receive is calculated based on lifetime earnings. No one feels guilty about getting Social Security because ''it's my own money I'm getting back.''
Mr. Abert's proposal would change all that. While the amount of income taxed would no longer be capped at $110,100, or at all, the maximum payments presumably would be limited. Thus, many Americans would pay taxes on income not included in the calculation of the benefits they will receive on retirement. In short, wealthier Americans will be subsidizing the retirement of the less wealthy. No one would any longer be able to say, ''I'm just getting my own money back.''
Franklin D. Roosevelt believed that Social Security could never be repealed because all workers invested in it and all shared an interest in its continuation. Breaking the link between taxes and benefits would destroy that sense of self-reliance that has long sustained the program. Turning Social Security into a welfare program would be the first step on the way to its eventual demise.
CHARLES W. SNYDER Savannah, Ga., June 6, 2012
The writer is a lawyer.
I agree with some things Mr. Abert says and disagree with others. The most upsetting is using the excess revenues for things other than Social Security.
Revenues from the payroll tax do not go into the general fund. Sure, the surplus is invested in Treasury bonds, with proceeds going toward financing general government spending until the bonds mature and get paid back, but no Social Security money is used for anything other than Social Security. That is one key factor that gives Social Security such widespread support.
Increasing or abolishing the ceiling on earned income subject to Federal Insurance Contributions Act, or F.I.C.A., contributions would alone finance Social Security in perpetuity, and the rate may even be lowered after the baby boom generation passes through the system.
The biggest problem Social Security has is that most Americans do not understand it. Participants (involuntarily, I'll grant you) make contributions to the fund while they are working, then withdraw from it when they retire. If the money just sat there, there would be no accumulation for population bulges, like the baby boom, and no increase for inflation. Therefore, it is invested in Treasury bonds, where it collects interest and allows the government to borrow domestically from its own citizens instead of sending interest payments to foreigners. The money is completely accounted for, and the government is obliged to pay the promised benefits.
It is an ingenious system, and we must do everything we can to preserve it.
SCOTT KOCHMAN Brooklyn, June 6, 2012
Mr. Abert's letter points out the enormous inequity in our tax system that is heavily skewed in favor of the wealthy. I also agree with him that a tax code that treats ''unearned income'' more favorably than ''earned income'' is toxic in a society that still professes to have at least a modicum of commitment to equal rights and equal opportunity.
What I don't understand is the rationale for his proposal to abolish corporate income taxes. Don't the laws of the United States already treat corporations more favorably than ordinary mortals?
During the 1950s, corporations paid about 49 percent of their profits in taxes, yet the economy grew and the middle class expanded and prospered. By 2011, corporations paid taxes at about half that rate, as they outsourced American jobs, destroyed unions, deindustrialized the economy and hollowed out the middle class. Corporations should not be rewarded for their irresponsible behavior.
More important, Mr. Abert's proposed ''grand bargain'' needs to be viewed in the context of current political realities. The enormous concentration of wealth in a minuscule income group has spawned an incredibly influential elite who have gamed this country's dysfunctional political system and are able to shape it to serve their needs. Until this problem is addressed, no proposals that compel the wealthy to pay higher taxes, however meritorious, have a chance of ever being enacted into law.
PAUL L. NEVINS Boston, June 6, 2012
The writer is a lawyer.
There are several points I take issue with in Mr. Abert's letter.
There is a limit on Social Security payments in retirement. So if we raise the current cap on F.I.C.A. taxes from $110,100 to infinity, should we also raise the maximum Social Security retirement benefit? If not, then where is the ''fairness'' in that?
Mr. Abert's references to a ''positive year like 2007'' would be more accurately translated as ''bubble year.'' The economy in 2012 is most likely the new normal, so the additional revenue Mr. Abert cites is highly suspect.
There are many retirees who, after working 30 to 40 years, have amassed a ''golden years'' nest egg. As the Federal Reserve maintains record low interest rates, many retirees have found their income decimated. To add an F.I.C.A. tax on the earned interest, even at a reduced level, would add insult to injury.
While I agree with Mr. Abert that abolishing the corporate income tax would make American companies more competitive internationally, the current political reality will keep that a distant fantasy. Until our multitrillion-dollar national debt is pared down, corporations should not be let off the hook.
JOHN LAIDO Brooklyn, June 7, 2012
Eight decades ago it was a new notion, but Social Security has been the most popular government program for many decades. Mr. Ebert's suggestions regarding caps and unearned income are ripe for pursuing. We should go beyond ''saving Social Security'' to both strengthening the Trust Fund and increasing benefits.
We could include in the proposal to increase the Trust Fund's income some increases in benefits. This is particularly attractive nowadays as people are conscious of two new threats to their old-age security: employer-provided pensions have been eliminated or reduced, and individual savings have been crippled by the recession.
It would not be as expensive as might, at first, appear. Our Social Security income is taxable, and the proceeds circulate back to the Trust Fund. Raise our benefits and we pay a bit more taxes -- to the benefit of the Trust Fund.
It is politically possible. Recall that eliminating the cap on Medicare ''taxes'' occurred during Bill Clinton's presidency with barely a whimper. Few even know that it occurred.
RAMELLE MaCOY MARTIN MORAND Mifflintown, Pa., June 7, 2012
The writers are retired professors of industrial and labor relations at Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
Social Security was designed as a payroll tax, not a second income tax, so it is not appropriate to include unearned income in the tax base. The system is intended to partly replace earnings after retirement, not investment income.
While the income level on which taxes are levied is capped at $110,100, so too are benefits. Moreover, the benefits formula is redistributive, heavily favoring low-income earners.
In 2012, benefit recipients receive 90 percent of their first $767 of monthly earnings, 32 percent of their next $3,857 of monthly earnings, and only 15 percent of their monthly earnings in excess of $4,624 (up to the cap). It is hard to see why this is so unfair to the poor.
MICHAEL SESNOWITZ Henrico, Va., June 7, 2012
The writer is a professor of economics at Virginia Commonwealth University.
The Writer Responds
Responding to Mr. Kochman, I envision that all revenues from the expanded ''safety net tax'' would be designated for specific safety-net-related programs. Social Security and disability insurance would grow somewhat. Other safety net programs, such as food stamps, would be swept out of the regular budget to new trust funds supported by the safety net tax. This swap allows for the corporate tax relief part of the bargain.
Mr. Nevins is right. Any legislation that raises taxes paid by the rich faces stiff opposition. But there would be considerable compensation. Elimination of the corporate tax should increase corporate profits, repatriate overseas income, increase dividends and drive up stock prices.
Mr. Laido asks if the maximum Social Security payout should increase since the amount of taxed income -- earned plus unearned -- would increase. No. These payments are intended to provide a safety net. They are more insurance than investment. The Social Security payout should provide a reasonable standard of living to those who have little, not a supplementary payment to those who have much.
I agree with Mr. Snyder that most Americans favor self-reliance and feel guilty if forced to seek welfare. I only wish that those who have turned ''entitlement'' into a code word for freeloaders would agree as well.
JAMES ABERT Lancaster, Pa., June 8, 2012

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY YEHTEH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); BABY BOOMERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



366 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Trophy Hunting

BYLINE: ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
HERE'S another reason F. Scott Fitzgerald was right when he wrote about the rich being different from you and me.
For most people, real estate deals are made under pressure -- you have to sell fast because you've made an offer on another place, or you're moving to a new city and you don't have time to really indulge your perfectionist streak.
Not so for the superrich. At the highest end of the global residential real estate market, trophy properties, like expensive art, are rarely bought under duress.
Billionaires from all over the world can afford not only the price of Manhattan's top penthouses and full-floor residences, but also to wait, since they are never scrambling for a place to call home. 
''These billionaire buyers are really united by one characteristic: their choice of residence is completely discretionary,'' said Kelly Mack, the president of the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group. ''More often than not these buyers are willing to sit on the sidelines, often for years, to wait for that stratospheric trophy property that is truly unique and stands perfect in every way.''
Not that there's a lot to choose from now, anyway. The inventory of apartments that might be of interest to the world's wealthiest people has been thin of late, with demand from a growing pool of foreign billionaires eager to park their money in Manhattan outpacing new developments, especially downtown.
As of Tuesday, according to the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, 28 condos and 5 co-ops were listed for $30 million or more in Manhattan. Fifteen of the condos were in one building: One57, the tower under development at 157 West 57th Street, Miller Samuel said.
To open a window on this world, I put this question to high-end brokers and other real estate professionals: If you had a client willing to spend $30 million or more, what five apartments would you show them?
Before we get to the specifics, a few broad guidelines about trophy-property shopping emerged from this exercise. ''When you go above $25 million you better have a great view, a great building and a great location,'' said Leonard Steinberg, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman.
To that point, the lack of a great view is probably why the condop penthouse at the Mark on the Upper East Side, with a $60 million asking price, wasn't mentioned by many brokers. Sure, it has a chapel-like 26-foot-high ceiling in the living room and 2,400 square feet of roof space, and it's one of only 10 condo units in the famed hotel. But the penthouse just doesn't reach high enough to capture the sort of breathtaking views that would seem to justify the price tag.
Something else that turns out to be true about these trophy properties: They are often made, not born. Rare is the trophy penthouse or full-floor residence that isn't the result of creative combinations of several apartments to create a suitable mansion in the sky. Only in the past decade have developers designed massive units with the picky billionaire buyer in mind, said Shaun Osher, the chief executive of CORE.
Privacy matters, especially separate entrances in buildings with hotels. Foreign billionaires demand concierge services night and day, and a long slate of amenities like gyms, spas and children's playrooms. But these buyers are not overly concerned about security, said Angela Rapoport, a broker with the Corcoran Group. ''Russian buyers I work with see New York as a political and economic haven and a secure place to live,'' she said.
Brokers say they have learned to be patient, even though they are eager for a big commission check. Two years ago, Mr. Osher said, he was working with an Asian billionaire to find a trophy apartment and came up short. He approached the owner of a duplex on the 76th and 77th floors of the north tower at the Time Warner Center that wasn't on the market. The owner said he would sell for $100 million. The man bid $60 million. The owner said no.
''He is still looking,'' Mr. Osher said.
In the end, I confined my list to condos because co-ops are inaccessible to most foreign buyers, who either cannot get past the co-op boards or are unwilling to try.
One co-op, though, was mentioned by several brokers: a triplex penthouse at the Pierre owned by the hedge fund manager Martin E. Zweig that has 16 rooms, 4 terraces and a 2,800-square-foot grand salon, the former ballroom of the Pierre Roof. It hasn't (officially) been on the market since 2008, when Mr. Zweig listed it for $70 million, but that would not stop brokers from showing it to a rich client willing to run the co-op board gantlet, said Raphael De Niro, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman.
The following list is a snapshot from the last week or so. Several brokers said they were waiting for new downtown developments that will provide fresh trophy penthouses to challenge uptown's dominance. Projects like Walker Tower in Chelsea (at 212 West 18th Street), where a two-floor, 12,470-square-foot penthouse is expected to list for $94 million later this summer; and 56 Leonard (due, finally, to start selling later this year, Ms. Mack said), in particular a full-floor penthouse, may shake up the status quo, and are likely to draw at least some patient billionaires off the sidelines.
THE OTHER PENTHOUSE AT 15 CENTRAL PARK WEST Sanford I. Weil may have seized the headlines this year with the $88 million sale of his 6,744-square-foot penthouse in the complex's ''house'' to a trust benefiting Ekaterina Rybolovleva, the college-student daughter of a Russian fertilizer billionaire, but there is another fabulous penthouse available.
Daniel S. Loeb, who runs the hedge fund Third Point LLC, owns the largest penthouse in the taller ''tower,'' which brokers in my sample unanimously ranked among the Top 5 trophies. Brokers and developers around town say Mr. Loeb and his wife are quietly shopping the 10,674-square-foot space, which he bought in 2008 for $45 million, and are in search of something larger. ''I heard he wants $100 million,'' Mr. De Niro said.
Wishful thinking? The real estate community seems primed to keep shattering records, so a little hype never hurt. A spokeswoman for Mr. Loeb's hedge fund declined to comment on whether he is looking to sell.
As for who is on top, Michael Gross, who is writing a book on 15 Central Park West, has no doubt. ''Rybolovleva's penthouse, grand though it is'' he said, ''is so far beneath Daniel Loeb's -- 19 floors to be exact -- it is barely worth mentioning in the same breath, and he would have to crane his neck quite a bit downward to see it.''
THE PENTHOUSE AND WINTER GARDEN AT ONE57 The developer Gary Barnett sent shock waves through the market last month when he revealed that he had sold the two-floor penthouse atop the still-under-construction One57 for $90 million to $100 million. The buyer remains a mystery, and the closing is at least a year off, Ms. Mack said. Until then, the 10,923-square-foot residence, with its ''grand salon'' lording over Central Park facing north from the 89th and 90th floors, deserves a place among the Top 5 condos. But supposedly still on the market is the ''Winter Garden'' apartment, which occupies the 75th and 76th floors. It rates a close second. At 13,554 square feet, it's even larger than the penthouse, with a private solarium and a formal dining room that looks as if it could seat all of King Arthur's Court. Price tag: $115 million.
TIME WARNER CENTER: NORTH TOWER, 76TH AND 77TH FLOORS The Asian billionaire may have lost out, but the duplex apartment still makes the list. With a rare wraparound terrace at Time Warner -- featuring northward views of Central Park, and of the East River and the Hudson -- the residence has some ceilings that are 24 feet high, a private reflecting pool and an interior elevator. And it is on the only floor in the north tower with private terraces, Mr. Osher said. The owner is an American businessman in the finance field.
THE PENTHOUSE AT SUPERIOR INK Brokers rate the penthouse at Superior Ink, at 400 West 12th Street, as one of the two best available downtown today, though it is not for sale. The original owner, the Houston Rockets owner Leslie Alexander, sold it in 2010 for $33.5 million to Mark Shuttleworth, an entrepreneur who became the first South African in space in 2002 when he flew as a cosmonaut to the International Space Station. The 6,300-square-foot apartment has yet to be finished, Mr. Steinberg said. For those dying to capture the Hudson River views from the building, which was designed by Robert A. M. Stern and developed by Related Companies, the full 14th floor of 7,687 square feet is listed for $35.75 million.
THE PENTHOUSE AT 145 HUDSON While some brokers say 145 Hudson Street, a conversion of a 1929 Art Deco industrial building in TriBeCa, is too commercial for some discriminating billionaires, few disagree that the penthouse is stunning. The 7,500-square-foot four-bedroom four-bathroom duplex looks like a glass box in the sky. Designed by James Carpenter, it has ''museum quality, high performance, insulated glass,'' specially designed walls that allow artwork to be hung without fear of damage from sunlight, and 4,500 square feet of outdoor space on a wraparound terrace. It was the most expensive apartment ever sold south of Columbus Circle when it went for $30.5 million in 2009. After going back on the market for $45 million last May it was taken off less than a month later, according to Streeteasy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE LIST: Billionaires might consider a Time Warner Center duplex (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (RE1)
CHOICES: The penthouse, left, at 145 Hudson Street, set a downtown price record when it sold in 2009. The penthouse at the Pierre, above, has a 3,500- square-foot ballroom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



367 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
FOR SOLDIERS AT AFGHAN POST,
THE FIGHT REMAINS
The United States is withdrawing all of its combat troops from Afghanistan by 2014, and back home the attention of Americans has been shifting elsewhere. But at a remote outpost near the Pakistan border, the battle is a tough day-to-day reality for the soldiers. Page 6
ISLAND POPULATION SHRINKS 
A small community of Westerners -- descendants of 19th-century settlers -- is shrinking in Chichi Jima, a 25-hour ferry ride from Tokyo, as young people leave. Page 8
FOR CHINA, 2ND SLOW MONTH
The Chinese economy showed a second month of anemic growth in May and performed even worse than the already lowered expectations of most economists. Page 14
MYANMAR RIOTERS FIRED ON
Security forces in Myanmar fired on rioters in an outbreak of sectarian violence that killed at least seven people, the state-controlled news media reported. Page 16
AFGHAN OFFICIAL FAULTS U.S.
The Afghan president's spokesman blamed civilian casualties earlier this week on American forces' decision to drop a bomb, adding that Afghan forces were prepared to fight it out using ground forces. Page 16
National
STRICTURES ON CAVIAR TRADE
CREATE U.S. OPPORTUNITIES
Global efforts to all but ban the international trade of caviar from the Caspian Sea have opened enormous opportunities for affordable substitutes from unlikely places in America, like Louisiana, Montana and North Dakota. Page 18
HIGHER STAKES FOR CAMPAIGN
The 2012 presidential race is shaping up in many ways to be more important for the debate on the role of government and the direction of the country than 2008 was. Political Memo. Page 24
Metropolitan
IN NEW YORK CITY,
FRENCH POLITICS IS LOCAL
French citizens in the United States and in Canada will soon elect a deputy to represent them in the National Assembly of France, and in New York, the campaigning has taken on a distinctly local feel. Page 1
A FLOORWIDE NETWORK
It may have started with something as simple as a cup of coffee or a phone call across the hall to make sure everything was all right. Now a kind of network exists in a Washington Heights building: a tightknit group of older residents refuses to let one another live, or mourn, alone. Page 1
Sports
REFOCUSED EX-YANKEE
SETS HIS SIGHTS HIGHER
Refocused on his career as a Giant, the former Yankees outfielder Melky Cabrera is leading the National League in batting. The esteem his fellow Giants have for him seems to have few boundaries. Page 2
A SIGN OF SOCCER'S ARRIVAL
This is how far soccer has come in the United States: On one of those megasports days in the New York area, a match between Argentina and Brazil was definitely part of the mix. Sports of The Times, George Vecsey. Page 11
CHASING ALTERNATE HISTORIES
Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic have played 32 times and their historical agendas are of similar heft. But Nadal will be on much more familiar ground when they duel for this year's French Open men's title because he has played the spoiler in Paris before. PAGE 6
Obituaries
PETE COSEY, 68
He was a guitarist who played on many blues and R&B records in the 1960s, but became best known for his experimental work in Miles Davis's electric band of 1973-75, contributing a sound drenched in distortion and punctuated by the wah-wah pedal. Page 26
Sunday Business
HOW THE NATION'S BANKS
COULD RETURN THE FAVOR
State and local governments looking to refinance bonds to save money are stuck in Wall Street swap deals with relatively high interest rates -- and even higher exit fees. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. Page 1
NEW LIFE ON TWO FRONTS
A small group of women is proving that it's possible to start a high-growth technology company and have children at the same time. They are dispelling the image of the tech entrepreneur as a single, usually male, wunderkind. Page 1
MAN WITHOUT A VINEYARD
Cameron Hughes, who started by selling wine out of the back of his Volvo station wagon in 2002, is a wine negociant, or wine merchant. He has become a name in the wine industry even though he does not own a vineyard. Page 3
Automobiles
STRUGGLING WITH THE RACE
OF BELLS AND WHISTLES
Today's car buyers often expect their cars to have the capabilities of their smartphones and tablets. So automakers have to offer services and gadgets, commonly called telematics, that ideally keep pace with Silicon Valley. Page 1
Magazine
INHERITING A MIND PRONE TO ALZHEIMER'S
Although up to 99 percent of all Alzheimer's cases are not a result of a known genetic mutation, researchers have determined that the best place to find a treatment or cure for the disease is to study those who possess a mutation that causes it. PAGE 34
PREP-SCHOOL PREDATORS
A former student at Horace Mann, an elite private school in New York City, details a litany of stories of drinking, groping and other examples of abuse and sexual misconduct by teachers and school officials. PAGE 26
Arts & Leisure
SORKIN RETURNS TO TV WITH 'THE NEWSROOM'
Believing that a crucial institution had lost direction, Aaron Sorkin responded the only way he knew how: by creating a TV show about it. ''The Newsroom,'' his first new series in nearly six years, is Mr. Sorkin's response to what he sees as the sins of the news-gathering business. PAGE 1
THE BEAT OF DELICATE HEARTS
In plays that move at a deliberate, restrained pace, an up-and-coming group of new playwrights poses a necessary counterweight to the numbing quick-bite culture of distraction, Charles Isherwood writes. PAGE 1
Editorial
WHAT THE TROUBLE ISWITH BANKRUPTCY LAWYERS
By opposing proposed guidelines to lower their high fees, bankruptcy lawyers show they are out of touch with economic realities. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
DENYING THE MONEY
House Republicans propose gutting the agencies designed to prevent economic meltdowns. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
NATURAL GAS, BY THE BOOK
Americans need to know that hydrofracturing is safe. Stronger federal rules are plainly needed. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
With father and son presidents, pragmatism beats swagger in history's rearview mirror. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The Facebook-generation rebels are getting some hard lessons in the realities of politics. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11
ROSS DOUTHAT
Is the reproductive selection by some parents today entirely different from the eugenics of an earlier era? SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 12
FRANK BRUNI
A compelling Republican character is adding a new twist to the narrative on marriage equality in the United States. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RIOTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); POLITICS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); FERRIES (71%); ATHLETES (64%); BASEBALL (64%); SOCCER (63%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (50%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); MYANMAR (92%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



368 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: The Bridges To the Future

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank is correct to call for bipartisan support for increased infrastructure investment (''Repairing Roads Can End All Kinds of Gridlock,'' Economic View, June 3). But this goal doesn't have to require huge amounts of new debt. 
There are mechanisms in place to generate funds for the repair and replacement of the highways and other infrastructure so vital to our economic well-being. Unfortunately, the user fees that support this work aren't going to be raised anytime soon by Washington.
If revenue streams like the gasoline tax were leveraged with private capital through various forms of public-private partnerships, there would be ample money for a robust program of maintenance and renewal.
The more serious issue is this: We seem to be hobbled
by a lack of political courage to do what's necessary to make the investments that the nation needs to secure its future. Unlike money, that can't be borrowed. Richard G. Little
Los Angeles, June 3
The writer is a senior fellow in the Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California.
To the Editor:
The column made a strong case for an accelerated program of infrastructure repairs. But one comment in it about our current economic problems could use some clarification: ''Why build new factories if you can already produce more than consumers want to buy?''
It's not that consumers don't want to buy. Rather, with the weakening of unions beginning in the 1970s, the ability to produce more has not been translated into benefits for workers -- whose ability to buy has shrunk. All of this has brought a crisis of overproduction and underconsumption.
Faced with that reduced ability to consume, the private sector -- especially the finance system -- has pushed consumers into higher and higher debt, particularly in real estate, and now in student debt. An infrastructure program would help, but our economic problems will not be solved until labor receives its fair share of productivity increases.
Nico Calavita
Berkeley, Calif., June 3
The writer is a professor emeritus in the School of Public Affairs at San Diego State University.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz @nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (75%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GASOLINE (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); FUEL TAX (55%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



369 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: America's New Energy Reality

BYLINE: By DANIEL YERGIN. 
The author of ''The Quest: Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern World'' and the chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.

 BODY:
Washington
AMERICA needs a new political discourse on energy. This would recognize the emerging reality that the United States has turned around as an energy producer and is on a major upswing. And the impact will be measured not just in energy security and the balance of payments. Energy development also turns out to be an engine for job creation and economic growth -- something that would hardly have been considered the last time we were electing a president.
In 2008, the rise in oil prices was accompanied -- and partly fueled -- by a belief that an era of permanent scarcity was at hand. This mentality had deep roots extending back to the 1970s, when the United States went from being a minor importer of oil to a major importer. In the 2008 rendition, falling oil output was considered simply inevitable. The only questions were at what rate petroleum imports would rise and whether that rate would be slowed.
The outlook was much the same for natural gas. Production would inevitably decline, and the country was on the way to spending $100 billion a year to import liquefied natural gas from West Africa, the Middle East, even Australia and Russia. The energy burden on our trade deficit would only increase, adding to our economic distress. 
But that is not at all how things are turning out. Technology made the difference. The natural gas market has been transformed by the rapid expansion of shale gas production. A dozen years ago, shale gas amounted to only about 2 percent of United States production. Today, it is 37 percent and rising. Natural gas is in such ample supply that its price has tanked. This unanticipated abundance has ignited a new political argument about liquefied natural gas -- not about how much the United States will import but rather how much it should export.
The oil story is also being rewritten. Net petroleum imports have fallen from 60 percent of total consumption in 2005 to 42 percent today. Part of the reason is on the demand side. The improving gasoline efficiency of cars will eventually reduce oil demand by at least a couple of million barrels per day.
The other part is the supply side -- the turnaround in United States oil production, which has risen 25 percent since 2008. It could increase by 600,000 barrels per day this year. The biggest part of the increase is coming from what has become the ''new thing'' in energy -- tight oil. That is the term for oil produced from tight rock formations with the same technology used to produce shale gas.
Tight oil is redrawing the map of North American oil. At the beginning of this year, North Dakota overtook California as the nation's third largest oil-producing state. It didn't stop there. It just overtook Alaska, to become No. 2 after Texas. Tight oil could reach more than four million barrels per day by 2020.
What really brings home the new reality is a milestone attained last year: In 2011, the United States registered the largest increase in oil production of any country outside of OPEC.
If one takes a broader North American perspective, the changes in the supply picture are even more striking. The output of Canadian oil sands has tripled since 2000 and is now greater than Libya's output before its civil war began in February 2011.
This adds up to a very different outlook from a few years ago. Until fairly recently, energy independence was a subject to get laughs. The joke was that America was actually becoming more and more dependent upon imports. But now ''energy independence'' has become a subject of serious discussion and debate.
The prospects for actual energy independence remain elusive. It takes some very heroic assumptions to see that happening. But with oil demand in the United States declining, output rising and increasing integration with Canada, the United States is certainly on the way to becoming ''energy less dependent.''
At the same time, Brazil is developing its huge offshore reserves and could become one of the world's powerhouses in terms of oil production, far overshadowing its impressive output of ethanol.
The results of this hemispheric upsurge will have far-reaching consequences -- nothing less than a rebalancing of world oil. Much less oil will come from the Eastern Hemisphere to the Western Hemisphere, and much more Middle Eastern oil will flow to Asia. As it is, China already imports more oil from the Persian Gulf than the United States does.
The impact is becoming evident in the way America talks about energy. President Obama's address to Congress in February 2009 was all about ''clean, renewable energy'' and called for doubling ''this nation's supply of renewable energy in the next three years.'' His 2010 State of the Union address was about ''clean energy jobs.'' He had barely a word for oil and natural gas in those speeches.
IN his 2012 address, the president caught up with the new reality and spoke with quite a different emphasis. ''This country,'' he declared, ''needs an all-out, all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of energy.'' He pointed to the near-doubling of renewable energy use since 2008 and rightly emphasized their importance to the nation's future energy mix. But this year he devoted almost as much time to natural gas and oil as to renewables. His announcement that ''American oil production is the highest it has been in eight years'' turned out to be an applause line.
This new discourse is shaped not only by the surge in oil and gas production. But it also represents a growing recognition of what this means for the overall economy. Traditionally, the major arguments in favor of domestic oil and gas production have mainly been about energy security and balance of payments. But now this surge is recognized as an engine of economic growth. Increasing domestic supply means that fewer dollars are going overseas and more of them are staying at home, going into investment and job creation.
Nothing looms larger right now than the employment part. This domestic production comes with long supply chains and creates a lot of jobs along those chains. In his 2012 speech, the president cited a study that found that shale gas development had, by 2010, created 600,000 new jobs. Moreover, these jobs are spread widely across the nation. It is because of jobs that Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, is encouraging the development of the Utica shale in Ohio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, is considering opening economically depressed areas in New York State to shale gas development.
Lower energy costs are also providing a big boost to the revival of manufacturing in the United States and the competitive position of American industries in the global economy. A few years ago, both United States and European petrochemical companies, which use natural gas to make their products, would not have contemplated new investments in the United States. Natural gas was too expensive. Now, with abundant and cheap gas, they are migrating back, bringing billions of dollars of new investment with them -- and a lot of new jobs.
According to the old script, United States oil production was too marginal to affect world oil prices. But the gap today between demand and available supply on the world oil market is narrow. The additional oil Saudi Arabia is putting into the market will help replace Iranian exports as they are increasingly squeezed out of the market by sanctions that start later this month. But if America's increase of 1.6 million barrels per day since 2008 had not occurred, then the world oil market would be even tighter. We would be looking at much higher prices -- and voters would be even angrier.
America's new story for energy is still unfolding. It includes the continuing development and expansion of renewables and increased energy efficiency, both of which will be essential to our future energy mix. But what is striking is this great revival in oil and gas production in the United States, with wide impacts on jobs, economic development and the competitiveness of American industry. This new reality requires a new way of thinking and talking about America's improving energy position and how to facilitate this growth in an environmentally sound way -- recognizing the considerable benefits this will bring in an era of economic uncertainty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL AINSWORTH/THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS, VIA CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



370 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Money Ball

BYLINE: By GORDON MARINO. 
Gordon Marino is a boxing writer and a professor of philosophy at St. Olaf College in Minnesota. He is the editor of ''Ethics: The Essential Writings.''

 BODY:
THE MOST EXPENSIVE GAME IN TOWN
The Rising Cost of Youth Sports and the Toll on Today's Families
By Mark Hyman
160 pp. Beacon Press. $24.95.
The mantra in America is that everyone needs a dream. So why not dream that your kid will be the one to land an athletic scholarship or sign a pro contract? Because -- as Mark Hyman has documented in two important but troubling books -- the lengths to which many of us go in pursuit of that vision can turn it into a nightmare.
Hyman's previous book, ''Until It Hurts,'' called attention to the physical and psychological injuries that zealous sports parents can bring upon their children. Now, in ''The Most Expensive Game in Town,'' he examines the juggernaut of youth sports through the knothole of economics. How much are parents plunking down to send Jack to that hockey camp or to support Jill on the travel softball team she was so thrilled to make? The short answer is: a lot. He also asks who exactly is selling us these sports fantasies, and who is profiting from them? 
Hyman, who teaches sports management at George Washington University, researched the book partly by drafting an online survey about spending patterns. He was flooded with responses indicating that many parents will pay almost anything to beef up their child's athletic skills. As though suffering from a strange addiction, some even seemed befuddled by their willingness to write check after check in hard times.
For the Andersons, a middle-class family from Lawrence, Kan., life orbits around hockey. They drive thousands of miles a year so their teenage boy can play on a travel team. With costs for lodging, food, tournament fees, equipment and rink time, the yearly tab comes to about eight grand. ''When I think about how much we've spent over the years,'' the father tells Hyman, ''I'd say we're nuts.''
The grandmother of an 8-year-old girl on a fast-pitch travel team estimates that softball costs families at least $4,000 a year. One coach confides: ''I know parents who've lost their jobs. They have no idea when they'll be working again. Yet they still pull together that $450 to send their kid to a summer camp.''
And it's not just camp, either. There's athletic training for toddlers, private lessons, prep schools specializing in sports, expensive high-tech gear. For aspiring football stars, there are (fee-collecting) college scouting services. Yet even as he tallies all of this up with the grim efficiency of an accountant, Hyman -- a recovering sports dad himself -- adopts a refreshingly nonjudgmental attitude toward the parents who started out pacing the sidelines and ended up walking off the deep end.
Instead, with a mix of facts and anecdotes, Hyman pivots to explore the supply side of the equation. Years ago the small town of Round Rock, Tex., invested millions to build a sports utopia, which among many other things includes ''a startling layout of five softball and 20 baseball fields.'' Most years, Hyman writes, 30,000 to 40,000 children ''converge on the city with big equipment bags and bigger dreams.'' The taxes on hotel rooms alone add about $30 million a year to city coffers. On the other side of the ledger, there is the dark tale of Aberdeen, Md., which took on crippling debt to build a kids' baseball city that hasn't panned out. Some of the other cottage industries Hyman scrutinizes are corporate-sponsored tournaments, college recruiting services, sports drink companies and equipment /developers.
It is common knowledge that the play has been seeping out of kids' playing fields for years; however, Hyman's work should give anyone who feels the psychic tug of tryouts and travel teams even more pause about joining the ranks of helicopter sports parents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH SPORTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SOFTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); PARENTS (74%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); LAYOFFS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: The Most Expensive Game In Town: The Rising Cost of Youth Sports and the Toll on Today's Families (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



371 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Bankruptcy Lawyers

 BODY:
Bankruptcy lawyers moved to the top tier of corporate practice in 1978 when a federal statute allowed them to be paid top hourly fees, which courts had traditionally limited in bankruptcy proceedings. In recent years, legal fees in Chapter 11 reorganization cases have soared as deals have grown bigger and more complex. 
Even in the economic downturn, bankruptcy lawyers have been shielded from the market and client pressures that have forced lawyers in other specialties to cut their fees. Federal law gives payment of lawyers' fees priority over debt in a bankruptcy; the law firm handling the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy received $399 million through February, public records show.
Reports of very high fees in cases where employees lost jobs and creditors received pennies on the dollar have shaken public confidence, according to the Justice Department. To address this issue, a division of the department that oversees bankruptcy cases has proposed new rules for bankruptcy judges to use in approving lawyers' fees.
The sensible proposals cover how judges should determine compensation for lawyers representing the debtor, creditors and others involved in Chapter 11 reorganizations of companies with $50 million or more in assets. They would make the opaque world of bankruptcies more transparent and make law firms more accountable.
But at a contentious meeting at the Justice Department last week, law firms with big bankruptcy practices made clear that they were not about to accept the new guidelines willingly. They contend that high fees are needed to attract top talent to bankruptcy practices, which have helped keep the American economy sturdy. And they claim that the proposed changes ''threaten to undermine a linchpin of the domestic and international restructuring services that have developed in the United States.''
The proposals the lawyers find most upsetting would require them to provide data on what their firms charge in other specialties and submit budgets at the outset as a benchmark for any fee increases later in the process.
They insist that providing this kind of fee data means giving out ''confidential client information.'' Budgeting for their work, they say, is ''virtually impossible,'' though many firms do this routinely at clients' request. What the lawyers want to keep secret is actually required in the bankruptcy law, but such disclosures have not been explicitly demanded by courts.
By opposing these guidelines, the lawyers handling big bankruptcy cases show they are out of touch with economic realities. Worse, in resisting improvements in accountability, they undermine public confidence in the integrity of the bankruptcy process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); LAWYERS (97%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



372 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Lost the Vote? Deny the Money

 BODY:
If you wanted to reproduce the conditions that led to the Great Recession in 2007, the easiest way would be the plan unveiled last week by House Republicans: gut the regulators who are supposed to keep the worst business practices in check.
At a time when the economy is still reeling from the downturn, House Republicans released a spending bill that would severely cut the budget of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which would keep it from regulating potentially toxic swaps and other derivatives. It refused to give the Securities and Exchange Commission the extra money it needs to carry out the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill. 
And the bill would cripple the Internal Revenue Service, limiting its ability to detect tax avoidance, particularly by businesses and the wealthy. (The I.R.S. cut, designed to impede the agency's role in health care reform, will inevitably increase the deficit.)
The proposed cuts are the latest in a long series of efforts by Republicans to keep the government from tempering even the most economically dangerous desires of business. Having failed to prevent the enactment of Dodd-Frank and the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, they are imposing their will with what may be their most effective weapon -- choking off the air supply of regulators by limiting the money they can spend. These agencies had already been hesitant to impose a real crackdown; the cuts will make the situation worse.
The appropriations bills will have to be negotiated with the Senate, but House leaders have often shown a willingness to let agencies and even the entire government shut down if such negotiations do not go their way.
With 710 employees, the C.F.T.C. staff is barely big enough for its current responsibilities, let alone its new mission under Dodd-Frank to oversee the huge over-the-counter swaps market. Its budget is $205 million, which President Obama proposed increasing to $308 million for 2013 to deal with swaps. The House Appropriations Committee has proposed slashing next year's budget to $180 million.
The agency's chairman, Gary Gensler, said: ''The result of the House bill is to effectively put the interests of Wall Street ahead of those of the American public, by significantly underfunding the agency Congress tasked to oversee derivatives -- the same complex financial instruments that helped contribute to the most significant economic downturn since the Great Depression.''
As Mr. Gensler pointed out, the market in swaps, at $300 trillion, is eight times larger than the futures market his agency has been regulating, and yet the House wants to cut the agency's budget significantly. The House committee chairman, Harold Rogers, said the agency should return to its ''core duties,'' a statement that brazenly ignores a new set of duties Congress put on the books.
The securities industry has already gone to federal court to prevent the C.F.T.C. from imposing limits on commodities trading that can lead to excessive speculation, which can drive up the price of oil and other goods. With good friends on the Appropriations Committee, however, the industry may not even need a favorable court ruling.
For the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose role protecting investors was also enhanced by the reform law, the House provided only an extra $50 million (far less than the $245 million increase requested by the president) but limited the money to technology expenses. None of it can pay for new watchdog employees. The committee is clearly listening to Wall Street lobbyists who do not want the agency to enforce planned new regulations on money-market mutual funds.
The I.R.S. said it needed $945 million more in 2013 to make sure people have health insurance beginning in 2014, and to keep up with tax cheats. (It already cut its staff by 5,000 last year.) The House provided none of that increase. It is hard to believe that Republicans are serious about reducing the deficit if they will not let the government's revenue agency do its job.
A few weeks ago, JPMorgan Chase, a too-big-to-fail bank, lost at least $3 billion trading in derivatives. Regulators might have halted that if Dodd-Frank were fully in place. The Republican response is to hobble the regulators even further -- an invitation to another financial disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); HAROLD ROGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



373 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, June 10th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 10, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending May 26, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Paperback NonfictionThisOnWeekList164THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Broadway, $16.) A woman&#8217;s cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. 24IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Broadway, $16.) William E. Dodd, the United States ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin. 380HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson, $16.99.) A boy&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels. 451OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent. 561BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Vintage, $15.95.) Secrets of distance running from a Mexican Indian tribe. 621BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) The &#8220;30&#160;Rock&#8221; creator&#8217;s memoir. 7272THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $15.) The author recalls her bizarre childhood, during which she was constantly on the move. &#8224;819THE NEW JIM CROW, by Michelle Alexander. (New Press, $19.95.) Taking aim at the &#8220;war on drugs&#8221; and its impact on black men. 9*2THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $20.) Exploring the intellectual legacy that France left to its 19th-century visitors. 1016THE VOW, by Kim and Krickitt Carpenter with Dana Wilkerson. (B&#38;H, $14.99.) After a horrific car crash, a couple begin a journey to fall in love again. 11388THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads. 12218THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $15.95.) A story of how an architect and a serial killer were linked by the World&#8217;s Fair of 1893. 135LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) Three 1945 crash survivors were caught between headhunters and enemy Japanese. 1414THE HARE WITH AMBER EYES, by Edmund de Waal. (Picador, $16.) A collection of figurines is central to this tale of a family&#39;s survival. 15*52THE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL GUIDE, by Max Brooks. (Three Rivers, $13.95.) The comedy writer offers a plan for safeguarding yourself from the living dead. 16205BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) The importance of hunch and instinct in the workings of the mind. 1772LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $8.99 and $15.99.) The harrowing story of a Navy SEALs operation in Afghanistan. 183TURN RIGHT AT MACHU PICCHU, by Mark Adams. (Plume, $16.) Retracing a journey to the Incas&#8217; city. 19*99FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) How to apply economic theory to almost everything. 2028ZEITOUN, by Dave Eggers. (Vintage, $15.95.) The travails of a Syrian-American man and his family after Hurricane Katrina.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
21. THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES, by Siddhartha Mukherjee. (Scribner)
22. SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s Griffin)
23. THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Riverhead)
24. THE HUNGER PAINS, by The Harvard Lampoon. (Touchstone)
25. EMPIRE OF THE SUMMER MOON, by S.C. Gwynne. (Scribner)
26. THE OTHER WES MOORE, by Wes Moore. (Spiegel &#38; Grau)
27. MOONWALKING WITH EINSTEIN, by Joshua Foer. (Penguin)
28. UNLIKELY FRIENDSHIPS, by Jennifer S. Holland. (Workman)
29. NOTHING DAUNTED, by Dorothy Wickenden. (Scribner)
30. DRIVE, by Daniel H. Pink. (Riverhead)
31. JUST KIDS, by Patti Smith. (Ecco)
32. LADY ALMINA AND THE REAL DOWNTON ABBEY, by the Countess of Carnarvon. (Broadway Books)
33. THEN AGAIN, by Diane Keaton. (Random House)
34. AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Back Bay)
35. INCOGNITO, by David Eagleman. (Vintage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); CANCER (67%); RUNNING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) GERMANY (75%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



374 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Spain to Accept European Rescue For Ailing Banks

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER, NICHOLAS KULISH and PAUL GEITNER; Raphael Minder reported from Madrid, Nicholas Kulish from Berlin, and Paul Geitner from Brussels. Annie Lowrey contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
MADRID -- Responding to increasingly urgent calls from across Europe and the United States, Spain on Saturday agreed to accept a bailout for its cash-starved banks as European finance ministers offered an aid package of up to $125 billion.
European leaders hope the promise of such a large package, made in an emergency conference call with Spain, will quell rising financial turmoil ahead of elections in Greece that they fear could further shake world markets.
The decision made Spain the fourth and largest European country to agree to accept emergency assistance as part of the continuing debt crisis. The aid offered by countries that use the euro was nearly three times the $46 billion in extra capital the International Monetary Fund said was the minimum that the wobbly Spanish banking sector needed to guard against a deepening of the country's economic crisis.
On Sunday, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy tried to deflect criticism for his government's decision to seek assistance for Spain's ailing bank. The winners, he said, were ''the credibility of the European project, the future of the euro, the solidity of our financial system and the possibility that credit will flow again.'' 
But he warned that Spain's economic problems would worsen this year despite the request. ''This year is going to be a bad one,'' Mr. Rajoy told reporters, according to The Associated Press. More people, he said, could lose their jobs -- one out of every four Spaniards is already unemployed.
Mr Rajoy also insisted that the rescue deal should not be seen as the fourth bailout in the euro crisis but as a loan to recapitalize Spain's weakest banks, ''which isn't that easy to obtain.''
The announcement of a deal came amid growing fears that instability in Spain could drag down an already sputtering world economy. The decision was the culmination of weeks of a contentious back-and-forth between Spain and its would-be creditors in which it was hard to tell how much of Spain's resistance to financial help was tactical maneuvering for a better deal and how much a refusal to admit the depth of the banking sector's troubles.
The escalating tension prompted President Obama to push Friday, in unusually explicit terms, for quick European action.
European officials have said they wanted their offer to go well beyond Spain's immediate needs to shield the country from any destabilizing effect from next weekend's Greek parliamentary election. Spain has fought to avoid the stigma of a bailout and on Saturday portrayed the Europeans' offer as coming with few strings attached. Although the European statement on the aid package gave few details, it did not mention new austerity measures and said the conditions of the agreement were focused instead on banking reforms, as Spain had requested.
Spanish officials on Saturday denied that their country was in the same position as Greece, Portugal and Ireland, which have all received bailouts that demanded they slash spending. And on Sunday, Mr Rajoy rejected suggestions that Spain had been pushed to request help ahead of new Greek elections on June 17 that could precipitate Greece's withdrawal from European monetary union.
''Nobody pressured me, I was the one who pressured to get credit,'' Mr Rajoy said.
Luis de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister, said at a news conference Saturday in Madrid that the assistance ''allows us to have an ample safety margin'' and ''will return trust and confidence to the euro project.''
The deal to shore up Spain's banks is only the latest in a marathon crisis that has seen one stopgap solution after another over the last three years. The 11th-hour fixes have always given way to new speculation about the long-term solidity of the currency union, and European leaders remain deeply divided about the way to carry out a more lasting solution. Ahead of a summit meeting this month, members of the euro zone are debating a variety of fixes related to forming a tighter political and fiscal union.
The amount of the financing package is expected to be completed after two consulting firms publish their audit reports on Spanish banks on June 21.
The maximum figure of $125 billion was intended to cover the ''estimated capital requirements with an additional safety margin,'' according to the statement issued by euro zone finance ministers. The statement also said that the euro group ''supports the efforts of the Spanish authorities to resolutely address the restructuring of its financial sector.''
Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., said the scale of the proposed financing ''gives assurance that the financing needs of Spain's banking system will be fully met.'' And the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, called the support European partners were showing Spain ''important for the health of Spain's economy.'' He said that Spain's request for aid and Europe's agreement were ''concrete steps on the path to financial union, which is vital to the resilience of the euro area.''
''It's a calming signal at a time when calming signals are badly needed,'' said Jens Boysen-Hogrefe, an economist at the Kiel Institute for the World Economy. But Mr. Boysen-Hogrefe said it did not solve the underlying problems of Spain or the euro area as a whole. ''The uncertainty is still high and bad news can pop up anywhere in the euro area. This is not a final solution.''
Many financial analysts expect the Greek elections next week to spook the already unsettled markets and test the very cohesion of the euro zone.
Before Saturday, Mr. Rajoy had tried to hold out against the withering pressure of capital markets, which drove up Spain's borrowing costs, and the lobbying of European leaders, led by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, to come up with a plan to recapitalize the banks hit worst by the bursting of Spain's property bubble. Mr. Rajoy wanted the rules changed, or at least bent, so the money went directly to the banks and Spain could claim more convincingly it had not received a bailout.
The money, however, will be channeled through the Spanish bank-bailout fund, and the Spanish government will ultimately be responsible and will have to sign the memorandum of understanding and the conditions that come with it.
Still, Mr. de Guindos said that, based on his discussions with euro zone ministers, he expected the terms of the emergency loan to be ''very favorable.'' He noted that not all of Spain's banks would need help, adding that ''the problem that we face affects about 30 percent of the Spanish banking system.''
European leaders have underscored previously, and reiterated in their statement on Saturday, that Spain had made significant budget cuts and labor market reforms. Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, praised the steps undertaken thus far, calling the teleconference ''constructive'' and saying in a statement that ''Spain is on the right path and Germany, just like the other countries and institutions of the euro zone, as well as probably the I.M.F., will support Spain on that way.''
Robert Tornabell, a banking professor at the Esade business school in Barcelona, said that despite the government's insistence to the contrary, ''What has just been agreed is in fact a bailout, just like what had to be done for Ireland because of its banking problems.''
He said Spain's rescue request would ''clearly hurt'' the credibility of the government of Mr. Rajoy, as well as that of the Bank of Spain, following their repeated claims that Spain would not require European emergency funding in order to keep its banking sector afloat. Still, Mr. Tornabell said, ''This is good news for our banking system, as is the fact that the euro group is not imposing such strict conditions and seems willing to offer Spain an interest rate well below that of the market.''
The real test will begin when financial markets reopen Monday and, in particular, when Spain tries to borrow money again from private lenders. The country's borrowing costs have been pushed to close to record highs in part because of the problems at its banks, which are struggling under the weight not only of significant losses in their real estate loan portfolios, but also the country's broader economic malaise.
By resisting harsh bailout conditions, Mr. Rajoy was hoping to escape Greece's fate. Tough conditions there have caused political upheaval, with the left-wing party led by Alexis Tsipras vowing that if it comes to power, it will refuse to live up to the nation's bailout terms.
European officials hope an infusion of cash for Spain's banks will strip some uncertainty from the markets, which will be agitated enough if Mr. Tsipras's party wins.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Before Saturday, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain tried to hold out against the withering pressure of capital markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA VERA/REUTERS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); LAYOFFS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (95%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



375 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1783 words

HEADLINE: The Upgrade Maze

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
A STEADY rain was soaking the windows of La Guardia Airport when Nancy Thode, an elite frequent flier with Delta Air Lines, approached a gate agent with a pressing question: Had her request for an upgrade cleared?
Glancing at her computer, brow furrowed, the agent was not encouraging: ''You are No. 13.''
But with a nearby video monitor showing that more than half of the 26 first-class seats were already claimed, Ms. Thode knew her chances were slim. ''If somebody comes -- diamond, platinum or gold,'' the gate agent pointed out, ''they're going to get it.''
Minutes later, Rick Triana, a business traveler, strode up, the word ''diamond'' emblazoned in capital letters on the tag attached to his Victorinox wheelie-bag. Despite seeing his name at the top of the upgrade list, he confirmed his spot with an agent anyway, lingering around afterward to make sure he wouldn't be bumped. ''You never know,'' he said. 
As the boarding time neared for the Atlanta-bound flight, the upgrade list began to shrink. Mr. Triana was upgraded to first class. So was a gold-level flier (though his wife was not). Ms. Thode, a social worker from Stamford, Conn., dispatched a friend she was traveling with to check on her status. Bad news. ''I get knocked off for the diamonds,'' she sighed. ''Silver just doesn't make it.''
Elite status in an airline loyalty program used to be something of an exclusive club, rewarding those who flew the most -- typically between 25,000 and 125,000 miles a year, depending on the carrier -- with perks and sought-after upgrades into business or first class. These days, though, the advantages of being an elite flier are harder to gauge. The private lounges are more crowded, the priority check-in lines longer. And on some flights there are so many elites that it's become almost a joke: ''Never go to check-in at the elite line; it's way too long,'' said Randy Petersen, the founder of frequent flier Web sites like FlyerTalk.com and MilePoint.com.
What's happened? A few things. As the airline industry has merged and shrunk over the years in order to survive, fewer seats on many routes mean scarcer upgrades for top-tier fliers. Meanwhile, the number of travelers with some sort of elite status has grown. Elite fliers are so concentrated on some flights, like San Francisco to New York or Chicago, Mr. Petersen said, that ''when they call early boarding, for 196 people on a plane, only 18 people will stay seated.''
But it's not only that there are more elites these days; it's also that non-elites can now buy those once-reserved perks a la carte.
Don't want to wait in line at security? Pay for the express line. How about airline lounge access? That'll be $50 for a day pass, or the right credit card will get you in for free. Even upgrades are for sale, if seats are available.
While all this may be good news for travelers who fly just once or twice a year, elite frequent fliers say that the moves have been eating away at the cachet and precious privileges that come with elite status.
''It's certainly degraded the experience,'' said Tom Majewski, an investment banker from Darien, Conn., who flies about 100,000 miles a year and is an elite flier with both Delta and American Airlines. For a flight to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in November, he showed up with his family at the Delta Sky Club at La Guardia, which like other Delta lounges is accessible to frequent fliers at a discounted membership rate tied to their status, as well as to anyone with a platinum or Delta Reserve credit card from American Express.
''There was not a seat to be had,'' he said. ''It was jam-packed.'' So the family loaded up on free snack mix and sat out by the gate, where there were still open seats. His big beef, however, is not how crowded the lounges are, but the difficulty in getting upgrades, especially on international flights and popular business routes like New York to Los Angeles. ''Slowly but surely they're scaling back the best frequent-traveler benefits,'' he said.
Airlines maintain that even though they've begun to offer frequent-flier perks for sale, elites are their priority. While credit-card holders and those who pay for priority boarding can be seated ahead of the masses, that group is called to board after top-tier fliers. As for purchased upgrades, they're generally offered only after they've been made available free to elite members.
''We carefully balance benefits for our credit-card programs so that we match them with popular items like first bag free and priority-boarding availability while not taking value away from our Medallion customers,'' said Paul Skrbec, a Delta spokesman.
YET it is the airlines that, in ever more profitable deals with credit-card companies, have been diluting elite privileges in the first place.
It was 1981 when American Airlines kicked off the loyalty program craze by introducing the first miles-based frequent-flier program. Other airlines followed. Back then, the programs were designed to reward a small cadre of road warriors. Today they provide airlines with piles of cash from selling miles as part of a multibillion-dollar business that features big banks, retailers and global airline partnerships.
North American airlines generated an estimated $15 billion in ancillary revenue last year, according to Amadeus, the global reservations processor, and the IdeaWorks Company, a consulting firm. ''Half of that is from frequent-flier programs,'' said Jay Sorensen, the president of IdeaWorks.
But up until a few years ago, while consumers could earn miles by, say, using a certain credit card, those miles could not be used to earn elite status. Only qualifying miles -- those traditionally earned by flying -- could make someone elite.
What is different now is that qualifying miles, too, are on the table in this giant global exchange, thus enabling people to buy into elite status without ever boarding a plane. On some airlines, like US Airways, consumers can buy status outright. And qualifying miles, like regular miles, are now being used as credit-card lures as well. The $450-a-year Delta Reserve card from American Express, for example, offers 10,000 qualifying miles with your first purchase. For spending $30,000 in a calendar year, you get 15,000 more qualifying miles, and when you hit $60,000 in annual spending, you get another 15,000. Those bonuses alone are enough to earn you Silver status.
While airlines are generally reluctant to discuss the number of people who have qualified for elite status, Mr. Petersen, who has been tracking loyalty programs since 1986, estimated that about 10 years ago, it used to be 2 or 3 percent of active program members. ''Today,'' he said, ''it's more like 6 percent.''
All of this affects the value of actually being elite. ''The silver guys, the lowest elite level, has become somewhat the throwaway level in the upgrade pool,'' Mr. Petersen said. ''Far less than 50 percent of the lowest tiers are able to get the benefits out of the upgrade part of elite status.''
Most frequent fliers, including Mr. Petersen, agree that, despite the erosion of many benefits over the years, elite status still comes with a few perks worth striving for -- including faster security lines; free checked bags, allowing elite passengers to avoid the overhead-bin scrum; rebooking priority when a flight is oversold; and often better access to award seats. And there is no doubt that traveling as an elite is better than the alternative. Though lounges may be more crowded, there are still free snacks and private bathrooms. And lower-ranking elites still have a decent chance of scoring an upgrade on flights that are not so popular with business travelers.
Recognizing that expanding elite programs needed something new to strive for, some airlines have established new top categories, widening the gap between elites at the head of the line and those behind them. Delta added a fourth tier -- diamond -- in 2009 to reward travelers who had long since passed the 75,000-mile benchmark for top-level elite status. Diamond became the new top status bestowed on customers who earn a minimum of 125,000 miles a year. When United merged with Continental, it also moved from three elite tiers to four.
At the same time, some benefits at the lower levels have been scrubbed. In March, Delta reduced the number of free checked bags for the lowest tier of its elite fliers from two to one. And United has discontinued its perk of letting PremierSilver frequent fliers -- the lowest level, at 25,000 miles a year -- reserve Economy Plus seats with extra legroom when buying a ticket. Now, those elites must wait to reserve an Economy Plus seat at check-in -- that is, if a higher-ranking frequent flier or customer who paid extra for Economy Plus hasn't nabbed the last one. (United said the change was made to ensure that higher-level elites, who tend to book closer to departure, have first dibs on Economy Plus seats.)
But the erosion of elite benefits over the years also extends to certain intangibles like longer hold times and indifferent customer service attitudes toward top-tier fliers. ''Ten years ago a top-tier loyalty program member would have received consistently excellent service from airline representatives,'' including certain unwritten favors, like the elimination of change fees, or opening up award inventory on a given flight, said Ryan Lile, a travel consultant based in Portland, Ore., who specializes in award bookings and maximizing frequent-flier benefits. ''They would really make an effort to impress the customer and not nickel-and-dime you.'' Today, he said, a top-tier flier ''would be laughed at'' for making such requests.
SO who is it that the airlines are rewarding these days? Those who pay up. Airlines are increasingly giving their best rewards not to just passengers who fly the most but also those who pay the highest fares. If an elite customer buys a full-fare coach seat, for example, that person will typically trump another elite in the same tier who has not when it comes to an upgrade.
Some airlines have built this thinking into their award programs. In 2010, Southwest moved from a system that awarded participants credit for flights to one that awards points based on the amount of money spent. And airlines have long offered invitation-only programs like United's Global Services and American's ConciergeKey, which lavish perks on those who spend the most on flights.
''Whether or not you are the best customer is not as important as it used to be,'' said Rick Seaney, the chief executive of Farecompare.com, a travel Web site. Frequent-flier programs are actually more egalitarian. You get the perks, regardless, ''if you have enough money.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: Pampered Like Royalty, Or Canned Like Sardines? You bought a domestic coach seat on Delta* and you're hoping to get a free upgrade at the gate, but there is only one first-class seat available. Follow the steps to find out what your chances are. (GRAPHICS BY SERGIO PECANHA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(TR1
TR6)
 GRAPHIC (TR6-TR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



376 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Bypassing the Grape But Enjoying Its Fruits

BYLINE: By NICOLE LaPORTE

 BODY:
CAMERON HUGHES sees nothing romantic about being a winemaker. Having a rolling vineyard to call his own? Taking that first sip of a homegrown pinot noir? He can live without it, thanks -- and he does, even as he has become a prominent name in the California wine industry.
Mr. Hughes, who started by selling wine out of the back of his Volvo station wagon in 2002, is a wine negociant, or wine merchant. He does not own a vineyard or a winery. Instead, from offices in San Francisco and Calistoga, Calif., he outsources all the labor that goes into making a bottle of wine -- growing the grapes, crushing and fermenting them, and other steps in the process -- to others. 
''All we do is bring the barrels,'' Mr. Hughes said.
Actually, he does a bit more than that. During the worldwide wine glut of the recent recession, his company, Cameron Hughes Wine, flourished as he bought up excess wine from wineries, repackaged it under his own label and sold it at a discount.
One of the first wines he ever sold was a syrah from the Lodi region of California that had a retail price of $28. Mr. Hughes sold it at Costco for $8.99 under his generic-sounding Lot series -- it was Lot 1. (Per nondisclosure agreements he has with sellers, he does not reveal where his so-called bulk wines come from, but merely describes their aromas, flavors and area of origin.)
Initially, Mr. Hughes said, he ''stood in Costco doing my carnival barking act'' as he tried to sell his wines to customers. ''You'd hear me on the other side of the store, talking about wine. I had store managers come over and be like, 'Dude, you've got to tone it down.' ''
Mr. Hughes has stormed in on a profession that many consider sacred and has imbued it with some capitalistic swagger -- not unlike Fred Franzia, the vintner behind Trader Joe's discount wine, Charles Shaw, a k a Two Buck Chuck.
Negociants like Mr. Hughes are much more common in Europe. In the United States, ''most people want to have a vineyard,'' said Liz Thach, a professor of management and wine business at Sonoma State University. ''The soil, the terroir, they want to have the whole thing. We have more than 7,000 wineries in the U.S. and most of them are very small and run by people who want to have a small, family business and the pride that goes into that.''
It is notoriously difficult to make a profit on a vineyard, and some wealthy owners pour money into tending grapes knowing full well that they may lose money for years. Winemaking is ''a labor of love for many, many people,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''And it is for us, too, but we figured out how to make a buck, too.''
Most of his bucks were made buying and selling bulk wine, but these days, Mr. Hughes puts most of his resources behind actually making wine -- or, rather, having others make it for him.
Working with wineries and vineyards in California, Oregon and Washington, as well as in Europe, he is on track to produce 300,000 cases of wine -- equaling 5,000 tons of crushed grapes -- this year. That's even as poor harvests have resulted in a projected wine shortage for the next several years. In some cases, Mr. Hughes pairs a vineyard with a winery to create a wine according to specifications that he devises with his three winemakers and viticulturist.
''We outsource the work, but we oversee it very closely,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''We visit these vineyards numerous times. We have our viticulturist traveling the state right now, visiting all the vineyards. When the time comes for crushing and fermenting, our winemakers are there as well, getting daily lab updates.''
In other instances, Mr. Hughes might come in just after wine has been fermented, assemble various blends and then send them to the barrel to age.
Either way, the low-overhead nature of his business means that his wines, sold in places as diverse as Sam's Club, boutique wine shops and on the Internet, are 50 percent to 70 percent cheaper, he said, than they would be under their winery's label.
So how did he enter this idiosyncratic profession? ''Purely by accident,'' he says.
After starting out as a cellar rat -- a low-level winery employee -- at Corbett Canyon, a popular inexpensive wine label, he decided that he didn't want to be a wine producer, and went into wine sales and marketing instead. A few years later, when he was working for a French wine importing company, he first heard about negociants.
When the importer went bust not long thereafter, Mr. Hughes saw a place for himself in the wine world. ''I bought 500 cases of Napa Valley cabernet, I had a guy bottle it up for me, and I sold it out of the back of my Volvo station wagon.''
After struggling to the point that he teetered on the edge of bankruptcy, he said, he got his big break in 2004, when he persuaded Costco to start selling his Lot series.
Because both he and the origins of his wine were unknowns, building trust among customers was its own kind of labor. At Costco in San Francisco, where Mr. Hughes would stand for hours personally selling his wine, ''They're like, 'I've never heard of it,' and they'd walk on by,'' he recalled.''I used to tell people, 'If you don't like it, I'll come wash your car for you.' You just did whatever it took to get people to try it.''
PROFESSOR THACH said she admired Mr. Hughes's ''heady vision.''
''He worked really hard to get Costco to pay attention to him, and when they did, it put him on the map,'' she said.
Over the years, Mr. Hughes has built up his business ''one foxhole at a time,'' as he puts it -- in 2011, he sold 80 different Lot wines, compared with three his first year.
And never once did he have to wash a car.
E-mail: proto@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cameron Hughes sampled wine blends at his company's offices in Calistoga, Calif. It owns no vineyards or wineries, and outsources all the labor that goes into making a bottle of wine. Among its offerings are the Lot series, top right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OUTSOURCING (75%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



377 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: How Banks Could Return The Favor

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LIKE millions of homeowners, shrewd state and local governments are looking to refinance. Interest rates have hit rock bottom. So why not save some public money by replacing old debts with new ones at lower rates?
The bad news for taxpayers is that such easy refis are out of the question for many governments and agencies short on cash. And that's because these borrowers have been trapped by Wall Street.
Behind all of this is -- you guessed it -- derivatives. Bankers have embedded interest-rate swaps in many long-term municipal bonds. Back when, they persuaded states and others to issue bonds and simultaneously enter into swaps. In these arrangements, the banks agreed to make variable-rate payments to the issuers -- and the issuers, in turn, agreed to make fixed-rate payments to the banks involved.
These swaps were supposed to save the public some money. And, for a while, they did. Then the financial crisis hit -- and rates went south and stayed there. Now issuers are paying bond holders above-market rates as high as 6 percent. In return, they are collecting a pittance from banks -- typically 0.5 percent to 1 percent. 
Why not just refinance the old bonds? Well, if you think it's costly to refinance a home mortgage, try refinancing a derivatives-laced muni. The price, in the form of a termination fee, can be enormous. New York State, for one, has paid $243 million in recent years to extricate itself from swaps-related debt. That money went straight from taxpayers' pockets to Wall Street.
Corporations rarely do deals like these, because they generally avoid making long-term bets on interest rates. But bankers sold the idea to public borrowers. The total bill to terminate all of these swaps-related deals would run into many billions.
Officials who have done such financing typically defend it. They say these deals were struck at lower rates than those associated with fixed-rate debt at the time. Therefore, the defenders say, the deals have saved money for issuers and taxpayers.
But if states, cities and others had issued plain vanilla fixed-rate debt to begin with, they could have refinanced much of it by now at little or no cost. They would be paying significantly lower financing costs and would not be facing huge penalties to get out of the deals.
LAST week, a study was published by the Refund Transit Coalition, a group that supports public transit, detailing some of these harmful deals. Entitled ''Riding the Gravy Train,'' it said it had found 1,100 swaps deals at more than 100 government agencies that are costing taxpayers $2.5 billion a year.
The report delves into the high costs of swaps-related debt at 12 transit agencies nationwide, including authorities in Boston, Chicago, Detroit, New York, San Francisco and Baton Rouge, La. In these 12 systems alone, swaps deals are costing riders $529 million a year, the study says. That's the difference between the fixed rate paid by the issuers and the floating rates they receive.
This difference certainly adds to the burden that cash-starved transit agencies already shoulder. A 2011 study by the American Public Transportation Association found that of 117 transit agencies surveyed, half had cut service or raised fares. Money that might go toward services is going to swaps instead. So think of these swaps as a kind of Wall Street-driven austerity measure. Everybody else -- workers, riders, taxpayers -- makes concessions. Banks give up nothing.
When issuers do decide to escape these snares, the hefty termination fees are typically paid for with new debt deals. For example, of the $243 million that New York State paid to terminate its swaps deals recently, $191 million was financed by new debt issuance. This may dull the immediate pain, but it only adds to taxpayers' burden by piling an interest rate onto the termination cost.
The trillion-dollar question is why debt issuers don't push the banks to cut or reduce these exit fees. Yes, swaps are contractual arrangements that were agreed to in better days. But issuers that raise a lot of money in the debt markets have considerable leverage, given how much they pay Wall Street banks to underwrite their debt.
In New York, for example, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority plans to issue $2.2 billion in new debt this year and may refinance an additional $6 billion.
Why doesn't the M.T.A. use that leverage to prod banks to lower exit fees on some of the $3.3 billion in debt issued with swaps? Patrick McCoy, the M.T.A. finance director, was asked precisely that when testifying in a recent arbitration case between the Amalgamated Transit Union and New York City Transit.
First, Mr. McCoy expressed surprise at the idea. Then he said he had no plans to use any leverage the M.T.A. might have, like suggesting that the agency wouldn't place new bonds with a bank unless it agreed to renegotiate on the swaps.
That led the arbitration panel's chairman to say, ''Such renegotiations may not be successful, but it is more than difficult to understand why the authority is of the opinion that it should not even try.''
In an interview on Friday, I asked Mr. McCoy why he wouldn't ask the banks that underwrite M.T.A. bonds for concessions on the swaps debt.
''It's working,'' he said. ''Why would I want to incur the costs, aggravation and bad faith that goes with it to suggest that we want out?''
The fight has been taken up by Rebecca Kaplan, a councilwoman in Oakland, Calif. Trying to negotiate an escape from a swap that is costing her city $4 million a year, she wrote a letter in 2011 to Goldman Sachs, the banker on the deal, asking it to reduce the exit fees, which stand at $15.5 million.
''When taxpayers bailed out these big banks there was a social contract made,'' said Jason Overman, Ms. Kaplan's spokesman. ''We did them a favor, but then when they're back on their feet they're not extending us that same courtesy.''
A few weeks ago at Goldman's annual meeting, Lloyd C. Blankfein, its C.E.O., was asked about tearing up the Oakland swap. He said: ''I don't think we're in a position to do that,'' adding that it would not be fair to shareholders.
James A. Parrott, deputy director and chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute in New York, criticizes these deals along with officials who don't try to get out of them.
''Government officials need to acknowledge that they made a mistake when they signed up for these ill-conceived, high-risk financial bets,'' Mr. Parrott said. ''But that mistake is woefully compounded when they then impose austerity rather than stand up to the banks.''
You know the score. Once again, it's Wall Street 1, Main Street 0.
Correction: June 17, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Fair Game column last Sunday, about state and local governments that are aiming to refinance bonds containing interest rate swaps, misidentified the recipients of fixed rates of interest in these instruments. The issuer pays a fixed rate to banks involved in the transaction, not to bond holders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); BOND ISSUES (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012



378 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: In New York, French Politics Is Local

BYLINE: By EMILY BRENNAN

 BODY:
FLANKED by four campaign volunteers and a French television reporter, Corinne Narassiguin, a Socialist candidate in France's coming parliamentary elections, went canvassing in her would-be district one evening in May.
But the doors she was knocking on were in the West Village.
''Bonjour, madame,'' Ms. Narassiguin said over a town house's intercom.
A volunteer leaned in to ask in French, ''Would you like to talk for a few minutes, if you have time?''
The woman didn't -- she was putting her children to bed -- but she did plan to vote for Ms. Narassiguin. ''Merci beaucoup,'' Ms. Narassiguin said, campaign postcards with her photograph in hand. As they went down the stoop, a volunteer shouted to the others, ''It's a vote!'' 
On June 16, for the first time, French nationals living in the United States and Canada will elect a deputy to represent them in the National Assembly of France. There are 11 such new parliamentary seats for citizens living abroad, in Europe and the rest of the globe. The North American constituency counts 156,683 registered voters -- less than a quarter of the size of a United States Congressional district.
Those voters are spread across a continent, but in New York, the campaigns have looked a lot like local politics. For the past six months, candidates and voters have popped up in places where the French fit right in with the scenery. In elegant dark suits and cocktail dresses, they mingled and drank red wine in a hotel restaurant in Midtown Manhattan for a campaign's start. After a stump speech, they sat for ''plats du jour'' in a Manhattan bistro decorated with murals of Provencal life.
There have been less-expected gatherings, too: French men and women in a Brooklyn park under blue, white and red balloons; at a dilapidated playhouse in Greenwich Village; at an Irish pub, trying their best to eat Buffalo chicken wings with knives and forks.
And a week before the final vote, the race here has become a contest between a plucky newcomer and a political insider who finds himself on the outs. Ms. Narassiguin, 37, a finance professional who has lived in New York for 13 years, will square off against Frederic Lefebvre, 48, a former junior minister in the economy ministry and government spokesman under President Nicolas Sarkozy, who is representing the conservative Union for a Popular Movement party.
In the first round of voting last week, Ms. Narassiguin, who is running as a member of President Francois Hollande's Socialist Party and is also representing the Green Party, received 39.65 percent of the vote, ahead of Mr. Lefebvre's 22.08 percent -- a surprising lead for a candidate once considered the underdog. But now that independent candidates on the right have been eliminated, Mr. Lefebvre could still consolidate the fractured conservative vote and win.
THE Consulate General of France in New York has the largest concentration of French nationals in the United States, and the population is growing; 31,400 are currently registered, up from 19,901 in 2000. Such numbers can hide in plain sight in a city of eight million. But back in France, the wealth and influence of Francophone New York are consequential. So it is no surprise that the city has emerged as an important stage for the North American campaign -- along with Montreal, which has close ties to France -- and that several of the 16 candidates eliminated in the first round of voting on June 2 were New Yorkers.
Antoine Treuille, 63, a former investment manager, is president of the French-American Foundation. Julien Balkany, 31, a hedge-fund manager, descends from a political family (his half-brother, Patrick, a legislator, is a close ally of Mr. Sarkozy). And Emile Servan-Schreiber, 49, an entrepreneur, is well known thanks to his father, Jean-Jacques, who wrote the 1967 book ''The American Challenge,'' a warning against American economic domination. (Mr. Servan-Schreiber reached even further into the past for a legacy, telling voters that -- if elected -- he would be the first American citizen to sit in the National Assembly since Thomas Paine.)
The French population in New York City skews toward young professionals, according to the consulate. Finance is the most common sector in which they work, and the Upper East Side is the most popular neighborhood in Manhattan where they live.
And though New York City is blue-state territory in America, it's decidedly conservative in French politics. In last month's presidential election, Mr. Hollande won 51.6 percent of the overall vote to Mr. Sarkozy's 48.4 percent. But among French voters in the United States, Mr. Sarkozy received 61.30 percent -- and even slightly more among those registered with the New York consulate.
''A lot of French expatriates work in industries that, even in France, would vote toward the UMP,'' Sophie Meunier, a scholar of international affairs at Princeton University, said, using the French shorthand for the conservative party. ''And if you live in the U.S. long enough -- and this is only half a joke -- you realize how moderate the economic policies of the UMP are. On economic issues, Sarkozy would be to the left of the Democratic Party.''
In New York, only the polling station in Brooklyn counted more votes for Mr. Hollande. Carroll Gardens and Cobble Hill, neighborhoods dotted with bistros and cafes along Smith Street, draw many French families because of the dynamic bilingual education offered at Public School 58. It is an area Ms. Narassiguin considers her base and why she centered her canvassing there and in the East Village.
Asked if her base could also be found in the Upper East Side, she smiled and said, ''Definitely not.''
A WEEK and a half before the first round of voting, the French Institute Alliance Francaise held a debate sponsored by the news Web site French Morning. Before an audience of 300 in plush red-velvet seats, seven candidates strode onto the stage, the image of the French legislature's Palais Bourbon projected behind them. Apologies made for Mr. Lefebvre's absence (he was campaigning in Montreal) were met with boos.
Questions covered a range of concerns for voters in North America. What to do with the system of subsidies for schooling, which currently provides stipends only to students who are enrolled at accredited, but expensive, private institutions like Lycee Francais? Should French nationals abroad pay taxes to France?
And what of Mr. Hollande's proposal to impose a 75 percent marginal tax rate on incomes above 1 million euros a year?
''In a period of crisis,'' Ms. Narassiguin began, ''it's important, in a very symbolic way, to show that we no longer accept this income gap, which has become absolutely obscene in France.''
Mr. Balkany, a conservative independent, responded: ''The proposition is completely demagogic. Instead of implementing a punitive taxation, it would be better to implement tax incentives so that those of us who live abroad and have found success have a desire to return to France.''
Ms. Narassiguin started to defend this ''symbolic proposition,'' but then Philippe Manteau, 40, a candidate from Brooklyn, interjected: ''It's not symbolic for those who pay.''
The audience was delighted.
IT would have been all but unimaginable for a Socialist candidate to take North America in 2008, when Mr. Sarkozy moved to create the 11 constituencies abroad. Some members of the Socialist Party accused him of ''charcutage,'' or gerrymandering, for the Union for a Popular Movement because the expatriate population voted so reliably right.
But now it seems distinctly possible that Ms. Narassiguin could be the winner, thanks not only to her tireless year-and-a-half campaign and the good will she inherited from Mr. Hollande's election, but also to the ill will directed toward Mr. Lefebvre, who last lived in North America as a toddler.
''Lefebvre doesn't know the issues,'' Mr. Balkany said in February. ''He only took this constituency because the UMP couldn't find him another. The man doesn't even speak English.''
An in-depth interview on ''Charlie Rose'' in April showed that Mr. Lefebvre does speak English, and fluently. But with his accent and occasional malapropisms, he reads like a French politician, a visiting dignitary, and this has left him open to accusations that he is a carpetbagger, or as the French say, ''un parachute.''
At the same time, Mr. Lefebvre does not mince words about this election's being part of a national battle. On a visit in May to Provence en Boite, a restaurant in Carroll Gardens, over croissants and coffee he told the restaurant's owner, ''It's the Socialist Party against the UMP in these legislative elections here in North America like everywhere else.'' Supporters had been approaching him, he said, telling him how important it was to them that the Union for a Popular Movement lead parliament and counterbalance President Hollande.
So how will New York vote next Saturday?
With overall voter turnout only 20 percent in the first round, the election could go either way. Emmanuel Saint-Martin, a France 24 television journalist who has covered the elections closely on French Morning, said the second round was now a ''tossup.''
''The question is whether Lefebvre will be able to attract those who voted for independent conservative candidates,'' he said, since voters on the right still outnumber those on the left. ''But some might be tempted to stay home.''
Corentin Charles, 20, a student at Columbia University who volunteered for Mr. Balkany's campaign, said: ''Lefebvre fits my politics. But he doesn't know the daily preoccupations of people here.'' He added: ''Narassiguin is young, she's lived in the U.S., she's got her feet on the earth, but she's supporting President Hollande, which doesn't make me want to vote for her.''
Though Mr. Balkany has recently said that he would ultimately vote for Mr. Lefebvre, Mr. Charles remained undecided. ''I'm hesitating,'' he said, adding that he might cast a blank vote and choose neither.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEBATE: Corinne Narassiguin seeks to represent French expats in the United States and Canada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
ELECTION YEAR: French nationals in New York City voted in the first round of French presidential elections in April, above. In a race for parliamentary seats, candidates, including Frederic Lefebvre, near left, have canvassed the city. At far left, an event held by Julien Balkany in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (64%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); RICK PERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



379 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Health Care After the Supreme Court Ruling

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK. 
A health reporter for The New York Times and the author of ''Island Practice: Cobblestone Rash, Underground Tom, and Other Adventures of a Nantucket Doctor.''

 BODY:
LATER this month, the Supreme Court will rule on the Obama administration's health care law, the Affordable Care Act, deciding whether to uphold or strike down the entire law, or to keep some provisions.
No matter the decision, the political ramifications in this election year will be big. After all, the presidential contenders are President Obama, the top-ranking promoter of the law, and Mitt Romney, the architect of a 2006 health care overhaul in Massachusetts that was, in pivotal ways, the model for the national law.
But experts on health care policy say the practical effect of the court's decision will probably be less earth-shattering than some people think. If the court takes what many observers believe will be the most likely route and strikes down the individual mandate -- the requirement that virtually everyone purchase insurance -- many more currently uninsured people are still likely to receive health coverage, they say. 
Even if the law is struck down entirely -- which could happen if the court decides that the other provisions are too intertwined with the mandate -- many experts say that some changes the law has already set in motion will continue, probably more slowly, but possibly at a more urgent pace in reaction to the elimination of the federal law.
''It would have less effect in the short term than most people might think, but it would have much more of a psychological and political effect,'' said Gail Wilensky, a health economist who headed Medicare and Medicaid during the administration of the elder President Bush. She suggested that, while the individual mandate seems vulnerable to being ruled unconstitutional, striking down the entire law seems ''highly unlikely, and to my way of thinking, highly undesirable, because I think it's unnecessary.''
And if the law is upheld? More people will get coverage, but significant problems in the health care system will remain. Chief among them is the high cost of medical care. Massachusetts, for example, has only begun to tackle the issue of health care costs, with proposals in the State Legislature that were introduced this year.
Still, nationally, there are now some pilot programs by insurers and hospitals trying to tackle pieces of the cost problem on their own.
''I think much of the transformation of the health care delivery system is moving forward, regardless of the court action,'' said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a nonpartisan research foundation in New York. ''How do we get more efficient? How do we keep people out of hospitals? People are kind of gearing up for this. That's going to continue. Obviously, it will continue at a faster pace if some of the payments for quality and efficiency in the law continue, but we are already beginning to see a slowdown in hospital costs nationally.''
Most of the major elements of the Affordable Care Act have not taken effect, and would not until 2014. The full law would extend coverage to about 30 million uninsured people -- roughly 17 million of those would be covered through an expansion of state Medicaid programs to include everyone earning up to 138 percent of the income established as the federal poverty line. The Medicaid expansion could still take place if the individual mandate were to be struck down, a number of health care experts say.
The individual mandate would require that millions of uninsured people who are not eligible for Medicaid purchase insurance or that their employers provide it. Subsidies would be available through insurance exchanges, and those who could not show a valid reason for not purchasing insurance would pay a penalty on their income taxes.
If the individual mandate is eliminated, but the exchanges remain, significant numbers of uninsured people are likely to purchase insurance anyway, said Amy Lischko, who served in Mr. Romney's administration when he was governor and helped craft the Massachusetts health care overhaul.
''PEOPLE are still going to purchase the insurance because it's a better deal than before,'' said Dr. Lischko, now an associate professor at the Tufts University School of Medicine. ''You'll get people who have illnesses,'' whose health care costs are more expensive, but ''you'll still get people who are reasonably healthy.''
Dr. Lischko and other experts said they were more concerned about two other provisions that could be struck down if the mandate was eliminated: guaranteed issue, in which coverage is offered to people who have pre-existing conditions, and community rating, which requires insurance companies to offer coverage at the same price to people regardless of their health status.
But in some ways these two provisions, the mandate and the subsidies all go together. ''States that have tried community rating and guaranteed issue without a mandate and without subsidies saw a 'death spiral,' '' Dr. Lischko said, in which more sick people and fewer healthy people enter the insurance pool. ''That is because healthy people were rated similar to sick people, and sick people were guaranteed coverage, so people waited until they needed coverage'' to obtain insurance.
If all these provisions go, ''I still think you get some sick people, but maybe not the sickest because plans don't have to offer coverage to them,'' she said. To draw in healthy people, she said, insurance companies might charge a penalty for people who do not buy insurance when they become eligible, something that Medicare already does.
Still, some warn that the longer-term consequences of striking down the individual mandate could be more significant. Even though some healthy people will voluntarily purchase insurance, ''you'll probably have somewhat older and sicker people in the risk pool, which means it will be more expensive,'' said Jean Abraham, a health economist at the University of Minnesota and former senior economist in both the Obama and George W. Bush administrations. Eventually, she said, ''people who are lower utilizers of health care won't find it to be an option and you'll lose more healthy people over time as premiums go up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); MEDICARE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



380 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: 'Land Of Promise'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In accepting a flawed description of two historically competing philosophies -- Hamiltonian and Jeffersonian -- David Leonhardt's review of ''Land of Promise,'' by Michael Lind (May 27), shares Lind's obliviousness of the reality of class power in American history. 
Underlying Jefferson's opposition to a strong central government was the fear that such a government would be dominated by commercial and banking interests -- as is the case today -- whereas those are the classes that Hamilton championed. Therefore, it is an egregious error to place George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan in the Jeffersonian camp, as Leonhardt and Lind do. Reagan in particular wanted a huge military and weak government control over corporations (but not over individual rights) -- he also wanted to weaken the ''wall of separation'' between state and religion -- the opposite of Jefferson.
Indeed, the conflicting views on strong central government versus states' rights are largely determined by who is expected to control those respective governments. This explains the shift of ''Jeffersonians'' to support New Deal limits on business and financial excesses, in the true spirit of Jefferson, who dreaded the unfettered rule of these classes.
ROGER CARASSO Los Angeles The writer is a professor emeritus of political science at California State University, Northridge.
To the Editor:
The traditional distinction between Jeffersonians and Hamiltonians presented by Michael Lind and accepted by David Leonhardt is obsolete. There are elements of both in the two parties. Republicans want a large, aggressive military and support big corporations. Democrats emphasize social and other domestic programs. Republicans want economic and gun freedom, while Democrats favor personal rights.
BOB FURMAN New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



381 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Latino Growth Not Fully Felt At Voting Booth

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Marisa Gerber contributed reporting from Nogales, Ariz.; Dan Frosch from Colorado and New Mexico; and Susannah Nesmith from Miami.

 BODY:
DENVER -- The nation's rapidly growing Latino population is one of the most powerful forces working in President Obama's favor in many of the states that will determine his contest with Mitt Romney. But Latinos are not registering or voting in numbers that fully reflect their potential strength, leaving Hispanic leaders frustrated and Democrats worried as they increase efforts to rally Latino support.
Interviews with Latino voters across the country suggested a range of reasons for what has become, over a decade, an entrenched pattern of nonparticipation, ranging from a distrust of government to a fear of what many see as an intimidating effort by law enforcement and political leaders to crack down on immigrants, legal or not.
Here in Denver, Ben Monterosso, the executive director of Mi Familia Vota, or My Family Votes, a national group that helps Latinos become citizens and register to vote, gathered organizers around a table in his office and recited census data demonstrating the lack of Latino participation. 
''Our potential at the ballot box is not being maximized,'' Mr. Monterosso told them. ''The untapped potential is there.''
More than 21 million Latinos will be eligible to vote this November, clustered in pockets from Colorado to Florida, as well as in less obvious states like Illinois, Iowa, North Carolina and Virginia. Yet just over 10 million of them are registered, and even fewer turn out to vote.
In the 2008 presidential election, when a record 10 million Latinos showed up at the polls nationwide, that amounted to just half of the eligible voters. By contrast, 66 percent of eligible whites and 65 percent of eligible blacks voted, according to a study by the Pew Hispanic Center.
That disparity is echoed in swing states across the country. In Nevada, 42 percent of eligible Hispanics are registered, while just 35 percent are registered in Virginia, according to Latino Decisions, which studies Latino voting trends.
Although Latinos do not turn up at the polls in the same numbers, relative to their population, as other ethnic groups, their overall numbers are growing so rapidly that they are nevertheless on the verge of becoming the powerful force in American politics that officials in both parties have long anticipated -- an effect that would only be magnified should they somehow begin to match the voting percentages of other ethnic groups.
Mr. Obama's campaign has seized on that as a central part of his re-election strategy, with an early burst of three Spanish-language television advertisements in four swing states, including Colorado, and voter registration drives in Latino neighborhoods.
''Hi, are you registered to vote?'' Linda Vargas, 62, called out in English and Spanish to people walking into a public library on the outskirts of Denver as she sat behind a table stacked with voter registration forms.
This segment of the American electorate is by any measure sprawling, with near-explosive population growth in places like California and Texas and growing numbers in swing states like Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Nevada and New Mexico. Their presence in such politically important states has only fed the frustration of Latino organizers over their underrepresentation at the polls.
Matt A. Barreto, an associate professor of political science at the University of Washington and head of Latino Decisions, said the population growth had produced a higher Latino vote in every presidential election over the last decade, a number that had the effect of masking the political apathy of many Latino voters.
''The population growth has driven increases in the Latino vote every year,'' he said. ''But we still need to confront a registration gap that is quite significant.''
Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, said Latino voters were a critical factor in the president's re-election hopes. ''Look, if we do our job right and have a good ground game, I absolutely believe that Latino voters can be one of the big reasons we win this election,'' he said.
Officials in Mr. Romney's campaign argued that he would cut into Mr. Obama's Latino support by challenging his record on the economy, and how, they said, it had been particularly harmful to Latinos. Last week, the Romney campaign posted a Spanish-language advertisement on its Web site pointing to rising unemployment among Latinos.
''Understand the dynamic of this election: it's about the economy and it's about jobs,'' said Joshua Baca, who is responsible for the Romney campaign's Hispanic outreach. ''Whatever the Obama campaign wants to do with regards to targeting Hispanic voters, that's fine. Our message is going to be, 'It doesn't matter if you are Hispanic, if you're a woman, if you're African-American: it's the economy.' ''
Latino voters overwhelmingly support Mr. Obama over Mr. Romney, according to recent polls. The anger at Republicans for supporting tough immigration laws, like the one passed in Arizona last year, is powerful and potentially damaging to Mr. Romney after a Republican primary in which the candidates largely rallied behind that law.
Yet interviews suggest lingering concerns with what many see as Mr. Obama's failure to deliver on promises to change the immigration system, as well as distress about his stewardship of the economy. Together, those forces appear to be producing a general wariness of government.
''They promise, 'Oh, we're going to do this for the Hispanic community, we're going to do that,' and we never get even half of the things that they promise,'' said Derkis Sanchez, 51, an independent who lives in Miami.
Evidence of the lack of participation can be found across the West, and particularly in Colorado, a state that could be one of the most contested in November. In 2010, 114,000 of the 455,000 Latinos eligible to vote in the state turned out, a study by Latino Decisions found; 47 percent of eligible voters are registered today.
The number of Latinos eligible to vote nationally may overstate their actual influence. Of the 21 million, nearly 10 million live in California or Texas, which are unlikely to be in play in November.
And while an influx of younger voters is helping to push up the overall number, younger voters have historically been disproportionately uninterested in politics, a particular challenge in Colorado given that the Latino population is younger than the overall population. A Pew study found that one-third of the nation's eligible Hispanic voters are between 18 and 29; but they make up just 22 percent of the overall population.
Arturo Vargas, the head of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, said his organization projected that 12.2 million Latino voters would turn out this November.
''But we do have a performance gap between Hispanic voters and non-Hispanic voters,'' he said.
Many analysts argue that the demographic wave of Hispanic voters that began in California in 1994, with a backlash to a state voter initiative backed by Republicans that prohibited illegal immigrants from using public services, is now sweeping over Arizona and Colorado, and eventually will return even Texas to the Democratic fold.
''I believe long term all those states are coming on the map,'' Mr. Messina said.
Democrats and Republicans have recognized the rising power of Latino voters for over a decade; advisers to George W. Bush had repeatedly identified Hispanics as central to building a long-lasting electoral coalition. But the Republican position has dropped sharply as the party has been identified with tough policies focused on illegal immigrants.
Republicans have also pushed to impose tough restrictions on voter registration, which Democrats and Latino groups attacked as a way to discourage Hispanics, among others, from voting.
''Our state government is kind of repressive against immigration,'' said Alejandro Martinez, 32, a Democrat who lives in Nogales, Ariz. ''They're afraid to go out there and vote.''
Organizers meeting with Mr. Monterosso said they had encountered deep reservations among Hispanics across party lines.
''When I hear a lot of Latinos say they are U.S. citizens but they are not registered to vote, that makes me worried: we are not helping one another,'' said Jose Sanchez, 24. ''I'm seeing in our community a lot of frustration, a lot of anger, a lot of disappointment and a lot of fear. We have a president that promised so much to our community but has offered us really bad news.''
Mr. Monterosso, sitting quietly as Mr. Sanchez spoke, responded that Republicans had led the way in demonizing Latinos for political gain. ''Every single attack on our community has come from the Republican side,'' he said.
Just outside Denver, Daniel Lucero, the co-owner of a barbershop, said neither political party had paid enough attention to Latino voters.
''I would say the majority I know, maybe 10 to 12 percent of them vote,'' said Mr. Lucero, 66. ''The rest don't care. They feel like politics doesn't affect them.''
In Nogales, Barbara Gudenkauf, said many of her fellow Latinos ''feel like their issues aren't being addressed. 'My vote is not going to count. Why bother to take the time off work if it's not going to make a difference?' ''
On a hot afternoon in Las Vegas recently, Leo Murrieta, the director of Mi Familia Vota in Nevada, drove to the Department of Motor Vehicles office in a Latino neighborhood and watched as his workers, voter registration forms in hand, stopped people outside the office.
''I have staff out in 10 places today,'' he said. ''There's a lot of work to be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Linda Vargas works as a volunteer in Denver with Mi Familia Vota, which helps Latinos become citizens and register to vote. (A1)
JOSE SANCHEZ, an organizer with Mi Familia Vota
DANIEL LUCERO, co-owner of a barbershop outside Denver (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DERKIS SANCHEZ, an independent who lives in Miami (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Barbara Gudenkauf of Nogales, Ariz., said many of her fellow Latinos felt that ''their issues aren't being addressed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA SAIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHARTS: The Hispanic Electorate: The gap between Hispanics eligible to vote and those who register and turn out to vote has continued to grow, though Hispanic turnout has surpassed that of Asians in recent elections. (Sources: Pew Hispanic Center
 Latino Decisions)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNICITY (88%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CENSUS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (71%) COLORADO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



382 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; RIFF; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Liberals Are Ruining America. I Know Because I Am One.

BYLINE: By STEVE ALMOND

 BODY:
In the spring of 2006, I quit my job as an adjunct professor at Boston College to protest the school's selection of Condoleezza Rice as commencement speaker. My resignation letter, published online by The Boston Globe, went viral. Over the next few days, I received hundreds of e-mails, evenly divided between praise and condemnation, along with numerous invitations to appear on cable television.
The most tempting offer came from ''Hannity & Colmes.'' As I viewed it then, Sean Hannity represented the bane of American civic life: a blow-dried blowhard paid to vilify his enemies and incite his imbecilic fans. I leapt at the chance to confront him on live TV.
A producer promised me 10 minutes of airtime, during which I would be free to voice my objections to Rice, the former secretary of state. As it turned out, my interview ran just over three minutes, much of which I spent trying to fend off Hannity's insistence that I voted for John Kerry. Not what I'd envisioned, but I managed to outlast his bullying and even launch a few zingers before my mike was cut. I was immensely pleased with myself, and I happily accepted kudos from fellow lefties. 
Over the past few years, I've come to view my appearance as somewhat less heroic. I hadn't spoken truth to power or caused anyone to reassess Secretary Rice's record. I merely provided a few minutes of gladiatorial stimulation for Fox News. In seeking to assert my moral superiority, I enabled Hannity.
This, to be blunt, is the tragic flaw of the modern liberal. We choose to see ourselves as innocent victims of an escalating right-wing fanaticism. But too often we serve as willing accomplices to this escalation and to the resulting degradation of our civic discourse. We do this, without even meaning to, by consuming conservative folly as mass entertainment.
If this sounds like a harsh assessment, trust me, I'm among the worst offenders. Yes, I'm one of those enlightened masochists who tune in to conservative talk radio when driving alone. I recognize this as pathological behavior, and I always make sure to switch the station back to NPR before returning the car to my wife. But I can't help myself. I take a perverse and complicated pleasure in listening to all the mean, manipulative things those people say.
Of course, not all right-wing pundits spew hate. But the ones who do are the ones we liberals dependably aggrandize. Consider the recent debate over whether employers must cover contraception in their health plans. The underlying question -- should American women receive help in protecting themselves from unwanted pregnancies? -- is part of a serious and necessary national conversation.
Any hope of that conversation happening was dashed the moment Rush Limbaugh began his attacks on Sandra Fluke, the young contraceptive advocate. The left took enormous pleasure in seeing Limbaugh pilloried. To what end, though? Industry experts noted that his ratings actually went up during the flap. In effect, the firestorm helped Limbaugh do his job, at least in the short term.
But the real problem isn't Limbaugh. He's just a businessman who is paid to reduce complex cultural issues to ad hominem assaults. The real problem is that liberals, both on an institutional and a personal level, have chosen to treat for-profit propaganda as news. In so doing, we have helped redefine liberalism as an essentially reactionary movement. Rather than initiating discussion, or advocating for more humane policy, we react to the most vile and nihilistic voices on the right.
Media outlets like MSNBC and The Huffington Post often justify their coverage of these voices by claiming to serve as watchdogs. It would be more accurate to think of them as de facto loudspeakers for conservative agitprop. The demagogues of the world, after all, derive power solely from their ability to provoke reaction. Those liberals (like me) who take the bait, are to blame for their outsize influence.
Even programs that seek to inject some levity into our rancorous political theater run on the same noxious fuel. What would ''The Daily Show'' and ''The Colbert Report'' be without the fulminations of Fox News and the rest of the right-wing hysterics?
Taken as a whole, the arrangement is entirely cynical. This slavish coverage of conservative scoundrels does nothing to illuminate policy or challenge our assumptions. On the contrary, its central goal mirrors that of the pundits it reviles: to boost ratings by reinforcing easy prejudices. These ratings come courtesy of dolts like me: liberals who choose, every day, to click on their links and to watch their shows.
So why do I do this?
The first and most damning reason is that some part of me truly enjoys resenting conservatives. I know I shouldn't, that I should strive for equanimity. But secretly I feel the same helplessness and rage that animates the extreme right wing of this country. I see a world dangerously out of balance -- morally, economically, ecologically -- and my natural impulse is to blame those figures who, in my view, embody the decadent ignorance of the age. They become convenient scapegoats.
Rather than taking up the banner and the burden of the causes I believe in, or questioning my own consumptive habits, I've come to rely on private moments of indignation for moral vindication. I fume at the iniquity of Pundit A and laugh at the hypocrisy of Candidate B and feel absolved -- without ever having left my couch. It's a closed system of scorn and self-congratulation.
My fixation on conservative demagogues also includes a share of covert envy. The truth is that I feel overrun by moral uncertainty, bewildered by the complexity of our planetary crises. Wouldn't it be nice, I ask myself, to feel entirely sure of my beliefs? To shout down anyone who disagrees with me? To dismiss peak oil and global warming as fairy tales? To accept capitalism as a catechism?
But what's really happening when I scoff at Sarah Palin's latest tweet amounts to a mimetic indulgence: I'm bleeding the world of nuance, surrendering to the seduction of binary thinking.
This pattern of defensive grievance, writ large, has derailed the liberal agenda and crippled the nation's moral progress.
A century ago, as an early great champion of progressivism, Teddy Roosevelt dismantled our society's engines of greed. Under the leadership of presidents from F.D.R. to L.B.J., left-wingers waged war on corporate excess, institutional racism and poverty. There was a widespread and galvanizing belief in government as a force for good in the lives of the disenfranchised.
By contrast, consider the popular response to the Great Recession. The Tea Party -- inflamed and partly financed by well-funded lobbying groups -- took to the streets to blame government for a crisis caused primarily by Wall Street. Liberals did little aside from condemning the Tea Party. It wasn't until the Occupy Wall Street movement began, nearly four years later (at the instigation of the Canadian magazine Adbusters), that those on the American left began to protest economic inequality, and even then the movement could articulate no specific policy goals. The same general passivity marked our reaction to the perceived moral atrocities of the Bush era, from the war in Iraq to domestic surveillance to our torture program.
The most insidious effect of our addiction to right-wing misanthropy has been the erosion of our more generous instincts. At least for me. I've come to regard all conservatives as extremists, a mob of useful idiots plied by profiteers, rather than a diverse spectrum of citizens, many of whom share my values, anxieties and goals. When I hear the crowd at a Republican presidential debate cheer for capital punishment, I write them off as sadists, rather than accepting them as citizens seeking a means of keeping themselves safe. Slagging conservatism has become my one acceptable form of bigotry.
I'm not trying to soft-pedal the very real pathologies of the modern conservative movement. The rich and powerful have clearly found in the Republican Party a willing collaborator. They've spent billions peddling Americans a failed theology of deregulation and lower taxes that is designed to foster and protect obscene wealth, not to serve the vast majority of our citizens. Thanks to the Supreme Court, the coming election will mark an unprecedented infusion of corporate propaganda into the political bloodstream.
It's for this exact reason that the left can no longer afford to squander time and energy engaging the childish arguments of paid provocateurs. We have to seek out those on the right willing to engage in genuine dialogue and ignore the rest.
Imagine, if you will, the domino effect that would ensue if liberals and moderates simply tuned out the demagogues. Yes, they would still be able to manipulate their legions into endorsing cruel and self-defeating policies. But their voices would be sealed within the echo chamber of extremism and sealed off from the majority of Americans who honestly just want our common problems solved. They would be marginalized in the same way as activists who rant about racial purity or anarchy.
Rush Limbaugh would be a radio host catering to a few million angry commuters, not the alpha male of conservatism. Fox News would be a popular fringe network, not the reliable conduit by which paranoid hogwash infects our mainstream media.
In this world, it would be much harder to mislead people because media outlets would shift their resources to covering the content of proposed legislation, the exploding role of corporate influence in our affairs of state and the scientifically confirmed predicaments we face as a species.
Liberals and moderates would no longer be able to mollify themselves by watching Jon Stewart mock conservative wack jobs. They would be forced to consider their own values and the sort of actions necessary to reify those values in the world. They might even consider breaching our artificially inflated partisan divide.
This last measure, I realize, hasn't worked for President Obama. But he's up against a cohort of politicians underwritten by special interests. We citizens can't use that excuse. We all have the same basic interests: to provide for our families, to worship as we see fit, to pursue happiness. We live in a country of unimaginable abundance. It shouldn't be so hard to find common ground.
I'm as heartbroken as the next liberal at the cynicism of the Republican Party and the inability of Democrats to confront them in blunt moral terms. But as Americans, we are endowed with the freedom to vote for the sort of democracy we want -- not just at the ballot booth, but with our attention and energy. The more we devote to amplifying conflict, the less we listen to each other. Which is precisely what those special interests want: a nation too distracted by wrath to follow the money.
My personal goal is simple: to go cold turkey on conservative wing nuts and instead take up the hard work of genuine political action. It's time for all of us -- liberal, conservative and otherwise -- to define ourselves as Americans not by who we hate but by what we can do to strengthen our communities and country.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM GAULD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); LIBERALISM (86%); CONSERVATISM (86%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%); CONTRACEPTION (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); JOHN KERRY (72%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



383 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Forget the Alamo

BYLINE: By LLOYD GROVE. 
Lloyd Grove, a former reporter for The Corpus Christi Caller-Times and The Dallas Morning News, is an editor at large for Newsweek and The Daily Beast.

 BODY:
AS TEXAS GOES
How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda
By Gail Collins
267 pp. Liveright Publishing/W. W. Norton & Company. $25.95.
Texas -- that vast and various landmass of nearly 26 million souls -- boasts some of the most acclaimed public and private universities, a vibrant art and architecture scene, and world-class symphony orchestras and opera companies. It is one of the nation's leaders in medical research; rightly celebrates its reputation for manned and unmanned space exploration; rejoices in its richly diverse and tasty cultural stew; and glories in its professional football teams.
What's more, it can legitimately brag about its historic role in the advancement of civil rights and the social safety net as enacted by the Stonewall, Tex., native Lyndon Johnson, the most expansively progressive president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt. And that's to say nothing of the contributions to liberal thought and practice by Molly Ivins and Ann Richards. 
This, however, is not the Texas that interests Gail Collins. In ''As Texas Goes . . . ,'' Collins, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times, describes a benighted place that is less one of the United States than a state of mind. It's the mind-set that inspired bellicose slogans like ''Don't Mess With Texas'' and oleaginous epics like ''Giant'' and ''Dallas.'' With its zest for guns, military adventures, right-wing dogma, regressive taxes, deregulation and privatization, Collins's Texas is an ideological oil slick. And, as surely as those expanding red splotches in 1950s newsreels warning against the spread of Communism, it will pollute the entire body politic if left uncontained.
''Texas politicians played central roles in the deregulation of financial markets and the near elimination of energy conservation as a national policy, and . . . the state served as the model for federal savings and loan deregulation and federal education reform. (Neither one quite worked out the way their architects imagined . . . ),'' Collins writes by way of summing up her thesis. ''Texans also led the way in the destruction of all major legislation aimed at global warming, even as their home state was alternately being drowned by hurricanes and dried to a crisp with droughts.'' So overwhelming is its pernicious influence, she argues, that ''if Texas goes south, it's taking us along.''
It's worth noting that three of the powerful Texas politicians Collins repeatedly mentions -- the former House majority leader Dick Armey, former Senator Phil Gramm and former President George W. Bush -- are, like a growing percentage of Texas residents, immigrants from elsewhere (North Dakota, Georgia and Connecticut, respectively), with Armey and Gramm in their 20s when they settled in Texas to teach college-level economics. Which is to say, more and more Texans -- nearly 1.8 million from 2000 to 2009 alone, according to census figures -- arguably had their values formed and their politics shaped outside the state's borders.
Collins dedicates several statistics-filled chapters, some more persuasive than others, to her argument that Texas has been calling the tune on national policies ranging from the risky deregulation of financial institutions to reducing public education to standardized tests. Yet it's not clear how Texas and its elected officials are different from those in other states who zealously promote their regional economic interests regardless of party or ideology -- much as West Virginia's Robert Byrd, the departed ''dean of the Senate,'' served the needs of big coal, and Michigan's John Dingell, the longtime chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, dragged his feet on raising fuel efficiency standards. Then again, if Texas is such a formidable political force, how come Rick Perry -- an attractive three-term governor who is merely the latest of the well-funded Texans who've wanted to be president -- failed to make headway in the Republican primaries? Collins doesn't satisfactorily explain how this inconvenient truth affects her argument. Oops.
Collins devotes the very entertaining first quarter of her book to the foundational myth of Texas' brief, shining moment as an independent republic from 1836 to 1845 and the sacred memory of the Alamo. She illustrates how the massacre of 189 stubborn white men by Gen. Santa Anna's army, in what is today downtown San Antonio, informs every aspect of Texan self-image from the ''cultural identity thing'' to ''the traditional Texas spirit,'' which, she writes, is ''at its best when there's an enemy to rise up against. Outsized and brave. And frequently somewhat lunatic.''
Herself a native Ohioan who has spent much of her professional life in Connecticut and New York, Collins is an admitted Johnny-come-lately to the Texas phenomenon, having been swept off her feet by two recent occurrences. The first was a spring 2009 Tea Party rally at which the fabulously coifed Perry invoked Sam Houston's famous warning against Texas' ''submission to any oppression'' and threatened secession as a possible response to President Obama's stimulus package. The second was a Texas headline sent by a friend: ''Man Allegedly Beat Woman With Frozen Armadillo.'' ''I was totally hooked,'' she writes.
So she set off on a whirlwind tour to discover the Lone Star State and its transcendent meaning, deploying a breezy, wisecracking polemical style familiar to fans (including me) of her twice-/weekly column in The Times. Alas, she also exhibits a fondness for generalizing from eccentric particulars, positing what ''21st-/century Texans'' must believe about this or that nutty idea, like dropping out of the United States to become a sovereign country -- a notion that, despite Collins's insinuation to the contrary, was overwhelmingly rejected by Texans in a Rasmussen poll around the time of Perry's musings. (She cites the 18 percent in the poll who supported secession -- which she points out is ''still a tidy number; . . . you're talking way over four million people'' -- but not the 75 percent who opposed it, a somewhat tidier number.)
As someone who lived and worked in Texas for four years, I can confirm that the Alamo remains a powerful touchstone -- at least for Anglo Texans. But I wonder how long William Travis's doomed battle cry against the attacking Mexicans, ''Victory or death!,'' will continue to resonate in a state where Caucasians today represent a declining minority and Latinos alone, never mind African-Americans, are projected to constitute a majority of Texans by 2030.
Not long, I suspect. Yes, the white Republicans who currently dominate the State Legislature are striving to delay their demographic death; Collins points out that after the 2010 census awarded Texas four new Congressional seats, the Republicans gerrymandered the districts' boundaries ''in a way that made only one ripe for minority takeover.'' But it's hard to see how Texas' exploding new majority, a population that traditionally leans Democratic, will ultimately be denied their victory.
Collins quotes Rosie Castro, the mother of San Antonio's Mexican-American mayor, Julian Castro, as telling The Times that she grew up learning ''that the 'heroes' of the Alamo were a bunch of drunks and crooks and slaveholding imperialists who conquered land that didn't belong to them.'' Collins doesn't hammer home a point that might undermine her thesis, but here's a piece of once-marginalized alternative history that is very likely to become the mainstream narrative. As George Orwell noted in a different context, ''Who controls the past controls the future.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LINCOLN AGNEW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (86%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); WRITERS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); SPACE EXPLORATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); WEATHER (63%); EDUCATION REFORM (61%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PHIL GRAMM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: As Texas Goes: How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



384 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CBS) THE 66TH ANNUAL TONY AWARDS Neil Patrick Harris, above, once again will sing and dance his way through the role of host for this ceremony honoring excellence on Broadway, to be broadcast live from the Beacon Theater in Manhattan. Performers include the casts of the nominees for best musical and musical revival -- ''Newsies,'' ''Nice Work if You Can Get It,'' ''Once,'' ''Evita,'' ''Follies,'' ''The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess,'' ''Jesus Christ Superstar,'' ''Leap of Faith'' -- as well as ''End of the Rainbow,'' ''One Man, Two Guvnors,'' ''Peter and the Starcatcher,'' ''Ghost the Musical'' and ''Godspell.'' ''The Book of Mormon,'' last year's winner for best musical, will also be featured. Ellen Barkin, Candice Bergen, Jessica Chastain, Sheryl Crow, Nick Jonas, Angela Lansbury, James Marsden, Trey Parker, Jim Parsons, Mandy Patinkin, Tyler Perry, Bernadette Peters, Christopher Plummer, Paul Rudd, Amanda Seyfried and Matt Stone are among the presenters. 
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Chris Wallace interviews Gov. Mitch Daniels, Republican of Indiana; Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association; and Thea Lee, deputy chief of staff for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., about the effect of Wisconsin's recall election on the electoral map.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS Former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat; former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, a Republican; the conservative commentator Ann Coulter; and Van Jones, a former environmental adviser for the Obama administration, discuss the Obama campaign, the economy, the Wisconsin recall vote and Mitt Romney's fund-raising edge.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Bob Schieffer interviews Gov. Scott Walker, Republican of Wisconsin, about his recall victory. Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, the head of the Democratic Governors Association, and Richard Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., respond. And the journalists Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein talk about Watergate 40 years later.
8 P.M. (CNN) GLOBAL LESSONS: THE GPS ROAD MAP FOR MAKING IMMIGRATION WORK Fareed Zakaria anchors this special on the United States' immigration policy, as well as those of Japan, Europe and Canada. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York; Kris Kobach, the secretary of state of Kansas; and Robert Guest, the author of ''Borderless Economics: Chinese Sea Turtles, Indian Fridges and the New Fruits of Global Capitalism,'' offer their perspectives.
8 P.M. (VH1) MOB WIVES CHICAGO Five women whose fathers have been linked to ''the outfit,'' Chicago's version of the mob, battle friends, families and each other to secure their standing while living with the fallout of their fathers' legacies.
9 P.M. (HBO) TRUE BLOOD When last we saw Sookie (Anna Paquin), she had summoned her resources for an encounter with Marnie -- and emerged triumphant. But as Season 5 begins, there's a new crisis brewing in Bon Temps, one involving Russell Edgington (Denis O'Hare) and some unexpected threats. Bill (Stephen Moyer) and Eric (Alexander Skarsgard, far right with Mr. Moyer), meanwhile, clean up a mess of their own and receive a visit from the Vampire Authority, whose members include Nora (Lucy Griffiths), a woman from Eric's past. In the season finale of ''Veep,'' at 10, Selina (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) heads to Ohio to support a candidate (Dan Bakkedahl) for governor. And in ''Girls,'' at 10:30, Hannah (Lena Dunham) is inspired to give a literary reading at an event hosted by a former professor (Michael Imperioli).
9 P.M. (National Geographic, Nat Geo Wild) UNTAMED AMERICAS Josh Brolin narrates this four-hour mini-series, which captures wildlife and natural wonders of North and South America. The journey begins as grizzly bears hunt for newborn elk calves in Yellowstone, and male bighorn sheep battle head-to-head for breeding rights in the Rockies. At 10, the show moves to arid environments, where an outcast male mustang fights to regain his place in a Great Basin herd, and Humboldt penguins raise their young in the Atacama Desert in Chile. The program continues Monday night at 9.
9 P.M. (AMC) THE KILLING Finding themselves in city hall with the bloody key card finally in hand, Linden (Mireille Enos) and Holder (Joel Kinnaman) close in on Rosie Larsen's murderer as the Richmond campaign prepares for the election the following day. In the season finale of ''Mad Men,'' at 10, new opportunities arise for the agency's employees, and Pete (Vincent Kartheiser) encounters a stranger on a train. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); THEATER (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (62%); IMMIGRATION (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (54%); AFL-CIO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); MITT ROMNEY (56%); TYLER PERRY (50%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (50%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (50%); ED RENDELL (50%); SCOTT WALKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



385 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo: Not the '08 Campaign, but More May Be at Stake

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
The current election is producing very few goose bumps, except perhaps among those who get all tingly when they view billionaire-financed attack ads.
The incumbent, who drew adoring throngs last time, cannot always fill a room this time. The challenger's risk-averse, carefully plotted strategy is a business plan worthy of a Harvard M.B.A. - and consciously the antithesis of the improvisational, let's-take-a-shot style of the war hero Republican nominee of four years ago.
For sheer intensity and outsize characters, for a sense of history being made as it unfolded, the 2012 election has paled before the 2008 presidential race. However gratifying or dispiriting the possibility of winning or losing might be to partisans on both sides, this campaign has struggled, so far at least, to avoid feeling like a bitter anticlimax. 
But maybe we should all take another look, because 2012 is shaping up in many ways to be more important to the direction of the country than 2008 was.
Unlike the last race, when both candidates competed for the center and the differences between the parties often seemed bridgeable, this campaign is asking voters to choose between starkly different paths.
Will the Keynesian principles that have guided economic policy for generations be affirmed or replaced by a belief that smaller government will make room for a more vibrant private sector?
Should Social Security, under pressure from the ever-growing costs of an aging population, remain a government-run, taxpayer-financed, guaranteed-benefit program? Or should it be reinvented to allow workers to invest in, and assume some of the risk for, their own retirements?
Is it necessary for government to reshape the private health care system in order to bring insurance coverage to those who do not have it, or can tax incentives and other free-market principles take care of the problem?
Are banks and investment firms being stifled by over-regulation as they try to finance economic growth, or are they irresponsibly reverting back to the casino-like culture that brought us the last financial crisis?
Are we heating our planet at a rate that demands substantial and immediate changes in the way we use energy, or is the evidence still insufficient to require that we assume the costs of altering the way we live?
The list goes on, amounting to a huge ideological front in the combat over a long series of issues. And on many of those issues, time is fast running out for the nation to make up its mind about how to proceed, giving additional urgency to outcome this time around.
Republicans who believe that Democrats drove the United States perilously leftward during the first two years of the Obama presidency are increasingly adopting a winner-take-all attitude; they seek a mandate not to lead the nation back to a comprising center but to govern on their terms. Democrats increasingly see the stakes as encompassing not just the achievements of the Obama presidency but also the foundations of the social welfare system.
''In the broad sweep of history, 2008 will probably rank as more significant for all the obvious reasons,'' said Matt Bennett, a co-founder of Third Way, a centrist Democratic advocacy group. ''But in terms of the immediate impact on how the country is governed, 2012 will be more significant.''
Close presidential campaigns often produce hyperventilation about the stakes, if only as a way for candidates to stoke their respective bases. Throughout their long primary campaign, Mitt Romney and the other Republican candidates regularly cast this election as the most important in our lifetime or in generations.
But this time, many conservatives say, they really believe it. Not since at least 1980, when Ronald Reagan ran to move the center of political gravity rightward, have conservatives been so convinced that the soul of the country is at stake. In their view, President Obama duped the country four years ago into believing he would govern from the center and then showed himself to be a determined leftist whose policies must be reversed.
''American politics sees this kind of dynamic happen every few generations, and it seems to sneak up on us,'' said Anthony R. Dolan, who was Reagan's chief speechwriter and served as an adviser this political season to Newt Gingrich. ''A president governs in an unexpected manner, and it becomes a defining moment in our political history.''
The stakes for conservatives this year could be greater than in 1980, Mr. Dolan said, if only because much of the case against President Jimmy Carter back then was about competence, whereas with Mr. Obama the case is about fundamental philosophy.
''He's decided he's going to start a mission to change America and its bourgeois consciousness,'' Mr. Dolan said of Mr. Obama.
Democrats have been slower to cast the election in terms of political apocalypse, but they too are coming around. They are trying to tie Mr. Romney to the conservative positions of the House Republicans - and Mr. Romney has helped them, especially with his endorsement of the budget-cutting plan being promoted by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
''If you take Romney at his word, he's embraced the Ryan plan, which would reduce domestic discretionary spending by something like 60 percent over 10 years and represent a fundamental change not only to Medicare but to the entire domestic side of the government contract,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''We would have a totally different government.''
Are you starting to feel some tingling?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald Reagan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); TAX LAW (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); AGING TRENDS (64%); AGING (64%); HEALTH CARE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



386 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CAMPAIGN STOPS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: How Racist Are We? Ask Google

BYLINE: By SETH STEPHENS-DAVIDOWITZ. 
Seth Stephens- Davidowitz is a doctoral candidate in economics at Harvard.

 BODY:
Barack Obama won 52.9 percent of the popular vote in 2008 and 365 electoral votes, 95 more than he needed. Many naturally concluded that prejudice was not a major factor against a black presidential candidate in modern America. My research, a comparison of Americans' Google searches and their voting patterns, found otherwise. If my results are correct, racial animus cost Mr. Obama many more votes than we may have realized.
Quantifying the effects of racial prejudice on voting is notoriously problematic. Few people admit bias in surveys. So I used a new tool, Google Insights, which tells researchers how often words are searched in different parts of the United States. 
Can we really quantify racial prejudice in different parts of the country based solely on how often certain words are used on Google? Not perfectly, but remarkably well. Google, aggregating information from billions of searches, has an uncanny ability to reveal meaningful social patterns. ''God'' is Googled more often in the Bible Belt, ''Lakers'' in Los Angeles.
The conditions under which people use Google -- online, most likely alone, not participating in an official survey -- are ideal for capturing what they are really thinking and feeling. You may have typed things into Google that you would hesitate to admit in polite company. I certainly have. The majority of Americans have as well: we Google the word ''porn'' more often than the word ''weather.''
And many Americans use Google to find racially charged material. I performed the somewhat unpleasant task of ranking states and media markets in the United States based on the proportion of their Google searches that included the word ''nigger(s).'' This word was included in roughly the same number of Google searches as terms like ''Lakers,'' ''Daily Show,'' ''migraine'' and ''economist.''
A huge proportion of the searches I looked at were for jokes about African-Americans. (I did not include searches that included the word ''nigga'' because these searches were mostly for rap lyrics.) I used data from 2004 to 2007 because I wanted a measure not directly influenced by feelings toward Mr. Obama. From 2008 onward, ''Obama'' is a prevalent term in racially charged searches.
The state with the highest racially charged search rate in the country was West Virginia. Other areas with high percentages included western Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, upstate New York and southern Mississippi.
Once I figured out which parts of the country had the highest racially charged search rates, I could test whether Mr. Obama underperformed in these areas. I predicted how many votes Mr. Obama should have received based on how many votes John Kerry received in 2004 plus the average gain achieved by other 2008 Democratic Congressional candidates. The results were striking: The higher the racially charged search rate in an area, the worse Mr. Obama did.
Consider two media markets, Denver and Wheeling (which is a market evenly split between Ohio and West Virginia). Mr. Kerry received roughly 50 percent of the votes in both markets. Based on the large gains for Democrats in 2008, Mr. Obama should have received about 57 percent of votes in both Denver and Wheeling. Denver and Wheeling, though, exhibit different racial attitudes. Denver had the fourth lowest racially charged search rate in the country. Mr. Obama won 57 percent of the vote there, just as predicted. Wheeling had the seventh highest racially charged search rate in the country. Mr. Obama won less than 48 percent of the Wheeling vote.
Add up the totals throughout the country, and racial animus cost Mr. Obama three to five percentage points of the popular vote. In other words, racial prejudice gave John McCain the equivalent of a home-state advantage nationally.
Yes, Mr. Obama also gained some votes because of his race. But in the general election this effect was comparatively minor. The vast majority of voters for whom Mr. Obama's race was a positive were liberal, habitual voters who would have voted for any Democratic presidential candidate. Increased support and turnout from African-Americans added only about one percentage point to Mr. Obama's totals.
If my findings are correct, race could very well prove decisive against Mr. Obama in 2012. Most modern presidential elections are close. Losing even two percentage points lowers the probability of a candidate's winning the popular vote by a third. And prejudice could cost Mr. Obama crucial states like Ohio, Florida and even Pennsylvania.
There is the possibility, of course, that racial prejudice will play a smaller role in 2012 than it did in 2008, now that the country is familiar with a black president. Some recent events, though, suggest otherwise. I mentioned earlier that the rate of racially charged searches in West Virginia was No. 1 in the country and that the state showed a strong aversion to Mr. Obama in 2008. It recently held its Democratic presidential primary, in which Mr. Obama was challenged by a convicted felon. The felon, who is white, won 41 percent of the vote.
In 2008, Mr. Obama rode an unusually strong tail wind. The economy was collapsing. The Iraq war was unpopular. Republicans took most of the blame. He was able to overcome the major obstacle of continuing racial prejudice in the United States. In 2012, the tail wind is gone; the obstacle likely remains.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Despite winning the election in 2008, President Obama may have lost more votes to prejudice than we realize. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Racially Charged Web Searches and Voting: In 2008, Barack Obama performed much worse than expected in areas with the greatest frequency of racially charged Google searches. The analysis looked at Web searches in 200 United States media markets. (Source: ''The Effects of Racial Animus on Voting: Evidence Using Google Search Data,'' Seth Stephens-Davidowitz)
 GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); RELIGION (68%); RAP MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



387 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; DECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Put A Nation on a Diet?

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company last week announced plans to restrict junk food commercials on its television programs aimed at children. A few days before, Mayor Michael Bloomberg took steps to restrict the sale of supersized sugary drinks in New York. But isolated changes may not make a substantial difference at a time when Americans are gaining weight as a nation. Reducing obesity will require a broader shift in the culture.
For decades, people have treated obesity as a personal failure. They blame individuals and families for eating junk food and choosing television over exercise. But experts in this country and other industrialized nations have increasingly recognized that obesity is caused mostly by social and environmental factors that limit people's ability to eat healthy foods and get enough exercise. Our modern society, with its enormous and diverse food supply and its host of labor-saving technologies, stacks the deck against them. 
The consensus of experts, in a report issued in May by the Institute of Medicine, is that only a nationwide, prevention-oriented approach will work. It won't be easy, but it needs to be done as costs linked to obesity soar ever higher. A responsible estimate cited by the institute indicates that the annual expense of treating obesity-related illness, like Type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer, and the added cost of treating almost any medical condition when the patient is obese, has already reached $190 billion.
Between the early 1970s and 2000, obesity rates, as a percentage of the population, doubled in adults and tripled in children (the extremely obese adult population rose even more sharply). Then the rates more or less plateaued at a disturbingly high level, a trend that has continued with data from a 2009-10 survey. It's not clear whether the leveling off reflects some natural limit to how many people are likely to become obese or is an indication that some efforts to reduce obesity in the past decade are finally showing signs of progress.
Obesity affects the whole nation, cutting across every group and income level. Some racial or ethnic groups, however, are disproportionately obese and need greater attention. It is especially important, some experts say, to start early and reduce obesity among children and adolescents.
The causes of obesity are everywhere. Societal factors play a big role: the lack of safe places to play, walk or bike; sedentary jobs; less time devoted to cooking and more eating out; bigger portion sizes in packaged and prepared food; and incessant marketing of junk foods that are high in calories. Sugar-sweetened drinks accounted for at least 20 percent of the increases in weight in the United States between 1977 and 2007, according to one study cited by the institute.
The institute's report suggests a number of remedies that it believes have been proved to work. In Somerville, Mass., where some 40 percent of the younger elementary school children were overweight, there was a communitywide effort to offer healthier lunches in schools and restaurants, encourage walking and other physical activity, and change the small city's culture. Children there gained less weight than their peers in other communities.
In suggesting reductions in children's exposure to junk-food marketing, the institute cites research showing a causal relationship between TV commercials and the food preferences of the very young. Other ideas are to increase physical activity in the schools to an hour a day and strengthen obesity prevention programs in the workplace.
The institute says that a major cut in obesity rates will require multiple strategies on a population-wide scale. This will be even more challenging than the fight against smoking. But there isn't any choice if we want to protect the public's health, the strength of the economy and the government budget.
PHILIP M. BOFFEY

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: GETTING BIGGER: Since the 1970s, the percentage of Americans who are obese has been rising. Among children, the percentage has more than tripled. (Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.)
Contributing Factors (Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Institute of Medicine
 Kaiser Family Foundation.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DIETING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); YOUTH MARKET (89%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (89%); BARIATRICS (89%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TRENDS (77%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (76%); NUTRITION (76%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (76%); ETHNICITY (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); DIABETES (70%); CANCER (65%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (83%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



388 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.'s Gay Trajectory

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
OVER the past year, the main story line in the push for marriage equality has been the ardor and success with which leading Democratic politicians have taken up the fight. The Democratic governors of New York, Maryland and Washington all promoted and signed same-sex marriage laws, for which President Obama expressed his support last month.
But the progress within Republican ranks has also been pivotal, not to mention fascinating. And a compelling character in that subplot just added a new twist to the narrative, one that suggests the rapidly changing political dynamics of this issue and its potential import to a party dogged by an image of being culturally out of touch.
That character is Paul E. Singer, 67, a billionaire hedge fund manager who is among the most important Republican donors nationwide. In just one Manhattan fund-raiser last month, he helped to collect more than $5 million for Mitt Romney's presidential campaign. 
He steadfastly supports conservative candidates. He also steadfastly supports gay rights in general and marriage equality in particular. Along with a few other leading Wall Street financiers, he contributed and helped drum up the majority of the money -- more than $1 million -- that fueled the campaign for same-sex marriage in New York.
He has given nearly $10 million of his own money to gay-rights initiatives, including the same-sex marriage efforts not only in New York but also in New Hampshire and New Jersey. And that figure doesn't include his assistance in tapping a broad network of donors for individual candidates. He was pivotal in rounding up about $250,000 apiece for the Republican state senators in New York whose votes for same-sex marriage provided its margin of victory in the Legislature.
Now, Singer says, he's providing $1 million to start a new ''super PAC'' with several Republican compatriots. Named American Unity PAC, its sole mission will be to encourage Republican candidates to support same-sex marriage, in part by helping them to feel financially shielded from any blowback from well-funded groups that oppose it.
In an interview on Tuesday, he told me that he's confident that in Congressional races, which would most likely be the super PAC's initial focus, there are more than a few Republicans ''who could be on the verge of support'' or are ''harboring and hiding their views.''
''And this kind of effort could be catalytic in generating some more movement,'' he said.
Singer doesn't court a high news-media profile. His willingness to meet at the Midtown Manhattan offices of his hedge fund, Elliott Management, and talk about marriage equality reflects the strength of his commitment to the cause. Although he is straight, he has a gay son and son-in-law who were married in Massachusetts, which legalized same-sex marriage in 2004.
Our conversation also reflected a growing awareness among prominent Republicans that embracing marriage equality could broaden the party's base and soften the party's image in crucial ways. Many swing voters who find elements of Republicans' limited-government message appealing and have doubts about Obama's economic stewardship are nonetheless given serious pause by the party's stances on abortion, birth control, immigration and homosexuality.
''There's a feeling among some people that the Republican party is harsh on some things,'' acknowledged Singer, whose extended comments can be found in a blog post supplementing this column. Referring to opposition to same-sex marriage, he added: ''Atmospherically and tonally, it's part of the landscape of so-called harshness.''
It also flies in the face of an irrefutable trajectory of increasing support for same-sex marriage among Americans, especially younger ones. In a CNN/ORC International poll released Wednesday, a whopping 73 percent of respondents between the ages of 18 and 34 said they favored marriage equality. That's the clear future of this issue, and Republicans are keenly aware that while the party's formal opposition to abortion rights, for example, doesn't contradict the prevailing sentiments of a majority of Americans or buck voter trends, opposition to same-sex marriage does.
Ken Mehlman, the former Republican National Committee chairman who came out as gay two years ago and has since pressed the case for marriage equality, told me, ''A political party that ignores demography or ignores broader cultural trends does so at its own peril.''
But even apart from that, Mehlman, Singer and many other Republicans say that marriage equality, which in fact gets the government out of the business of controlling and casting judgment on people's private lives, is consistent with conservative principles.
Singer said that it ''very well fits within my framework of freedom,'' adding that it promotes ''family stability'' and is a tribute to an institution in need of one.
''Obviously, the institution of marriage in America has utterly collapsed,'' he said. That gay and lesbian couples nonetheless want to wed ''is kind of a lovely thing and a cool thing and a wonderful thing,'' he added.
The shifting Republican reality was underscored when 119 Republicans joined 92 Democrats in the New Hampshire House of Representatives three months ago in a vote to keep same-sex marriage legal in the state. Just three years ago, when it was legalized, only nine Republicans supported it.
In Massachusetts, Richard Tisei, a gay Congressional candidate who supports marriage equality, was recently anointed one of the National Republican Congressional Committee's ''Young Guns,'' signifying Republican leaders' especially strong investment in his bid.
''I feel comfortable in the party,'' he told me Friday.
Tisei is one type of candidate who might draw financial help from Singer's super PAC, which, according to Singer, will soon have a budget ''of a few million dollars,'' factoring in expected support from collaborators and friends.
Singer said that more than a half-dozen Republicans who back same-sex marriage, who are contemplating it or who seem nudge-able have already attracted the super PAC's attention.
I asked Chad H. Griffin, a progressive Democrat who heads the Human Rights Campaign, a leading advocacy group for gays and lesbians, what he made of Singer's work on marriage equality.
''It's absolutely necessary,'' said Griffin. ''We will never win marriage equality without bipartisan support.''
One Republican who unequivocally opposes marriage equality is the man Singer backs for president: Mitt Romney. Does that trouble Singer?
''I feel very strongly that Obama needs to be fired, and that the Republicans are right on most things,'' he said, adding that with continued work on marriage equality, he expects to persuade more Republicans of its rightness, too.
''I think it would be naive of me to take this issue and just upend everything else I believe,'' he said. ''Because I think we're making progress.''

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); MARRIAGE (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



389 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Europe Needs a German Marshall Plan

BYLINE: By CHARLES S. MAIER. 
A professor of history at Harvard.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
EUROPEAN leaders seemed to understand, at least until recently, that even a partial breakdown of the euro zone would have a devastating economic and political impact on departing countries and on the European Union as a whole. But while they have repeatedly committed to providing emergency aid, they haven't yet accepted that saving the euro is more vital than clinging to the constraining rules that govern the European Central Bank. They are debating their future with a diminished sense of history and of the alternatives available to them. They should recall Secretary of State George C. Marshall's grave warning, upon returning from Germany in early 1947: ''The patient is sinking while the doctors deliberate.''
The former patient is now the principal doctor. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, assures us that the answer to the crisis is ''more Europe'' -- more coordination of policies and more common decision-making. But the question behind the immediate crisis posed by Greek and Spanish debt is how to bring about more Europe. It will not be created simply through the European Union's recent ''fiscal compact'' extracted by Berlin, which provides for automatic but unenforceable fines designed to encourage budget orthodoxy. 
It is time for Germany, once the recipient of aid, to design its current policies with the same sense of urgency and vision that America did after World War II with the Marshall Plan, a farsighted program of assistance for the reconstruction of Europe. The Continent is vastly wealthier today than it was then, but the key issue remains how to overcome economic stagnation without imposing painful austerity that strengthens extremist parties and endangers democratic politics.
Unwinding a decade of profligate borrowing will not be easy. But no one should believe that if Greece and Spain abandon the euro, their economies will float buoyantly upward without wrenching interim misery. Their European neighbors will have to provide assistance whether they are in the euro zone or outside; after all, unemployed Greeks and Spaniards can and will migrate to northern Europe in search of jobs.
Many Germans -- not only bankers and Ms. Merkel's political allies -- have lost patience with the idea of pouring resources into a ''bottomless barrel,'' as they often call Greece. They justifiably ask whether bailing out Greece won't make Spain even more vulnerable and they fret about moral hazard -- rewarding irresponsible behavior and making it more likely to recur. Yes, Spain and Greece indulged in irresponsible borrowing, but it's important to recall that they did so in partnership with French and German banks who were willing lenders. Moreover, Germany has benefited greatly from the euro and the European Union: two-thirds of German trade revenue, and about half of the trade surplus from which Germans derive so much pride, can be attributed to commerce with other members of the European Union.
Countries in a position of leadership must finance and support their distressed neighbors for systemic reasons. or they have no real claim to leadership. In the 1990s, West Germans committed roughly one trillion euros to give their newly reunited countrymen a common standard of welfare. Two decades later, Germans must extend the same sense of obligation to Europe more broadly.
THE Marshall Plan is sometimes seen as an early triumph for ''conditionality'' -- that is, grants dependent on the recipient's cutting domestic public expenses, raising revenues and, often, firing ''redundant'' workers. In fact, the Marshall Plan worked because it indefinitely suspended conditionality while nudging recipients toward eventual reforms.
Postwar American leaders repeatedly postponed austerity requirements when confronted with French and Italian tax evasion and budget deficits. They let Marshall Plan funds cover budgetary deficits, wagering correctly that growth would ultimately wipe out the deficits. Today, rather than conditioning assistance on policies of immediate austerity that will only worsen depression -- the outcome that the architects of the Marshall Plan sought to avoid -- creditor countries like Germany would be wise to tie debt reduction and loan repayment to the resumption of economic growth.
The cautious leaders of the European Central Bank argue that the euro treaties prohibit the bank from buying the debts of member states; likewise, Berlin has resisted issuing any ''Eurobonds'' that the members of the European Union would have a collective duty to repay. But treaties can be loosened as well as tightened; they fit for a while, then must be revised. If European leaders and finance ministers were able in a weekend to agree on a pact that envisaged a punishing commitment to austerity, surely they can also authorize the central bank to buy government bonds directly.
Sober minds among the German opposition understand this. Ms. Merkel seems to comprehend it, but, constrained in part by her own majority's reluctance, she has been moving too slowly to halt the unfolding crisis, hoping that lining up harsher fiscal discipline will stanch the ebbing of confidence. Promise the impossible and supposedly the bond markets should rally. But this is wishful thinking. The history of the last five years has demonstrated that political leaders can't always rely on the market; banks are fair-weather friends -- anxious to lend in good times but in danger of imploding in crises.
Ultimately, the issue is not merely one of economic welfare. For over half a century the progress of the European Union has provided a civic vision comparable to earlier aspirations for national liberation from dictatorships -- whether Nazi or Communist. It managed to move millions of excess farmers off the land into new jobs without their mass defection to xenophobic populist parties. It has led to a huge exchange of young students and workers, reintegrated formerly Communist nations of Eastern Europe and accommodated a united and wealthy Germany without a destructive revival of earlier anxieties. And in the future the European Union is needed for the Continent to remain a significant international actor in a world organized around powerful regional groupings.
Ultimately, the path to ''more Europe'' will require granting the European Parliament a far greater share of control over Europe's public expenditures, even if many European Union experts might be scornful and the British would balk. The European Union's budget today is limited to less than 2 percent of total European G.D.P., whereas every major European country's budget usually accounts for 40 to 50 percent of national output. Europe's parliament should have the power to decide on the overall amounts to spend on welfare and pensions and support of the unemployed. Then European social preferences can be debated the way they are within every nation, through European-wide parties and parliamentary elections that will take on real significance. If German policies prevail, they will seem less coercive, and the national populist parties that have emerged with disturbing strength will be compelled to debate ordinary politics rather than demonize immigrants.
Ms. Merkel is right; Europe must press forward, and Germany is today the country on whose farsightedness the European project hinges. Chancellor Helmut Kohl proved an unlikely visionary in 1989-90 when he urged both German unification and an enhanced European Union. The need for decisive policies has come again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 1950 poster celebrating economic recovery in Europe under the Marshall Plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY E. SPRECKMEESTER/EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAMME, VIA SWIM INK 2, LLC/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); WORLD WAR II (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (90%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



390 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Politico to Expand Its Subscription Service

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY


HIGHLIGHT: Politico will start to hire more journalists this week in an effort to increase its coverage on the economy and the military. 

 BODY:
Just as print publications across North America are cutting newsroom staff and daily publication schedules, Politico is expanding.
This week, the news outlet is starting to hire 20 more reporters and editors to help increase its coverage on the economy and military. Jim VandeHei, executive editor of Politico, said these journalists were being hired to expand its expensive subscription service, Politico Pro, which is often bought by lobbyists and trade associations. Politico is also adding 20 more employees to its business side. He wants to have this staff in place by September, well before the election and the lame-duck session of Congress.
"We feel this sense of urgency to get it in the marketplace," he said of the expanded coverage.
But Mr. VandeHei said that while he had been steadily expanding Politico in recent years, he had not been overwhelmed with rsums from legions of unemployed journalists. That's because so many other publications in the Washington area, like The National Journal and Bloomberg, have also been hiring.
"The thing about the Washington journalism market that's different from the rest of the country is that it's a pretty robust market," Mr. VandeHei said. "We've been hiring in the last three or four years. It's not like tons of people are running around Washington looking for work."
News organizations in Washington also seem to benefit from the high price readers are willing to pay for content. A five-person subscription to Politico Pro costs $8,500. While Mr. VandeHei would not discuss Politico's revenue, he said that its latest hiring came after an expansion of its coverage into energy, technology, transportation and health care.
"There's a huge hunger for information," Mr. VandeHei said. "There's just a large number of people who do stuff professionally who need that information."
Politico has also been increasing its presence in Manhattan. In January, 4,000 copies of the daily newspaper started appearing on newsstands and were sent in bulk to Wall Street firms and Madison Avenue advertising companies. Mr. VandeHei said that Politico placed two dozen vending boxes around Manhattan so New Yorkers could pick up free copies. But he emphasized that these moves enhanced Politico's broader reputation.
"The distribution there is just to raise our profile," he said. "People I think get a kick out of it. They'll take a picture of one of the boxes on Wall Street."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); LOBBYING (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); NEWSSTANDS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%) VandeHei, Jim; Hiring and Promotion; News and News Media; Politico, The; New Media; Newspapers

ORGANIZATION: Politico, The

PERSON: VandeHei, Jim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



391 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Conflicts Endanger Reform in Myanmar

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: It's a sad and nasty problem that's playing out in western Myanmar, a dispute that has turned violent in recent days and perhaps even threatens to derail the country's fragile attempts at democratic reform. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - It's a sad and nasty problem that's playing out in western Myanmar, a dispute that has turned violent in recent days and perhaps even threatens to derail the country's fragile attempts at democratic reform.
Riots broke out on Friday, with angry Muslim protesters burning hundreds of shops and houses in Rakhine State. Seven people were reported killed. The official state newspaper, The New Light of Myanmar, said more than 1,000 "terrorists" had rioted until a military curfew - colloquially and widely known as a Section 144 - restored order. 
At first glance, the conflict appears to be largely sectarian, with a beleaguered Muslim minority, mostly from the Rohingya ethnic group, lashing out at decades at official discrimination and daily humiliations in the overwhelmingly Buddhist nation formerly known as Burma. 
There are ethnic, nativist and security angles to the conflict, too, and the implications for pro-democracy reforms in Myanmar could be dramatic. Some see the future of a democratic Myanmar fully entwined with the resolution of ongoing conflicts between the government and any number of restive ethnic groups, including the Rohingya.
Burma Independence Advocates, an advocacy group based in London, said Sunday that if the violent disturbances continue"the current process of liberalization and a gradual transition to democracy will be disrupted and the military rule will return." 
"This sectarian violence and racial riots could spread not only to the entirety of Burma but across the region, which will threaten the regional stability," the group said. "More importantly, these conflicts could provoke the Islamist terrorists to re-energize their actions."
The pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has not yet spoken specifically or publicly about the human rights abuses suffered by the Rohingya. But their despair, poverty and statelessness are well-known, and they have been chillingly reported and photographed. 
The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, an independent federal body, said in its most recent report that Muslims in Rakhine State, particularly the Rohingya, "experience the most severe forms of legal, economic, religious, educational, and social discrimination." 
"The Rohingya inhabit the worst position," said one activist, "in Burma's dreadful human rights landscape."
There are about 750,000 Rohingya in Myanmar with some 200,000 in Bangladesh, including 30,000 in camps and settlements near Cox's Bazar.
In 2009 I wrote about the camp, a place of unspeakable squalor and despair.
"The worst conditions you could imagine anywhere on earth," said a veteran international aid worker. "Total despair," said another. 
There's no water, power or sanitation. No music. Men find occasional stoop-labor jobs carrying bricks or making salt. Ramshackle huts are made of leaves and branches. These are the luxuries in the camp: a packet of cookies, a crayon, a new battery for an old radio, a small breeze on a sweltering night. 
Another one million Rohingya are scattered about the world - there has been a major diaspora from South Asia in recent decades - and they have flung themselves from Saudi Arabia to Pakistan to Thailand to Indonesia. The men lay asphalt and pour cement in Riyadh. They haul fishing nets in the Andaman Sea. They pull rickshaws in Jakarta. The children, with their small hands, peel shrimp and weave carpets in Karachi.
Some of the more extreme views of the currently flaring troubles in Myanmar are from nationalist groups that suggest the Rohingya protesters are part of an organized Muslim insurgency inside Myanmar, a movement that also supplies weapons and recruits for Islamist terror cells elsewhere in Southeast Asia. 
The demonstrators are "allegedly linked with Islamist terrorists around the world including Taliban," said one group, Burma Democratic Concern, suggesting that the protesters have organized "with the support of the global networks of extremist Islamic terrorists." 
Burma Democratic Concern also says the dispute is an immigration crisis, with wandering Rohingya (locally referred to as Bengalis or sometimes by the slur "kular") having illegally entered Myanmar from Bangladesh. Part of the solution, the Burmese group recommends, is building a "concrete fence/wall along the Burma-Bangladesh border for which all the Burmese should contribute special tax as part of the solution."
David Scott Mathieson, senior researcher on Burma for Human Rights Watch, wrote a useful history of the Rohingya issue in 2009. The title of the report, tellingly, is "Plight of the Damned." 
Hundreds of thousands of South Asians were expelled from Burma in the 1960s in an ultra-nationalistic drive "similar to the treatment Idi Amin meted out to Asians in Uganda a few years later," Mr. Mathieson said. "Successive military governments have harbored a uniquely vicious aversion to the Rohingya."
Meanwhile, Phil Robertson, deputy director of Human Rights Watch Asia, like many regional analysts, is closely following any changes in government policies toward the Rohingya and other minorities. 
As Mr. Robertson asked in a recent story in The Irrawaddy: "Is there a place for the Rohingya in Burma?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); RIOTS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TALIBAN (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); RACE & RACISM (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); CURFEW (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); IMMIGRATION (62%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%) Aung San Suu Kyi; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Discrimination; Human Rights and Human Rights Violations; Immigration and Emigration; Muslims and Islam; Rohingya (Ethnic Group); Terrorism; Taliban; Bangladesh; Cox's Bazar (Bangladesh); Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Myanmar; Thailand; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (78%) Aung San Suu Kyi

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MYANMAR (99%); BANGLADESH (94%); ASIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bangladesh; Cox's Bazar (Bangladesh); Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Myanmar; Thailand

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



392 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Obama Super PAC Up With New Bain Attack

BYLINE: GERRY MULLANY


HIGHLIGHT: Obama's allies return to a previous theme in a new ad about Mitt Romney's ties to Bain. 

 BODY:
Priorities USA Action, the pro-Obama "super PAC," is up with a new anti-Mitt Romney advertisement that takes aim at Bain Capital's stewardship of a steel mill whose closing led to the loss of hundreds of jobs.
In the ad, a former worker, Donnie Box, stands outside the plant and says, "Romney and Bain Capital shut this place down." He adds, "They promised us health care packages, they promised to maintain our retirement program. And those are the first two things -- disappeared."
The ad is not the first to focus on Bain's takeover of the plant, which was operated by GST Steel in Kansas City, Mo. In May, the super PAC released a similar commercial featuring a different worker and the same news clips about the plant's closing.
President Obama and his allies have been criticized for their focus on Mr. Romney's leadership at Bain Capital, and over the last month the campaign has tried other avenues of attack, including going after Mr. Romney's jobs record when he was governor of Massachusetts.
In response the the new ad, Andrea Saul of the Romney campaign released the following statement:
"Another day, another misleading attack from President Obama's allies. President Obama thinks the economy is 'doing fine,' in spite of the fact that 23 million Americans are struggling for work, incomes have fallen and America is drowning in debt. President Obama's own supporters - even former President Clinton - have criticized these distorted attacks on free enterprise, calling them 'nauseating' and 'unfair.' Unlike President Obama, Mitt Romney has the record and pro-growth plan to fix the economy and get our country back on the right track."
Under Mr. Romney, Bain acquired a majority stake in the company and its debt load grew. A Reuters report said Bain made $12 million off its initial $8 million investment in the company and at least $4.5 million in consulting fees, and that the federal government had to bail out its underfunded pension plan. By the time the plant closed in 2001, eliminating 750 jobs, Mr. Romney was no longer with Bain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); CAUCUSES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Political Action Committees; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; Priorities USA Action; Kansas City (Kan); Ad Watch; The Caucus

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital; Priorities USA Action

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Kansas City (Kan)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012



393 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Seeks to Move on After Tough Week

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: All presidential campaigns have bad weeks, and when they come in early June, it is hardly a disaster. But it is also important for campaigns to clean things up after they have gotten a bit messy. 

 BODY:
FUND-RAISING Last week, Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, tried to use the bad news about the money wars. "We got beat!" he wrote in an e-mail to supporters afterMitt Romney raised almost $17 million more than Mr. Obama in May.
If that reverse psychology works, June could be a better month.
For most of the past year, liberals had assumed that Mr. Obama would outraise the Republican candidate, a blas attitude that may no longer be common among Mr. Obama's most ardent supporters.
Mr. Obama will start this week with another fund-raiser in New York City. The dinner withAnna Wintour, the editor of Vogue magazine, and the actressSarah Jessica Parker is sure to generate plenty of cash, as well as headlines good and bad.
COUNTERPUNCH It took only a few hours after the news conference on Friday for Mr. Obama's campaign to return to the offensive, and it is likely to continue attacking this week as the president travels to Maryland, Pennsylvania and Ohio to try to to regain momentum.
Campaigning in Iowa on Friday, Mr. Romney mocked Mr. Obama's assertion that more federal money should be spent to help states pay for teachers, firefighters and police officers. Mr. Obama's campaign quickly pounced, accusing him of not supporting those professions.
Campaign surrogates took to Twitter, blogs, cable TV and newspapers, seeing an opportunity to raise questions about Mr. Romney. It was part of an effort to deflect attention from Mr. Obama's assertion at the news conference - later reversed - that the "private economy is doing fine." That message continued on Sunday.
"He said we don't need any more teachers,"David Axelrod, the president's senior campaign adviser, said of Mr. Romney on CNN's "State of the Union" on Sunday. "We don't need any more teachers?"
He continued, "What planet is he living on where he thinks we can take these kinds of hits in our education system and move on as a country?"
CHANGE OF SUBJECT One of the best ways to recover from a bad week is to talk about something else, and for that, there is no better job in the world than to be president of the United States.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will present the Presidential Medal of Freedom toShimon Peres, the president of Israel, at a dinner at the White House.
The next day, he will travel to New York City for a visit to ground zero. It is designed to coincide with a milestone in the construction of One World Trade Center, a "topping off" ceremony that will commemorate the completion of the framework. But it will also provide a way to shift coverage toward a different and safer conversation.
THE UNKNOWN Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign was particularly good at deftly reacting to events; his handling of the economy's collapse in September of that year may have cemented his election. There is no reason to think that his current campaign will not be just as effective in that area.
What will the president have to confront in the coming week? Europe's leaders will be grappling with the debt crises in Greece, Italy and Spain. The investigation into national security leaks may pick up steam. The situation in Syria could turn even worse.
How the president handles those events - and others that might arise - could help redirect his campaign, for better or for worse.

        
The Caucus Click: The Week in Pictures
        
Celebratory Air at Obama Event for Gay Rights Supporters
        
New Ad Attacks Obama on Federal Debt
        
June Brings Harbingers for the Fall
        
Romney Campaigns at Failed Solyndra Factory

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (66%) barack obama; Presidential Election of 2012; Axelrod, David; Obama, Barack; Elections

COMPANY: VOGUE MAGAZINE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); JIM MESSINA (73%) Axelrod, David; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



394 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Banks Borrowing To Stay Ahead of the Tide

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Nelson D. Schwartz contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
LONDON -- As Europe works to prop up Spain's wobbling banks, its leaders still face a problem that plagues the Continent's increasingly vulnerable financial institutions -- a longstanding addiction to the borrowed money that provides the day-to-day financing they need to survive.
The weakness afflicts banking systems including that of Italy, whose fragile economy is even bigger than Spain's and whose banks also rely heavily on borrowed money to get by. In Spain's case, the flight of foreign money to safer harbors, combined with a portfolio of real estate loans that has deteriorated along with the economy, led to the collapse of Bankia, the mortgage lender whose failure set in motion the country's current banking crisis.
Europe hopes that this latest bailout -- worth up to 100 billion euros that will be distributed to Spain's weakest banks via the government in the form of loans, adding to their long-term debt -- can resolve the problem. 
Financial markets were once again on edge, with analysts cautiously welcoming the stopgap development, while leery about whether the bailout would hurt or help Spain's borrowing costs and whether the coming Greek elections would inflame the markets. In Japan and Hong Kong, markets were up around 2 percent early Monday.
''It's another step in a long process,'' Charles Kantor, a portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman in New York, said on Sunday. ''The Spanish banks, like the banks in France and Italy, all need capital.''
''The bigger question is whether Spain itself needs a bailout,'' he added. ''For now, though, the European patchwork approach of dealing with the issues is still working.''
Investors and analysts worry that highly indebted banks in other weak countries like Italy might face constraints similar to those of Spain in the months ahead.
Last month, the ratings agency Moody's Investors Service downgraded the credit standing of 26 Italian banks, including two of the country's largest, UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo. Moody's warned that Italy's most recent economic slump was creating more failed loans and making it very difficult for banks to replenish their coffers through short-term borrowing.
Because they have yet to experience a colossal real estate bust, Italian banks have long been viewed as healthier than their bailed-out counterparts in Ireland and Spain. And bankers in Italy were quick to argue in recent days that Italian banks should not be compared with those of Spain.
But as economic activity throughout the region came to a near halt, especially in perpetually growth-challenged Italy, the worry was that bad loans and a possible flight of deposits from that country would pose a new threat to banks that already were barely getting by on thin cushions of capital.
And Italian banks cannot avoid the stigma of the government's own staggering debt load. Italy's national debt is 120 percent of its gross domestic product, second only to Greece among euro zone countries.
Also hanging over Europe's banks are the losses that would hit them if Greece were to leave the euro currency union, throwing most of their euro-denominated loans into a state of default. Banks in France and Germany would be hurt the most, as they have been longstanding lenders to Greece. In a recent analysis, Eric Dor, an expert in international finance at the Ieseg School of Management in Lille, France, calculated that French banks would lose 20 billion euros, and German banks 4.5 billion euros.
Credit Agricole, for example, via its Greek subsidiary, has about 23 billion euros in Greek loans on its books. If Greece were to leave the euro, the losses could exceed 6 billion euros, analysts estimate.
Because it was the financial excesses of banks in Ireland, and now Spain, that forced their home countries to eventually seek bailouts, finding a Europewide solution to overseeing financial institutions has become a pressing priority for the euro zone's leadership. Otherwise, Europe would be able to address the weaknesses of member country banks only when the time came to rescue them. The recent belabored negotiations by Brussels, Madrid and Frankfurt over how much help to give Spain and how to do it illustrated just how slow and difficult it would be to move toward a common European bank oversight system.
But as the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, said on Friday in a speech in New York, there is little time to waste in this regard.
''European banks are at the epicenter of our current worries and naturally should be the priority for repair,'' she said.
Ms. Lagarde, who from her earliest days at the fund has focused on banking problems in Europe, left little doubt how the issue should be addressed.
''Let me be clear,'' she said in her speech. ''The heart of European bank repair lies in Europe. That means more Europe, not less. Less Europe will be bad for the Continent and bad for the world. So, policy makers in Europe need to take further action now to put the monetary union on a sounder footing.''
At the root of the issue is a simple fact: just like the countries in which they operate, most European banks are highly leveraged entities. They are heavily dependent on borrowed money to operate day to day, whether making loans or paying interest to depositors.
For decades, the loans that European banks made to individuals, corporations and their own spendthrift governments far exceeded the deposits they were able to collect -- the money that typically serves as a bank's main source of ready funds. To plug this funding gap, which analysts estimate to be about 1.3 trillion euros, European banks borrowed heavily from foreign banks and money market funds. That is why European banks have an average loan-to-deposit ratio exceeding 110 percent -- meaning that on any given day, they owe more money than they have on hand.
In Spain, the problem has been even more acute. Bankia, before it failed, had a loan-to-deposit ratio of 160 percent, one of the highest in Europe. Even the strongest banks in the country, like Santander, the global banking giant, have a fairly risky ratio of 115 percent, while big Italian banks like UniCredit rely on bulk borrowing to a similar or higher degree.
In the United States, the comparable figure is about 78 percent, which means the biggest American banks have a surplus of deposits and extra cash that they must put to work. (That can pose its own perils, as JPMorgan Chase recently demonstrated with its disastrous trading bets built on excess deposits and hedges against losses.)
Of late, Europe's bank funding gap has been filled largely by the European Central Bank's temporary program of cheap, three-year loans to European banks.
Italian and Spanish institutions were the most aggressive in lining up at this lending window, and they used much of the cheap financing to buy their own government's bonds. In the long run, that particular form of patriotism is likely to hurt those banks' finances if the value of the bonds continues to decline.
In a recent report on the Italian economy, analysts at Citigroup said they did not expect Italian banks to experience a fate similar to that of their Spanish counterparts anytime soon. But they did highlight disturbing trends in nonperforming loans in Italy, which have doubled since 2008.
And they warned that Italian banks' buying of government bonds made them ever more vulnerable to the staggering debt of the government in Rome.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of France's biggest banks, Credit Agricole, could face heavy losses in Greece, analysts said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BALINT PORNECZI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); EURO (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SPAIN (98%); ITALY (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



395 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: An Expansion at Politico

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Just as print publications across North America are cutting newsroom staff and daily publication schedules, Politico is expanding.
This week, the news outlet is starting to hire 20 more reporters and editors to help increase its coverage on the economy and military. Jim VandeHei, executive editor of Politico, said these journalists were being hired to expand its expensive subscription service, Politico Pro, which is often bought by lobbyists and trade associations. Politico is also adding 20 more employees to its business side. He wants to have this staff in place by September, well before the election and the lame-duck session of Congress. 
''We feel this sense of urgency to get it in the marketplace,'' he said of the expanded coverage.
But Mr. VandeHei said that while he had been steadily expanding Politico in recent years, he had not been overwhelmed with resumes from legions of unemployed journalists. That's because so many other publications in the Washington area, like The National Journal and Bloomberg, have also been hiring.
''The thing about the Washington journalism market that's different from the rest of the country is that it's a pretty robust market,'' Mr. VandeHei said. ''We've been hiring in the last three or four years. It's not like tons of people are running around Washington looking for work.''
News organizations in Washington also seem to benefit from the high price readers are willing to pay for content. A five-person subscription to Politico Pro costs $8,500. While Mr. VandeHei would not discuss Politico's revenue, he said that its latest hiring came after an expansion of its coverage into energy, technology, transportation and health care.
''There's a huge hunger for information,'' Mr. VandeHei said. ''There's just a large number of people who do stuff professionally who need that information.''
Politico has also been increasing its presence in Manhattan. In January, 4,000 copies of the daily newspaper started appearing on newsstands and were sent in bulk to Wall Street firms and Madison Avenue advertising companies. Mr. VandeHei said that Politico placed two dozen vending boxes around Manhattan so New Yorkers could pick up free copies. But he emphasized that these moves enhanced Politico's broader reputation.
''The distribution there is just to raise our profile,'' he said. ''People I think get a kick out of it. They'll take a picture of one of the boxes on Wall Street.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim VandeHei 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); WRITERS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); LOBBYING (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); NEWSSTANDS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



396 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Selling Abroad, China Eases Slump at Home

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- With China's domestic economy stumbling badly this spring as construction and retail sales slow, this country is unleashing a fresh surge of exports that is preserving millions of jobs in Chinese factories but could fan trade tensions with the West.
China's General Administration of Customs announced on Sunday that exports had surged 15.3 percent in May from a year earlier, twice as fast as economists had expected and vaulting May past last December as the biggest month ever for Chinese exports. China's trade surplus has expanded in each of the last three months.
As indebted European economies slip into recession and unemployment inches back up in the United States, Chinese factories are outcompeting rivals in developing countries and the West to claim larger market shares even as global demand is barely rising.
''Our sales have picked up significantly and we're now overbooked,'' said Roger Lee, chief executive of the TAL Group in Hong Kong, one of the biggest suppliers of high-end dress shirts to department stores and luxury brands in the United States. 
China's renewed success relies heavily on the American market, with Chinese exports to the United States soaring 23 percent in May from a year earlier, the data on Sunday showed. Chinese exports to the European Union rose only 3.2 percent.
But resurgent Chinese exports also have the potential to become a political issue in the American elections in November. Mitt Romney, who has clinched the Republican nomination for president, has already promised in campaign ads to stand up to China more vigorously on currency issues. President Obama has set up an interagency group to investigate trade law violations, particularly by China.
Underpinning China's export success is a combination of long-term investments in automation and short-term depreciation of the currency.
Manufacturers across China are investing in labor-saving equipment, reorganizing shop floor management and taking other measures to control labor costs, which have been rising steeply as the country grows in prosperity.
Here in southern China, a manufacturer of home saunas has installed a $25,000 computer-controlled drill that does the work of up to eight people. A garment company in Wenxi, in eastern China, is buying machinery to manufacture buttons more cheaply. And a printer in Wuhan, in central China, is fully automating paper cutting and plans further investments in printing and binding, so that workers will only be required to package the finished product.
''We are investing in additional machinery so as to improve productivity,'' said Jessica Meng, the sales director at the printer, Maxleaf Stationery. ''Labor costs are too high these days.''
The move to automation, consistent across many industries, is a central reason that Chinese imports in the United States are becoming cheaper. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the United States show that average prices for goods imported from China edged down in April for the first time in almost two years, despite double-digit increases in labor costs.
Rising Chinese labor costs have not yet meant relief for China's rivals in other developing countries, Japan and the West, partly because automation is offsetting an erosion in Chinese competitiveness.
Beijing officials have strongly endorsed stepped-up equipment investments by exporters. Labor shortages in export zones have meant that workers have not tended to protest the introduction of more machinery.
As the domestic Chinese economy slows, the government is also counteracting some of the pain by taking currency actions to help exporters. The Chinese government allowed the country's tightly managed currency, the renminbi, to fall nearly 1 percent against the dollar last month, its largest drop since Beijing officials unpegged the currency from the dollar in July 2005. A weaker renminbi makes Chinese goods less expensive in foreign markets, and makes imports less affordable in China.
The competitive advantage for Chinese exporters is amplified by a fundamental shift in inflation. For years, producer prices in China were rising faster than producer prices in the United States. As a result, the inflation-adjusted exchange rate of the renminbi to the dollar was rising even faster -- it was up 40 percent since 2005, according to a Treasury report last month.
But producer prices in China have been falling this year. They were down 1.7 percent in May from a year earlier, as the popping of China's real estate bubble over the past year depressed demand for steel, cement and other materials. Producer prices have kept rising in the United States, so the inflation-adjusted exchange rate has moved about 2 percent in favor of China's exporters this year.
At the same time, weakness in China's domestic economy has resulted in more workers seeking jobs in export factories.
''It is easier to find workers this year, much easier,'' said James Jian, the general manager of Hongyuan Furniture here, a 200-employee manufacturer of home saunas that use infrared lights instead of hot rocks. Demand for the saunas, which cost $1,500 to $4,000, is particularly strong from affluent households in the United States, he added.
Chinese officials have also urged the country's state-owned banks to lend more to small and medium-size manufacturers, many of which are exporters. The country's 70 financial institutions, all state controlled, have been lending heavily to state-owned enterprises; some are exporters, but many are engaged more in domestic activities like real estate development and infrastructure.
In antisubsidy trade cases, however, the United States Commerce Department typically regards loans from state-owned banks as carrying subsidized interest rates. Loans are widely issued at fairly low interest rates through a system that allocates credit based partly on the Five-Year Plan and other national policies, as opposed to who can pay the highest risk-adjusted interest rate.
The strong Chinese exports in May came after a much weaker month in April, when shipments to Europe actually shrank. But American demand for Chinese goods has been consistently strong.
May had an extra workday this year and April had one fewer day because of the timing of Chinese holidays. But this has a limited effect on exports because manufacturers schedule enough shifts to meet demand.
The biggest question mark is the extent to which manufacturers can continue to offset rising labor costs with investments in automation and the reorganization of often-inefficient work practices.
China's current Five-Year Plan calls for industrial wages to rise 13 percent a year through 2015, and some cities have been raising their minimum wages even faster. Mr. Lee of the TAL Group said that his company's labor costs were already rising at least 15 percent a year. By contrast, productivity per worker is rising only half as fast as wages, he said, as the manufacture of woven shirts is hard to automate.
The TAL Group has found some efficiencies through reorganizing its employees into smaller work teams. If Foxconn, which makes iPhones and other electronic products for Apple and many other manufacturers, fully carries out all of the pay and overtime policy changes that it announced in February, then its labor costs per worker could rise as much as 40 percent, Mr. Lee said, adding that this would put heavy pressure on other manufacturers like TAL to raise wages even faster.
Many mainland Chinese and Hong Kong companies have started diversifying production by opening factories in Southeast Asia, where wages are now lower than in China. The TAL Group has diversified by setting up operations in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam.
But many other Chinese companies compare Southeast Asia's infrastructure and bureaucracies unfavorably to China's and are staying close to home.
Hongyuan has just faced a choice of whether to send senior managers late this summer to a conference in Vietnam promoting factory investments there or to a trade fair in Las Vegas, said Rachel Wang, the sales manager.
After deciding that China was still a competitive base for exports, through use of equipment like the computer-controlled drill, and that the United States would keep importing, the company chose Las Vegas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hongyuan Furniture in Guangzhou has found especially strong demand for its saunas in the United States. (B1)
 The Hongyuan Furniture factory. Weakness in the domestic economy has led Chinese to look for jobs at export businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FORBES CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); FASTENER & PIN MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (69%); SALES MANAGEMENT (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (89%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (89%); EAST CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



397 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.08 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.14 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.04 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida Department of Environmental Protection, $160.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Ohio, $210.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Onondaga County, N.Y., $51.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
THURSDAY
Olympia, Wash., School District, $72.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alabama Black Belt Energy Gas District, $773.8 million of gas project revenue. Goldman Sachs.
American Municipal Power, Ohio, $539 million of multistate gas project revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Connecticut, $518 million of general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Detroit, $575 million of sewage disposal system revenue and refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, $1.3 million of senior secured bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Henderson, Nev., $67 million of general obligation bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Meridan, Idaho, Joint School District, $80.3 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Seattle-Northwest Securities.
Michigan Finance Authority, $2.7 billion of unemployment obligation assessment revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Monroe County, N.Y., Industrial Development Agency, $123 million of school facility revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
New Jersey Institute of Technology, $56 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
New York Dormitory Authority, $1.8 billion of personal income tax revenue refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Norfolk, Va., $118.3 million of general obligation bonds. Raymond James.
North Carolina Medical Care Commission, $300 million of health care facilities revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Pennsylvania, $162 million of medical center general obligation bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
Richmond, Va., $100.2 million of taxable general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Scottsdale, Ariz., $83 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Socorro, Tex., Independent School District, $147 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Raymond James.
St. Louis, $65 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. Stifel Nicolaus.
West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission, $126 million of revenue refinancing higher education bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); SCHOOL BONDS (88%); HEALTH CARE (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); INCOME TAX (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); SEATTLE-NORTHWEST SECURITIES CORP (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



398 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Backtracking on Florida Exams Flunked by Many, Even an Educator

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
SANFORD, Fla. -- Bill Vogel, the superintendent of schools in this suburb of Orlando, has always been vigilant about preparing his district for the state tests.
All students take practice tests in math, reading and writing in September and December. Heather Flay's fourth graders at Crystal Lake Elementary keep folders with their test results so they can chart which scores need improving.
''We have them show their folders to their parents,'' Ms. Flay said. ''They'll say, 'This is what my scores were in third grade, this is where I was in September and this is what I'm shooting for.' ''
Terri Ganey, an English teacher here at Seminole High, spends several days having her students analyze the Florida Department of Education's samples of graded essays so they understand what it takes to earn a top score of 6 -- or a 5 or 4. ''We dissect the state's scoring rubric, level by level,'' Ms. Ganey said. ''We even look at the lowest levels, so they see this is why it was a 1 or 2, what was missing.'' 
The extensive test preparation has paid off. In 2011, among the state's 67 districts, Seminole (which serves 64,000 students, half of whom qualify for federally subsidized lunches) ranked third in math, fourth in reading and sixth in writing.
Then, last month, the state dropped a bomb. The 2012 scores on the writing test -- given to 4th, 8th and 10th graders -- plummeted in all districts. Only 27 percent of Florida's fourth graders were rated proficient, compared with 81 percent the year before. In Seminole, 30 percent were proficient, down from 83 percent.
Something snapped in Dr. Vogel. ''We've all worked so hard to make sure the state testing system is credible and meaningful, but we've reached the tipping point,'' he said. ''The whole system needs to be readdressed.''
The numbers fell so drastically because, as announced last summer, state officials toughened the standards, paying more attention to grammar and spelling as well as to the factual accuracy of supporting details in essays.
But they did not change the scoring system, resulting in a public relations disaster.
What to do?
They could live with the results -- that after 15 years of education reform, three-fourths of Florida children could not write. Or they could scale the results upward after the fact, an embarrassment, but people probably would not be so angry if they had good scores.
The high failure rate was based on measuring proficiency as a score of at least 4.
First, the state considered lowering the cutoff to 3.5.
That would have resulted in a passage rate of about 50 percent. People would probably still be angry.
So on May 15, Florida's education commissioner, Gerard Robinson, held an emergency conference call with State Education Board members, while 800 school administrators from all over Florida listened in. The board voted to lower the cutoff to 3.
Presto! Problem solved. The proficiency rate for fourth graders was now exactly what it had been in the 2010-11 school year, 81 percent.
For 10th graders, the results actually improved, to 84 percent from 80 percent, meaning scores plummeted but proficiency increased.
For those like Dr. Vogel who think proficiency should reflect the mastery of a specific set of skills rather than the score that pops up after state officials wiggle things around, this was distressing. ''Making an arbitrary change without finding out what happened could result in people losing confidence in accountability,'' he said.
Though this may be the worst breakdown in 15 years of state testing, it does not appear that Florida politicians have any interest in figuring out who was responsible. The commissioner? Department officials? Someone at Pearson, the company that scored the writing tests?
The Buros Center for Testing, the consultant the state pays $100,000 to do annual audits, wrote that there was nothing to worry about, concluding that the scoring ''was in keeping with the best practices of the profession.'' (Imagine what the worst practices are.)
The audit referred to lowering the passing score to 3 as ''equipercentile equating.''
In an e-mail, Jamie Mongiovi, a State Education Department spokeswoman, wrote that no further investigation was planned. She said that selecting the lower score was intended ''to limit the impact'' on schools ''during the implementation year of this change.''
''Each time Florida raises the academic bar, our students have improved their academic performance,'' Ms. Mongiovi wrote. ''The number of schools receiving A grades has increased after an initial dip. Supporting higher standards and achievement is in the best interest of our learners.''
Former Gov. Jeb Bush, who was in office from 1999 to 2007, put into effect what may be the most aggressive testing system in the country, and subsequent administrations have followed his lead. Test scores are used to determine which third graders must be retained and which high school students can graduate. They determine a school's report card grade, from A to F, as well as which teachers and principals will get bonuses and which ones will be fired.
While it is unlikely that there will be significant changes any time soon, there are signs of cracks. Two weeks after the writing results were announced, Broward County, the sixth-biggest school district in the nation, became one of 10 in Florida to pass the National Resolution on High Stakes Testing, calling for a reduced role of standardized tests in public education.
The state superintendents' association is expected to take up the issue this week.
''Problems with the writing test are far and away the worst ever in terms of the impact on the credibility of FCAT'' -- the Florida Comprehensive Achievement Test -- said Bob Schaeffer, the public education director for FairTest, a national antitest group.
Last year, Rick Roach, 63, a member of the Orange County School Board in Orlando, attracted national attention when he took the state's reading competency test, and then admitted to having failed it. Mr. Roach, who has two master's degrees, believes that the test -- which was flunked by about half of high school students -- is a poor measure of a child's reading ability.
He has produced a video that features eight students who failed it, reading aloud flawlessly. ''They can read,'' he said, ''they just can't pass.''
This is the case for Edlexander Rabassa, a sophomore at Colonial High School in Orlando. Last year, as a ninth grader, he earned a score of 3 out of a possible 5 on the A.P. Human Geography exam, qualifying him for college credits.
He had always scored proficient in the state reading tests, which are administered from third to eighth grade.
Yet this year he failed the reading competency exam required to graduate.
Mr. Roach would like to see whether top state officials could pass the test.
In an e-mail, Ms. Mongiovi wrote that she was not aware of any who had taken it, but she did not answer a question about whether they would be willing to.
The results could be entertaining. The week after the writing test mess, the department sent out a media advisory announcing the next round of test scores. It was titled -- and you can't make this stuff up -- ''Department of Eduation to Release Reading and Mathmetics Results.''
This is my last education column. Again. The first time, in the early 1990s, politicians wanted to make our system more like Japan's. (This was right before the Japanese economic collapse.)
A decade later, they devised a system to punish teachers if every child in America wasn't academically proficient. Now they're developing a standardized test to evaluate high school band teachers. And through it all, teachers have continued to educate children, and children have continued to learn.
Come fall, I will start a new assignment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edlexander Rabassa, a high school sophomore in Orlando, Fla., qualified for college credits but failed a reading competency test. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERTO GONZALEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); RANKINGS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



399 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: A Backstage Pass to a High-End Food Festival

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
WHILE affluent connoisseurs sample the offerings this week at the annual Food & Wine Classic in Aspen, Colo., the public will get a look behind the scenes.
The insider's look at the renowned chefs and their doings is not the production of an upscale brand. It is sponsored by Hellmann's mayonnaise, which is beginning its ''Real Tastes Better'' marketing campaign in tandem with the gathering of top chefs.
Nearly two dozen videos from the food festival, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary, will be shown online, in part underscoring Hellmann's pledge to switch to cage-free eggs by 2020. (Hellmann's, a Unilever brand, is made from oil, eggs and vinegar.) 
''It's not just the real ingredients,'' said Brian Orlando, senior marketing director for Hellmann's in the United States, ''it's bringing the real side of an exclusive event to the growing number of food lovers.''
Food & Wine magazine every year turns Aspen into a landscape of tastings and cooking demonstrations, seminars, nonstop parties and elbow-brushing with celebrity chefs like Jacques Pepin and Mario Batali. Tents will hold 300 food sellers, winemakers, craft brewers and spirits distillers for samplings from Friday through Sunday.
All 5,000 tickets to the festival were sold out early this year, which has not happened since the economic downturn took hold in 2008. Participants pay $1,185 a ticket, in addition to travel and hotel expenses.
Hellmann's will be in the mix with Tim Love, a Texas chef who also appeared in the brand's campaign last year. Mr. Love will be cooking at the festival, and hosting and interviewing fellow chefs as they prepare food and later unwind. To attract viewers, Hellmann's plans ''teaser'' videos, Internet banner ads and radio commercials.
Hellmann's, known as Best Foods in the Western states, is also starting an online ''Real Tastes Better'' sweepstakes on Thursday with weekly prizes including tickets to the Food & Wine Classic next year. The contest will be on hellmanns.com until Aug. 20.
The Aspen partnership, with Food & Wine magazine, which is owned by American Express Publishing, is helping reshape Hellmann's century-old brand. Last year, Hellmann's, long a staple American sandwich spread, focused on using the condiment in quickly assembled recipes like Parmesan-crusted chicken.
Hellmann's is addressing consumers' increasing interest in quality ingredients and about where food comes from, whether they are dining out or cooking at home. For example, menu descriptions like ''fresh,'' ''made from scratch'' and ''real'' were overwhelmingly favored by those surveyed in the ''2012 Dining Out Report: A Look Ahead,'' released in March by Mintel, a research firm in Chicago.
Hellmann's chose the festival to link its ingredients to ''a place where real food reigns,'' Mr. Orlando said.
''We want to show that great food is accessible,'' he added. Mr. Love, he said, will show viewers simple shortcuts that professional chefs use, and cook several new dishes using Hellmann's.
''There is an amazing amount of food talent, and content, which we will be able to capture and bring to people who normally can't access it,'' Mr. Orlando said.
Mr. Love, with a video crew, will ask fellow chefs how they define ''real food'' and how they pick their ingredients. He will also discuss their best food memories and their kitchen staples. The crew will follow Mr. Love through a day of his preparations and cooking, including for a charity fund-raising lunch of classic Hellmann's dishes.
There will also be videos, most of which will run about two minutes, of ingredient preparation and kitchen setup, and of events like the red-carpet welcome reception and the late-night dessert party attended by the chefs and sponsored by companies like Lexus, Godiva and Whole Foods.
''This is the first time that people will see so much that goes on behind the scenes,'' said Christina Grdovic, vice president and publisher of the Food & Wine brand. ''The videos will show all the work that goes on behind the scenes, down to the rolling racks of prepared ingredients.''
In addition to posting real-time video content, Hellmann's personnel will also post live updates to Twitter and Facebook and images to Instagram during the festival. Viewers will be able to send Twitter messages and ask Facebook questions and leave comments for their favorite chefs attending the events that will appear at hellmanns.com and Facebook.com/Hellmanns.
Ogilvy Entertainment, a division of Ogilvy & Mather, a unit of the WPP Group, also has created a television spot depicting the loving assembly of a bacon, lettuce and tomato sandwich -- with Hellmann's, of course. The 30-second ''Awakenings'' commercial will be shown on networks and cable stations as well as their Web and mobile outlets.
The Hellmann's campaign includes radio spots, recorded by Mr. Love, for 22 media markets. On-air promotions and disc jockey testimonials will promote the sweepstakes.
Hellmann's did not specify its spending for the campaign, but last year the brand raised its advertising outlay to $39.7 million from $34.6 million in 2010.
''We want to take good food, and show people they can make it the best food,'' Mr. Orlando said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The chef Tim Love during his Grilling Master Class at the 2011 Food & Wine Classic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLAN ZEPEDA/FOOD & WINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); WINERIES (78%); TABLE EGGS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SWEEPSTAKES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); DISTILLERIES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); DINING OUT TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (52%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (91%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



400 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Qantas Airways, Sydney, named Droga5 as its global creative agency of record, assuming duties that had been handled for 17 years by M&C Saatchi. Droga5 Australia, Sydney, will be the lead creative planning agency, working with David Droga, chairman, and his team, based in the agency's New York headquarters. After a review for the media part of the account, Qantas decided to keep ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, as the worldwide media agency. Two other Publicis Groupe agencies will work for Qantas: Amnesia Razorfish, for digital media strategy, and Publicis Mojo, which continues as a strategic adviser and on a project basis. Also, R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will handle what are being described as specialist digital projects. Spending was estimated at more than $60 million.
People 
Nina B. Link, president and chief executive at MPA -- the Association of Magazine Media, New York, which is the trade organization for the magazine industry, said she would step down at the end of the year, when her contract expires, to re-establish her consulting and product development company. Ms. Link has led the organization, formerly known as the Magazine Publishers of America, since September 1999. A search is under way for a successor.
Alex Lubar joined McCann Erickson North America, New York, as chief marketing officer, focused on new business. He assumes duties from Barbara Yolles, who had the title of chief growth officer since she joined a year ago; Ms. Yolles is leaving, the agency said, adding that the decision was hers. Mr. Lubar had been senior vice president for new business at Grey New York, part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP. McCann Erickson North America is part of the McCann Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Craig Mangan joined BBDO San Francisco as executive vice president and executive creative director, assuming duties from Mike McKay, executive creative director, who left last fall to join Eleven, San Francisco, as partner and chief creative officer. Mr. Mangan had been an associate creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group. BBDO San Francisco is part of BBDO North America, a division of the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom.
Christian Carl joined Euro RSCG New York, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas Worldwide, as one of four executive creative directors, focused primarily on the Dos Equis account and providing creative support for the agency's business development efforts. He had been creative director at McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network division of Dentsu, and before that worked for another Havas Worldwide agency, Arnold Worldwide. Havas Worldwide is part of Havas.
Gavin Manley joined Laird & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as vice president for business development and marketing, a new post. He had been director for new business and marketing at AR, New York.
Mauro Porcini joined PepsiCo, Purchase, N.Y., as chief design officer, a new post, working on worldwide design strategy for brands and products like Pepsi-Cola, Gatorade, Quaker and Tropicana, the last of which was the subject of a notorious redesign in 2009 that was quickly abandoned in the face of widespread customer complaints. Mr. Porcini had been chief design officer at 3M, St. Paul, Minn.
Miscellany
Procter & Gamble is borrowing a page from its ''Proud sponsor of Moms'' Olympic campaign, which declares, ''Thank you, Mom,'' by introducing a commercial that says, ''Here's to Dad.'' The commercial is scheduled to begin on American television on Monday, timed to the coming of Father's Day on Sunday, and will include elements in social media like Facebook and Twitter. The fathers' commercial is on behalf of Procter's Gillette brand and features three of the 26 Olympic athletes who endorse Gillette: Roger Federer, Tyson Gay and Ryan Lochte. The mothers' campaign, which is to return for the Summer Olympics in London, is an image-building campaign for Procter as a company and appears around the world. The Gillette commercial is created by BBDO New York, part of the BBDO North America unit of BBDO Worldwide, a division of the Omnicom Group. The mothers' campaign is created by Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore. Procter also feted fathers in a coupon insert that appeared in American Sunday newspapers on June 3, which carried on the cover the words ''Honoring Dads'' and inside featured a paean to male parents that began: ''You're the best, Dad. You inspired me to follow my dreams.'' The focus on fathers is unusual for Procter, which more typically aims ads for its products at women.
TNT, part of the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner, signed Lowe's, the home-improvement retailer, as the presenting sponsor of ''Dallas Round-Up,'' Web shows that will run on dallastnt.com, after episodes of the new series ''Dallas'' appear on the TNT cable channel. The first episode of ''Dallas,'' a revival of the classic CBS series, is to run on TNT from 9 to 11 p.m. on Wednesday and the Web show is to follow at 11 p.m.
Royalty revenue for licensed merchandise in North America rose 5 percent last year from 2010, the first gain in five years, according to the 2012 Licensing Industry Report from the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers' Association, known as Lima. There were increases in categories like character-related merchandise and licensed fashion sales.
Skim, Rotterdam, a market research agency, said it would open an office in San Francisco in the summer. Skim also has offices in Geneva, London and New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (68%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (94%); M&C SAATCHI PLC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); HAVAS SA (85%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (84%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (80%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (65%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (57%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (52%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (52%); MDC PARTNERS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); PUB (PAR) (94%); SAA (LSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (85%); HAV (PAR) (85%); QAN (ASX) (84%); MDZ.A (TSX) (50%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

 
