

401 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

U.S. Reviews Russian Aid In Light of Security Issues
A Bush administration review of American assistance to Russia concluded that most of the programs aimed at helping Russia stop the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons are vital to American security and should be continued, and some even expanded, an administration official said. A1

Chinese Leader Visits Moscow
President Jiang Zemin of China arrived in the Russian capital for a state visit that is to culminate with the signing of a treaty on friendship and cooperation. It will be the first such pact since 1950, when Moscow and Beijing allied themselves against the West. A7

Clues to Fate of 3 Americans
The Serbian authorities have found what may be the remains of three Albanian-Americans from New York who were arrested and apparently executed under Slobodan Milosevic's government shortly after the end of NATO's war against Yugoslavia. A7

Israelis Bury Land Proposals
The Israeli government formally buried the idea of land exchanges with the Palestinians, a concept that was raised during the peace talks at Camp David a year ago. A6

India-Pakistan Discussions
India's prime minister and Pakistan's military ruler had their first face-to-face meeting and private negotiations in Agra after a two-year standoff over Kashmir. A6

U.S. Envoy Ends Hanoi Tenure
America's first postwar ambassador to Vietnam, Pete Peterson, ended his four-year tenure. A trade agreement is expected to be ratified soon in Washington and Hanoi. Mr. Peterson, a former prisoner in Hanoi, said he felt he had helped build "respectful and, really, normal relations." A4

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Global Warming Talks
Representatives from more than 170 nations meet today in Bonn to begin last-ditch talks to save a treaty to combat global warming. The United States and the European Union face off as the principal antagonists over the climate treaty, called the Kyoto Protocol. A3

NATIONAL A8-12

Push for Energy Plan Starts But Prices Are Going Down
The Bush administration is starting a campaign-style push to drum up support for its energy plan this week, but the sense of crisis that had propelled the plan forward has receded while energy shortages ease and fuel prices fall. Gasoline prices have been going down for six weeks straight and now average $1.47 a gallon, compared with $1.71 a gallon when the administration unveiled its energy strategy in May. A1

Fired Sunbeam Chief's Secret
Albert J. Dunlap wowed Wall Street when he was the chief executive of Sunbeam. His memoir became a best seller. Then, in 1998, he was fired and confronted with fraud allegations. Neither Sunbeam nor the Securities and Exchange Commission, both of which claim he acted fraudulently, knew that a quarter of a century ago Mr. Dunlap had faced similar accusations. They are detailed in court records obtained from the National Archives, where they had been stored for years. A1

Bush Plans Tax Code Overhaul
President Bush, having achieved his goal of a substantial tax cut, is making plans to address the even more ambitious and divisive issue of overhauling or replacing the entire federal tax code. A1

Cotton Making a Comeback
For the first time in 37 years there are more acres of cotton planted in Mississippi than soybeans, there are 30 percent more white bolls emerging in the state than there were last year, and there are double-digit increases in planting in Arkansas, Louisiana and North Carolina. A9

Muted Optimism on Missile
The United States military has succeeded for only the second time in shooting down an intercontinental ballistic missile, but Pentagon officials warned that much more development will be needed before the technology can reliably destroy real weapons. A8

News Executive Hurt in Fall
Katharine Graham, 84, chairwoman of the executive committee of The Washington Post Company, was in critical condition at a hospital in Idaho after surgery that followed a fall, the paper reported. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Fugitive in Carnegie Case Arrested at Miami Shelter
The authorities arrested the man wanted in the execution-style killing of three people in a drug robbery above the Carnegie Deli, tracking him to a Miami homeless shelter based on calls to the "America's Most Wanted" television show. The arrest of the fugitive, Joseph Sean Salley of Crown Heights, Brooklyn, put behind bars the second of two suspects in the May 10 killings, which turned the teeming Midtown theater district into a crime scene. The brutality of the crime, in which police say five people were shot in the head despite offering no resistance, jolted many New Yorkers after years of declining murder rates. The man accused of being Mr. Salley's accomplice, Andre S. Smith, 31, of Irvington, was arrested on May 22. B1

Sex and the Ex-Soviets
A film about immigrant life in Brooklyn written, produced and acted by New York-area immigrants from the former Soviet Union has roiled the city's Russian-speaking community. Its producer, who is negotiating with Russian television stations and hopes to turn the film into a series, describes its plot as a cross between "The Sopranos" and "Sex and the City." A1

Town Hit by Layoffs
The bottom has dropped out of an economic boom in Corning, N.Y., with Corning Inc. laying off about 1,000 people in the town of 11,000 after one of the businesses in the company's high-tech transformation fell apart. The company has stopped paying dividends to shareholders for the first time since 1945. B1

ARTS E1-8

Leonard's List
The prolific American novelist Elmore Leonard offers a Top 10 list of rules for writers and sums them up with one more: If it sounds like writing, rewrite it. And, drawing on John Steinbeck, he sounds a warning against losing readers by indulging in "a bunch of hooptedoodle." E1

What the Moves Mean
Like other performing arts, dance is sharpening its marketing skills. In the meantime no dance seems to go unexplained. The needs of the most grizzled dancegoers are now attended to with everything from pre- and post-performance talks to lively information-age Web sites complete with dance-related games. The education of audiences has become an industry. E1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

OBITUARIES B7

Meyer P. Potamkin
A Philadelphia banker and philanthropist who assembled one of the country's finest private collections of American art, he was 91. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

AT&T Cable Talks Are Seen
Despite the company's statements that its cable television arm is not for sale, people close to AT&T say it is considering potential deals. C1

Book Ads Plug Cleanser
An advertising campaign for Strivers Row, a new line of books from Random House aimed at black readers, is creating a stir among black authors and agents because the advertisements double as plugs for Pine-Sol, the household cleanser. C1

Private Suits and Microsoft
The court decision upholding a ruling that Microsoft had violated antitrust law aided the dozens of lawsuits customers have filed against the company. But many experts said it might be premature to assert that private suits could curb its behavior. C1

Reality Check for Big Brother
A quick check of court records after Justin Sebik, a bartender from Bayonne, N.J., was removed from CBS's Big Brother 2 for holding a knife to the throat of a woman on the show found that a Justin Sebik, with the same Social Security number as the person on the show, had been arrested five times, including three times for simple assault. CBS said its background check had found no record of assault arrests. C8

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Florida's flawed ballots; the new Pentagon war strategy; a rocky road for AT&T.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
Public Lives A8
Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather A13

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); ARRESTS (68%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); DISMISSALS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) KASHMIR (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); VIETNAM (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); VIET NAM (79%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



402 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Hackensack: Tuition Outpaces Inflation 

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 New Jersey colleges and universities continue to raise tuition at a rate faster than inflation, a move officials attribute to increasing costs for salaries and building upgrades. 
On Friday, the board of Rutgers University approved a 5 percent tuition increase for in-state students. A typical student will pay $12,794 for tuition, fees, and room and board. The Consumer Price Index showed that inflation rose 3.6 percent between May 2000 and May 2001. But officials at Princeton said the university will raise its costs by 3 percent, to $33,613, the smallest increase in 34 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); STUDENT EXPENSES (88%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (85%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



403 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy, A Bridge To Vietnam, Ends Tenure 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, July 15 

 BODY:
If anybody personified the maturing new relationship between the United States and Vietnam, it was Ambassador Pete Peterson, a former prisoner there who almost never talked about the war.
 Low-key and businesslike, he brought an aura of common sense to a relationship still freighted with resentments and mistrust on both sides, earning respect in both Hanoi and Washington. 
 Speaking by telephone today from the Hanoi airport as he ended his four-year tenure as America's first postwar ambassador to Vietnam, Mr. Peterson said he felt he had helped build "respectful and, really, normal relations" between the former adversaries. 
"I think we've reached the point where we are finding more and more things that we have in common," he said. "So I feel that the bridge has been largely erected, and a foundation for the future that we can build on."
The chief accomplishment of Mr. Peterson's tenure has both symbolic and tangible significance for the future: a trade agreement that is, effectively, a blueprint not only for relations between the two nations but for Vietnam's future economic liberalization and integration into the world marketplace.
The agreement, negotiated for more than four years, produced some of Mr. Peterson's major frustrations and successes here. After doubts, backtracking and hard bargaining on both sides, with Mr. Peterson as the point man, the agreement brought with it a new sense of cooperation and trust.
Signed in the final days of his stewardship, the wide-ranging agreement is expected to be ratified soon in Washington and in Hanoi. 
It marks the final step in the normalization of relations between the two countries that began with the dropping of America's trade embargo in 1994 and establishment of full diplomatic relations in 1995.
Mr. Peterson, 66, arrived in 1997, taking up residence not far from the former prison known as the Hanoi Hilton where he was held after being shot down in an Air Force F-4 Phantom jet while making his 67th bombing run over North Vietnam. 
He spent six and a half years as a prisoner, three of them in the Hanoi prison, where he was tortured and held in solitary confinement, before being released in 1973.
When Mr. Peterson was appointed ambassador, he was a third-term congressman from Florida who had been active, like other war veterans in Congress, in promoting improved relations with Vietnam.
When he arrived in Hanoi, his background brought him the respect and the moral weight to ease postwar mistrust.
"I don't think they could have found anybody who was more perfect to be the first ambassador," said Sesto Vecchi, an American lawyer who is based at his firm's office in Ho Chi Minh City.
"The trade agreement is kind of the capstone of his tour," Mr. Vecchi said. "Just think of what's in it -- any page you look at, you think, 'How could this provision have been negotiated if it had been a stand-alone provision.' But if you put the 130 pages together, they carry a momentum of their own. And I think he understood that."
Mr. Peterson's tenure was also highlighted by President Clinton's visit to Vietnam last November, the first by an American president since the war. The visit underscored the new, more businesslike relationship between the two nations.
Like Mr. Peterson, Mr. Clinton looked forward rather than backward, repeatedly urging the Vietnamese to open up their economy and society as the best route to national development.
Mr. Peterson's replacement has not yet been named, but the ambassador will be "a hard act to follow," said Carl A. Thayer, an expert on Vietnam who is a professor at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu. "He has had to navigate through Vietnamese obstructionism and still keep that faith in engagement back home," Mr. Thayer said. "He has pursued it with professionalism and with, I believe, the respect of the Vietnamese."
Mr. Peterson's tour in Hanoi also had its personal highlight: his marriage to Vi Le, an Australian trade official who had fled Vietnam as a child at the end of the war. It was his second marriage; his first wife died of cancer.
The breathing space between his ambassadorship and the next phase of his life was to last precisely as long as his airplane flight to Tallahassee, Fla., where supporters planned to meet him with signs reading, "Run, Pete, run."
Democratic leaders in Florida have been courting Mr. Peterson as a possible candidate for governor in the 2002 election against the Republican incumbent, Jeb Bush. The Democratic field in the high-profile race is already becoming crowded, with former Attorney General Janet Reno also considering a run for the office.
"I'll get on the road quite rapidly and start being able to make measurements not only of support but also the realities associated with the politics of winning," Mr. Peterson said in the interview from the airport. "I'm not interested in running for governor; I'm interested in winning the governor's race."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete Peterson, the first postwar ambassador to Vietnam, ended his tenure in Hanoi yesterday. Mr. Peterson helped broker a trade agreement with Vietnam, and is considering running for governor of Florida. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); VETERANS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (67%) FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM 

PERSON: PETERSON, PETER G (AMB); MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (90%) VIETNAM; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



404 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: China and Russia Draw Closer, With Ceremony Today 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 15 

 BODY:
President Jiang Zemin of China arrived in the Russian capital today for a state visit that is to culminate Monday in the signing of a treaty on friendship and cooperation. It will be the first such pact since 1950, when Moscow and Beijing allied themselves against the West.
 Russian and Chinese officials have said in recent weeks that the treaty -- and a political declaration that accompanies it -- do not represent a military alliance and that the accord is not aimed at "any third country." Yet strengthening Russia's economic and political bonds with China will unavoidably be viewed as a response to the dominance of the United States and its European allies in post-cold-war international affairs, a number of political analysts said. 
 Mr. Jiang's arrival today followed two important events: the victory of China's effort to be named the host for the 2008 Olympic Games, and the test of an American missile interceptor. That heralded the acceleration of Bush administration plans to go forward with a missile defense system, a step that Russia and China both oppose as destabilizing to the existing strategic balance.
The Olympic decision is being taken by China as an affirmation that other nations support its effort to continue to shed its Communist past and to open its economy. 
For both Mr. Jiang and for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, this meeting -- staged right before the summit meeting of major industrial nations in Genoa -- is important for both imagery and substance.
China is seeking to bind itself more closely to Russia as Mr. Putin is planting the country more firmly as a European power. And Mr. Putin, who is engaged in a critical opening dialogue with President Bush, is able to demonstrate to those who see Russia as a declining power that it stands as a crucial bridge to the rest of Asia, especially to China, which is regarded by Mr. Bush and his advisers as a major security challenge.
"Politically and diplomatically, the visit of the Chinese leader will add more weight and more importance to all aspects of collaboration between Russia and China," said Andrei A. Kokoshin, national security adviser to former President Boris N. Yeltsin. Mr. Kokoshin said that Mr. Putin's constructive approach to Beijing will be a useful reminder to the Bush administration that "it is a big mistake to treat China as an enemy and potential competitor and any attempt to isolate them would be very dangerous and counterproductive."
Russian and Chinese leaders say they are seeking an alliance of common interests for economic development, security in Central Asia and cooperation to control the inherent tensions that have plagued the Asian giants historically. This is in significant contrast to the cold war alliance between Stalin and Mao -- a strategic merger at a time of enormous ideological struggle after World War II. That struggle is over.
"For Russia and China this meeting means a lot," said Andrei Kozyrev, foreign minister under Mr. Yeltsin. "We have had a very troubled and unpredictable history," including huge territorial seizures by Russia in the 19th century, an ideological rift during the late 1950's that almost led to a border war in 1969, and population pressures that have sent millions of Chinese emigrants into Russia's Far East in search of work and business opportunities.
In Soviet times, the 4,500-mile border with China was fortified with nuclear-tipped missiles and chemical weapons. Today that border has shrunk to 2,550 miles as independent Central Asian republics have opened their own relations with China. Soviet troops and weapons have withdrawn, and new border accords have stabilized the region as new trade routes have opened along the old Silk Road.
As old enmities have faded, Russia and China have forged a tactical partnership when Western ascendancy seemed to threaten their joint interests. Both countries chafed at NATO's intervention in the Balkans, when it seemed that a case might someday be made for international intervention in Tibet, where China has imposed repressive policies, or in Chechnya, where Russian troops have terrorized civilians while suppressing rebellion. Both Moscow and Beijing have worked to ease United Nations sanctions on Iraq, where both have economic interests, and both sell weapons and nuclear technology to Iran, despite Western concerns about Iran's support for terrorism.
Russia has become China's largest supplier of modern weapons at a time when its military buildup has raised concerns over whether China and the United States could be drawn into a conflict over Taiwan. The United States is Taiwan's largest supplier of military equipment.
Mr. Kozyrev said that while an alliance of interests binds Russia and China, "it is very important that Russia refrain from the temptation to play the so-called China card" -- meaning to feign the formation of a military alliance to create leverage and to produce anxiety for the West. "I hope that Mr. Putin is sober minded enough not to do that," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jiang Zemin of China inspected a Russian honor guard upon his arrival yesterday in Moscow. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



405 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: DROP IN FUEL PRICE MAY WEAKEN PUSH FOR ENERGY PLANS 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration begins a campaign-style push to drum up support for its energy plan this week, the sense of crisis that had propelled the plan forward has receded while energy shortages ease and fuel prices fall, at least for now.
 Gasoline prices have been going down for six weeks straight and now average $1.47 a gallon, compared with $1.71 a gallon during the week of May 14, when the administration unveiled its energy strategy, according to the Department of Energy. Natural gas prices have dropped even faster and now average less than a third of the peak levels they reached early this year. In both cases, high prices spurred fresh production. 
 In California, where record electricity prices and local blackouts captured national attention for months, wholesale power prices have fallen to the lowest levels in more than a year. Analysts credit new power supplies, a state-led conservation effort and federal price controls for averting what many had feared would be a catastrophic summer of scarcity. 
Administration officials said their energy strategy was intended to address long-term shortages, not short-term market fluctuations. But the surge of gasoline, natural gas and electricity supplies appears to undercut the administration's contention, as stated at the beginning of its energy strategy report, that "America in the year 2001 faces the most serious energy shortage since the oil embargoes of the 1970's."
The White House had once counted on a sense of emergency to persuade Congress to allow drilling on more protected lands and to change or abandon some regulations seen as impeding energy production.
Lower prices have diminished the sense of crisis and forced the administration to retreat from some priorities on Capitol Hill. The only energy-related proposals that have garnered broad bipartisan support are those that push energy conservation, a subject that critics say got short shrift in the president's energy plan.
"If we were having blackouts every day you can be sure the president would be out there insisting that we drill in the Arctic or else," said David Freeman, who is coordinating California's response to its electricity shortages for Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat. "The fact that we've managed to keep the lights on and bring prices way down doesn't help his case much."
The president's case has also been hurt by polls showing that many people view his energy policies as favoring big oil companies at the expense of the environment. Some Republicans said a backlash against the energy plan had diminished the influence of Vice President Dick Cheney, its main architect.
Mr. Bush is still turning to Mr. Cheney, and to members of the cabinet, to stir up public and Congressional enthusiasm for drilling and other measures as the House takes up energy legislation this week.
On Monday, Mr. Cheney is moderating a town hall meeting on energy in Pittsburgh. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham is in Chicago, Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton is in South Dakota, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans is in Charlotte, N.C., and Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta is in Cleveland. Christie Whitman, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, is in Connecticut.
Yet even House Republicans say prospects for the most contested measures have faded with the price scare. For instance, Representative Sherwood Boehlert, a New York Republican, said there was no chance Congress would approve drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
"A.N.W.R. is to energy policy as vouchers are to education policy," Mr. Boehlert said. "It's going nowhere."
Mr. Boehlert said Mr. Cheney had rebounded from criticism that the administration's energy plan paid only lip service to conservation, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
"That was a misstep," he said. "But since then, there's been a concerted effort by the administration to get other points of view."
Mr. Cheney's aides insist that any miscalculations by the vice president were in tone and not in substance, and that at any rate he is now back on course.
"The main point is that we've been here six months, and not only have we produced a comprehensive energy plan, but specific initiatives are being marked up in Congress," said Mary Matalin, Mr. Cheney's chief political adviser.
The White House got a rare legislative victory on energy last week when the Senate rejected a measure to block new drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico. But that vote came after the administration scaled back its own plan to drill in the eastern gulf, caving in to criticism from many Florida politicians, including Gov. Jeb Bush, the president's brother.
The administration has fared less well in other votes. The Senate voted last week against opening lands designated national monuments for coal, oil and gas exploration. The House passed a measure that would ban drilling under the Great Lakes.
And though the administration says it is awaiting a scientific analysis before deciding whether to set higher fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks, a pivotal House panel voted last week to mandate that sport utility vehicles and minivans perform more efficiently.
As the administration seeks to cobble together an energy package in Congress, it is not likely to have the backdrop of ever-rising energy prices to help close the sale.
When the White House began preparing its energy plan last winter, Mr. Bush, Mr. Cheney and other top officials, many of whom have had extensive experience in the energy industry, repeatedly sounded the alarm. They said price spikes were the result of chronic underinvestment linked to regulatory impediments.
But independent analysts now argue that the scare may have had more to do with ordinary business decisions by energy companies. Facing record low prices in the late 1990's, companies did not invest much in new oil and gas exploration or gasoline and electricity production, creating shortages. Higher prices since then have had the reverse effect on investment, supply and prices.
The Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy, for example, notes that gasoline prices have fallen sharply during the summer driving season because of a "dramatic response in gasoline production" last spring, when prices were high. At that time, Mr. Abraham, the energy secretary, warned that prices could hit $3 a gallon this summer because refineries could not produce enough gasoline.
Natural gas markets also seemed deeply troubled a few months back. With the number of rigs drilling gas wells at 550 in early 2000, supplies were thin and prices sky-high. But the industry responded without federal intervention. Now, 1,050 rigs are drilling for natural gas without any new lands opened for exploration. Prices have collapsed.
"We doubled the rig count in less than 18 months, which is phenomenal," said Darryl Smette, senior vice president for marketing at Devon Energy of Oklahoma.
In a widely publicized speech, Mr. Cheney used California, which has prided itself on its low per capita consumption of electricity, to illustrate his contention that conservation cannot be the basis of a sound energy policy.
The administration also steadfastly opposed any federal price controls for wholesale electricity markets in California, arguing that such interference would only distort the market and do little to relieve the state's woes.
California officials now say tht prices have plunged this summer because of a conservation drive that brought electricity consumption down 11 percent compared with last year. They say several new power plants helped increase supply. And they credit federal price controls, which an independent federal agency imposed after resisting the measure for months, with helping to contain prices as well.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the impact of falling fuel prices on the Bush administration's energy plan misstated comments by Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham about gasoline prices. Mr. Abraham testified to Congress that news reports about inflated prices could become a "self-fulfilling prophecy" and raise prices to $3 a gallon in the summer, but he did not warn that prices could go that high, and he said his information did not support predictions of so steep an increase.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE: Falling Energy Prices"National average prices for gasoline and natural gas have been declining recently. REGULAR GASOLINE Graph showing the average price of gasoline per gallon, from January 2000 to May 2001. NATURAL GAS Graph showing the average price of natural gas per million B.T.U.'s, from January 2000 to May 2001*. * May-July 2001 figures are estimates.(Source: Energy Information Administration)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); WHOLESALERS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); WILDERNESS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; WILDERNESS AREAS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GAS (FUEL) 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (78%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



406 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Review on Russia Urges Keeping Most Arms Controls 

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MILLER with MICHAEL R. GORDON 

 BODY:
A Bush administration review of American assistance to Russia has concluded that most of the programs aimed at helping Russia stop the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons are vital to American security and should be continued, a senior administration official says. Some may even be expanded. 
 But the White House wants to restructure or end two programs: a $2.1 billion effort to dispose of hundreds of tons of military plutonium and a program to shrink Russian cities that were devoted to nuclear weapons development, and to provide alternative jobs for nuclear scientists, the official said in an interview on Friday. Both these programs have been criticized in Congress. 
 The review also calls for a shift in philosophy from "assistance to partnership" with Russia. 
To do that, the official said, Russia would have to demonstrate a willingness to make a financial and political commitment to stop the spread of advanced conventional weapons and to end its sale of nuclear and other military-related expertise and technology to Iran and other nations unfriendly to the United States. 
One administration official said the issue of how to handle Russia's sales of sensitive technology and expertise not only to Iran, Iraq, Libya and others hostile to America was being considered separately by the White House. No decisions have been made yet. 
But on those issues, it would be "hard to create a partnership if we think that Russia is proliferating," this official added. "It's not a condition; it's a fact of life."
Administration officials said the recommendation to extend most nonproliferation programs was not conditioned upon Russian acquiescence to the administration's determination to build a nuclear missile shield. 
The review covered 30 programs with an annual outlay of some $800 million. They are a cornerstone of America's scientific and military relationship with Russia. The programs, involving mostly the Pentagon, the Energy Department and the State Department, pay for the dismantling of weapons facilities and the strengthening of security at sites where nuclear, chemical and biological weapons are stored.
President Bush is expected to discuss some of these programs when he meets with President Vladimir V. Putin next weekend. That meeting, in Genoa, Italy, is expected to focus on American plans to build the missile shield, which the Americans admit would violate a longstanding treaty between the two nations.
The administration's endorsement of most of the nonproliferation programs begun by the Clinton administration will not surprise most legislators, given that the administration is now trying to avoid being portrayed as single-minded on national security matters in its pursuit of a missile shield, and as unresponsive to European support for arms control.
Officials said that although cabinet officials had discussed the review's findings, no final decisions on the recommendations would be made until Congress reacted to the proposals. The administration has begun arranging to brief key legislators on the results of its review, which began in April and was conducted by an expert on Russia on loan from the State Department to the National Security Council office that deals with nonproliferation strategy. That office is headed by Bob Joseph.
In interviews, administration officials said the White House would not overlook Russian efforts to weaken the programs by restricting access to weapons plants or by erecting obstacles to meeting nonproliferation commitments. "We have a high standard for Russian behavior," one official said. 
The review has concluded that most of the $420 million worth of the Pentagon's programs -- called Cooperative Threat Reduction -- are "effectively managed" and advance American interests. 
The White House also intends to expand State Department programs that help Russian scientists engage in peaceful work through the Moscow-based International Science and Technology Center, which the European Union and Japan also support, and other institutions. 
But some big-ticket programs whose budgets have already been slashed or criticized on Capitol Hill are likely to be shut down or "refocused," the official said. 
Though it is no longer very expensive, another program, the Nuclear Cities Initiative, has already been scaled back by Congress. It was begun in 1998 to help create nonmilitary work for Russia's 122,000 nuclear scientists and to help Russia downsize geographically and economically isolated nuclear cities, where 760,000 people live. 
Unhappy with both the cost and the Russian reluctance to open these cities fully to Western visitors, Congress has repeatedly slashed money for the program. Under the Bush review, the undefined "positive aspects" would be merged into other programs, and most of the program closed.
The Clinton administration had begun the program to provide civilian work for Russia's closed nuclear cities. The aim was to prevent nuclear scientists there from leaving for Iraq, Iran and other aspiring nuclear powers. Under the program, the Russians would also have to expedite the closure of two warhead-assembly plants and their conversion to civilian production.
"The administration will be missing an opportunity to shut down two warhead production plants if it abandons the Nuclear Cities Initiative," said Rose Gottemoeller, a senior Energy Department official during the Clinton administration. The administration says Russia plans to close those two facilities in any event. 
The White House also intends to overhaul a hugely expensive effort to enable Russia and the United States each to destroy 34 tons of stored plutonium by building facilities in Russia and the United States. The program, as currently structured, will cost Russia $2.1 billion and the United States $6.5 billion, at a minimum. The administration has pledged $400 million and has already appropriated $240 million.
In February 2000, the Clinton administration wrested a promise from Russia to stop making plutonium out of fuel from its civilian power reactors as part of a research and aid package. While Russia was supposed to stop adding to its estimated stockpile of 160 tons of military plutonium by shutting down three military reactors last December, Moscow was unable to do so because the reactors, near Tomsk and Krasnoyarsk, provide heat and electricity to those cities. 
Critics said the original program was too costly and was not moving forward. But supporters say the Bush administration should try harder to solicit funds from European and other governments before shelving the effort and walking away from the accord. 
The administration insists it is still exploring less expensive options. 
The administration has also deferred a decision on a commitment to help Russia build facilities to destroy 40,000 tons of chemical weapons, the world's such stockpile. The first plant has been completed at Gorny, 660 miles southeast of Moscow, but American assistance to build a second plant at Shchuchye, 1,000 miles southeast of Moscow, has been frozen by Congress. 
Many legislators have complained that the Russians have not fully declared the total and type of chemical weapons they made, and that they have put up too little of their own money for the project. 
In February, however, Russia announced that it had increased its annual budget for destroying the weapons sixfold, to $105 million, and presented a plan to begin operating the first of three destruction plants. The administration official said this reflected a "significant change" in Russia's attitude towards commitments that "could have an impact on our thinking" about the program. 
The Russians hope to destroy their vast chemical stocks by 2012, a deadline that will require that they obtain a five-year extension. But Moscow will not be able to meet even that deferred deadline unless construction begins soon for a destruction installation at Shchuchye.
The Clinton administration, after Congress slashed funds for the project, lined up support from several foreign governments.
Elisa Harris, a research fellow at the University of Maryland and a former specialist on chemical weapons for President Clinton's National Security Council, said the destruction effort could falter unless the Bush administration persuaded Congress to rescind the ban and finally support the program. 
Commenting on the review, Leon Fuerth, a visiting professor of international affairs at George Washington University and the national security adviser to former Vice President Al Gore, said, "By and large they are going to sustain what they inherited, which is good for the country."
But the senior Bush administration official said the review did not endorse the Clinton approach. This administration, he said, is determined to "establish better and more cost-efficient ways" of achieving its nonproliferation goals and integrating such programs into a comprehensive strategy toward Russia. He said the White House planned to form a White House steering group "to assure that the programs are well managed and better coordinated." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; LABOR; FOREIGN AID; NUCLEAR WASTES; PLUTONIUM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MILLER, JUDITH; GORDON, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); ITALY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



407 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Bush, After Gaining Tax Cut, Is Taking Aim at Tax Code 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15 

 BODY:
Having achieved its initial economic goal of a substantial tax cut, the Bush administration is making plans to address an even more ambitious and divisive issue: overhauling or replacing the entire federal tax code. 
 The discussions within the White House about changing the way individuals and companies are taxed are in early stages, and administration officials emphasized that they are a long way from settling on either policy prescriptions or a political strategy. 
 They said the subject would not make it to the top of President Bush's agenda for at least a year or two and might even be held back to serve as a signature issue for a re-election campaign in 2004. 
At this point, they said, the administration is just beginning to weigh the pros and cons of the three main options, which are simplifying the existing progressive income tax system, adopting a single-rate flat tax on income or moving to an entirely new system that would tax consumption through some sort of sales or value-added tax. 
An overhaul of the tax system "is in the discussion stage," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser. 
"The facts are that one needs a broad consensus before moving on fundamental tax reform," Mr. Lindsey said. "The process of building that consensus takes time. That doesn't mean you shouldn't start the process."
But in starting an internal review of the options, the White House is wading into one of the most complex and politically charged topics in Washington. 
Any proposal for a major change to the current progressive income tax system would surely mobilize armies of lobbyists and interest groups intent either on preserving existing tax breaks or creating new ones. It would also rekindle a longstanding debate among economists about the fairest and most efficient way for the government to raise the revenue it needs. 
To Republicans, an overhaul of the tax system promises a new front in their efforts to limit taxation and rein in or even eliminate the Internal Revenue Service, which to many conservatives has become the symbol of what they consider an intrusive and bloated federal government. They say developing a simpler tax system would remove a huge drag on the economy.
To Democrats, simplifying the tax system is a worthy cause, but one that, when entrusted to Republicans, becomes a thinly disguised excuse for pushing through further tax cuts for the wealthy. Most of the proposals on the table, they say, would shift more of the tax burden onto low- and middle-income people.
With encouragement from the White House, some of the biggest supporters of a tax overhaul in Congress are also planning efforts to put the issue back on the agenda. Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader in the House and a longtime advocate of a flat tax, plans to hold a symposium on tax reform next Monday on Capitol Hill.
The featured speaker will be Mr. Lindsey, whose presence, Mr. Armey said, should be a clear signal that the administration takes overhauling the tax system seriously and that the prospects for enacting something are good.
"We have people in Congress who want to push this idea, and now we have people in the White House who want to promote the same issue," Mr. Armey said. "It's a chance to reignite the debate."
Democrats said that in floating the prospect of pushing for a new tax system, the administration was less interested in actually developing a new tax code than in shoring up support among economic conservatives by being seen as considering the idea.
Democrats said none of the ideas Republicans might put on the table are credible because they would all involve heavy costs as the economy shifted from one tax system to another. The government cannot afford those costs, Democrats said, now that the tax cut has eaten up most of the projected federal budget surplus.
"They don't have the money to do any of these things," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee. "This is nothing but a political show."
If Republicans were serious, Mr. Rangel said, they would sit down with Democrats to consider how the current tax system could be simplified, perhaps by removing from the tax code many credits that could be reclassified as spending programs.
But many Republicans, including many senior administration officials, long ago concluded that the current tax code had become so hopelessly complex and inefficient that the only way to deal with it was to throw it out and start over.
Paul H. O'Neill, the treasury secretary, called the tax code "9,500 pages of gibberish." As head of the cabinet department that oversees the I.R.S., he said part of his motivation for supporting overhaul efforts "is not liking to be at the top of an organization that gets the level of ridicule and criticism for its inability to administer the tax code the way it is."
But Mr. O'Neill said developing a new system would be a technical and economic challenge -- and that any new approach would also run into opposition.
"When you talk about the need to do something, people get up on their feet and clap," Mr. O'Neill said. "They want this thing fixed. They begin to sit down when you talk about some of the things that would change to get real simplification."
The principles guiding the White House are the same ones Mr. Bush enunciated in the presidential campaign last year: fairer, flatter, simpler.
That formulation is vague enough to encompass any of the main ideas on the table, all of which have advantages and drawbacks.
"We're going through the merits of each, and each has a lot of merit," said R. Glenn Hubbard, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
To many conservatives, the most appealing choice is to eliminate the income tax altogether -- and with it the I.R.S. -- and raise revenue through a tax on consumption, perhaps through a national sales tax. Under most versions of a national sales tax, essential items like food and medicine would be fully or largely exempt from taxation.
But critics of consumption taxes say they discriminate against lower-income people, who spend all or most of their income. And they say such a system encourages the development of an underground economy as people seek to evade paying a sales tax that by some estimates would need to be between 20 percent and 30 percent to replace the revenue generated by income taxes.
Economists have also debated European-style value-added taxes, in which a tax is levied at each stage of production, and then when the item is sold to the final consumer.
Over the last decade, most attention has been focused on a flat-tax system. As typically proposed, such a system would tax individuals based on their wages at a single rate, thereby retaining the basic concept of an income tax, while imposing what amounts to a single-rate value-added tax on businesses.
Supporters of a flat tax say they could keep the rate on individuals below 20 percent. Critics say that the rate would have to be much higher and that the system would require taxpayers to give up all or most of their deductions, including the mortgage interest deduction.
There is also a camp that says the most realistic approach is to overhaul the existing tax code. This camp generally advocates reducing tax rates in return for subjecting more income to taxation by reducing or eliminating deductions -- a step that would also make the tax system simpler. The model for this approach is the bipartisan overhaul of the tax code in 1986, which exchanged lower rates for fewer deductions and loopholes.
There are also less sweeping proposals on the table. Mr. O'Neill, former chairman of Alcoa, the aluminum company, said it was worth considering whether the corporate income tax made any sense, given that the costs were ultimately passed along to consumers.
One of the big challenges for the White House will be finding a consensus among the proponents of the different plans. Mr. Armey, who has been pushing a flat-tax plan for eight years, said he would never support a sales tax because he did not believe it would be practical. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TAX REFORM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SALES TAX (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FLAT TAX; VALUE-ADDED TAX; SALES TAX 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



408 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Live by the Pen, Die by the Sword 

BYLINE:  By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 

 BODY:
At the height of the Maya civilization, the only literate society in pre-Columbian America, kings fervently, perhaps desperately, believed in the power of the pen. Whether they thought it mightier than the sword is doubtful, but a growing body of evidence from Maya writing and art shows that scribes played a central role in magnifying their king's reputation and solidifying his political hold on the realm.
 No royal court in the classic Maya period, especially from about A.D. 600 to 900, seems to have been without scribes of high rank. In paintings and sculptures, they are seen seated cross-legged and wearing a sarong and headcloth, with a bundle of pens and brushes at the ready. Some of the painted or carved figures are accompanied by inscriptions identifying the person as keeper of the royal library, the chief scribe. 
 The court scribes, archaeologists have concluded, came from the noble class, sometimes from the royal family itself -- younger sons of rulers or sons by secondary wives and concubines, and even some daughters. Their duty was to prepare art and text for elaborate public displays glorifying the king's triumphs. They were, in modern parlance, propagandists and spinmeisters. 
When times were good, scribes lived well, sometimes too well. One painting of drunken revelry reveals that even then, writers on occasion had an unbounded thirst. When their king met defeat in battle, though, the scribes were among the first to suffer a cruel fate. And that, as much as anything, an archaeologist has now pointed out, affirms the paramount place of scribes and writing in Maya politics.
In a close study of texts and three imposing pieces of art, Dr. Kevin J. Johnston, a Maya archaeologist at Ohio State University in Columbus, determined that those who lived by the pen for a defeated ruler could expect to die by the conqueror's sword. These scribes were captured, humiliated in a public ceremony, mutilated and finally executed. A favorite form of mutilation was breaking their fingers and tearing out their fingernails.
Writing in the June issue of the journal Antiquity, Dr. Johnston concluded, "Texts were a medium through which kings asserted and displayed power, and thus they and the scribes who produced them were targeted during warfare for destruction."
The fact that many of the captured scribes were kinsmen of the conquered king and suspected of continued loyalty might have contributed to their fate. But the methods of public torture suggest that the conquerors also intended to send an unambiguous message.
"What captors chose to emphasize in public documents was not the physical elimination of the scribes through sacrifice but the destruction through finger mutilation of their capacity to produce for rivals politically persuasive texts," Dr. Johnston wrote. "Finger breaking was a significant political act because it produced and revealed the vulnerability of enemies and competitors."
Dr. Johnston said in an interview that these previously unrecognized practices underscored the importance of the written word and monumental art in reinforcing the power and authority of Maya kings. They were forms of what he called "competitive display," meant to intimidate people into a state of loyalty.
Because most Maya city-states were small and inherently weak, Mayanists say, kings typically had to resort to such ceremonial strategies to help justify and maintain their power. In the late classic period, there were at least 40 city-states across the heart of the Maya domain, which included what is now southern Mexico, Guatemala, Belize and part of Honduras. No single king apparently ever managed to control a wide section of the land.
Dr. David Webster, a Mayanist at Penn State, said he agreed with much of Dr. Johnston's thesis, particularly the role of scribes in proclaiming royal authority through competitive displays.
"A king who is not very confident brags a lot," Dr. Webster said. " 'I am the king,' he brags all over the lowlands. The next king is only 30 kilometers away and he's saying, 'No, I am the king.' There's a lot of status rivalry, and so they build lavish palaces and have a lot of feasting and other ceremonial displays."
A more risky alternative course for enhancing a king's reputation was warfare, which among the Maya often stemmed from "status rivalry" between neighboring rulers, not necessarily from an appetite for more territory. After a war, a monument prepared by a loyal scribe-painter soon went up in the victor's city. The triumphant king is shown standing heroically on the backs of prostrate captives -- the Maya version of a photo-op.
Several other specialists in Mayan archaeology said they found Dr. Johnston's research convincing.
"It's a new perspective based on what had been stray pieces of evidence that we haven't been putting together before," said Dr. Stephen D. Houston of Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah.
Dr. David Freidel of Southern Methodist University in Dallas said the research provided important insights into "a war of words" the Maya seemed to have waged through much of their classical period, before the civilization went into sharp decline around 900.
In his judgment, Dr. Freidel said, the Maya were a history-minded people and their scribes were not just mechanical transcribers but were the historians, intent on defining their culture and imposing their own interpretation of history. The destruction of monuments and inscriptions was one city's way of erasing the history of an enemy. But he questioned the premise that the Maya civilization was more politically fragile than most others.
Modern scholars think that the Maya glyphs are one of only three writing systems -- the other two being Sumerian cuneiform in ancient Mesopotamia and Chinese -- to be invented independently. All others were probably modeled after or influenced by existing scripts. Maya was the last of the three scripts to be deciphered, beginning in the 1950's; it has given scholars a clearer picture of Maya history.
In an attractive and definitive book on the subject, "The Art of the Maya Scribe," Dr. Michael D. Coe, a specialist in Maya writing at Yale, said studies of monumental inscriptions since the decipherment began had "revealed entirely unsuspected details not only of the social and political organization of particular Maya cities, but of their relationships -- often but not always hostile -- between them."
The book's co-author is Justin Kerr, a New York photographer who took most of the color pictures of the sculptures, wall paintings and images on stone monuments that document the roles of Maya scribes as both writers and artists.
One of the crucial decipherments relating to scribes, Dr. Coe said, was made in 1995 by Dr. Nikolai Grube, a German authority on Maya writing. Examining titles occurring on ceramics and monuments, he interpreted the phrase ah k'u hun to mean "keeper of the royal library." This showed the robed person to be a scribe, not a priest, and to be an esteemed member of the royal court. Further investigation showed that the title often accompanied a person wearing the distinctive scribal costume of sarong, headcloth and bundles of brush pens and carving tools.
Another term for a Maya scribe is ah ts'ib, "he of the writing." When still an undergraduate, Dr. David Stuart, now a Mayanist at Harvard, determined that this term was often followed by a name, evidence that at least the highest-ranking scribes were signing their works of art. The title appears to refer to people who were both calligraphers and painters or sculptors.
With their new ability to read Maya glyphs, scholars have learned that these scribes differed in several respects from those in Egypt and Sumer. Early Egyptian and Sumerian writing was used primarily for practical matters, like records of commercial transactions and day-to-day activities in the palace and temples. And scribes there could come from humble origins.
"Unlike the Egyptians and Sumerians, Maya writing doesn't appear to have been used for a lot of pragmatic political and economic purposes," said Dr. Webster, of Penn State. "Maya kings and elite did not run such a hands-on economy. Their scribes came from their own class, and their writing tended to be for ritual and royal purposes."
In the journal article, Dr. Johnston cited three pieces of art to support his thesis that scribes of defeated kings were regularly captured and tortured -- evidence of the influential political role of Maya scribes.
At the ruins of Piedras Negras, in Guatemala, images and inscriptions on a stone monument show the city's victorious king and two of his lieutenants standing over nine noblemen from Pomona, a nearby city-state. "All are bound and semi-nude -- a sign of submission and humiliation," Dr. Johnston wrote, and glyphs on the thigh of one captive mark him as "first person of the pen."
Sculptures in the palace at Palenque, in the Chiapas state of southern Mexico, document three stages of ceremony after the capture of scribes, Dr. Johnston said. After the first stage, public display, the captives are depicted in the stages of mutilation and sacrifice. One scribe has suffered two deep bloodletting incisions on his penis, and a cavity in his chest indicates that his heart has been extracted. Another scribe is shown with his right hand hanging down unnaturally, suggesting that the fingers have been broken. 
At Bonampak, also in Chiapas, Dr. Johnston pointed out, murals depicted in vivid red paint captives that he said had "suffered two indignities: their fingers have been broken and are bleeding copiously, and their fingernails have been torn out."
One figure in the scene is holding aloft in his right hand a quill pen, a gesture that Dr. Johnston said was a Maya pictorial convention for scribal activity. The mural also includes examples of captives who have been executed, one by decapitation and another by having his heart cut out, while broken fingers dripped blood.
"The evidence is very suggestive, and Johnston makes a good argument," said Dr. Houston, of Brigham Young, although he and some other Mayanists raised questions about the interpretation of the Bonampak mural.
In his research, Dr. Johnston found an entry in a 16th-century dictionary of Mayan languages that describes what the Bonampak mural seems to illustrate, and it suggests a recognition long ago of the relationship between writing and royal power. For the word "fingernails" the dictionary provides as the single entry a formal lament. Translated, it reads: "I have no fingernails; I am no longer the person I used to be. I no longer have power or authority or money; I am no one."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scholars say the Maya glyphs are one of only three writing systems invented independently. These symbols were found on a ceramic bowl.; On a Maya vase a scribe, also called an ah k'u hun to mean "keeper of the royal library," was depicted kneeling before a ruler with brush pens in his headdress. (Photographs by Justin Kerr)(pg. F1); Scenes in the palaces at Palenque, above, and Bonampak in the Mexican state of Chiapas document stages of ceremony after the capture of scribes. They are shown in stages of mutilation and sacrifice, left, having suffered bloodletting incisions, broken bones and extracted fingernails. (Justin Kerr); Pawahtun, the Maya patron of scribes, is depicted twice in artwork taken from a pre-Columbian vase, wearing his distinctive netted headdress as he teaches other scribes. (Justin Kerr)(pg. F2) Drawing (Drawing by Jarrod Burks)(pg. F2) Map of Mexico highlighting area of Maya influence. (pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BONE FRACTURES (86%); WRITERS (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%) ARCHAELOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; MAYANS 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (79%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



409 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: A Regional Economy 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Cities and Their Suburbs Are Seen Growing as Units" (news article, July 10):
 The economies of New York City, northern New Jersey, Long Island, western Connecticut and the Hudson Valley tend to rise and fall as a unit. 
Had the study for the United States Conference of Mayors included all of these areas in a more accurate definition of the New York region, it would describe a region ranking in the world's top eight economies, larger than Canada, Brazil and Mexico (not 14th, as the study found). 
 With this kind of economic clout, just imagine the potential to improve the economic vitality and quality of life for our region by acting cooperatively across state and municipal boundaries. Now is the time to start building a "regional city" to sustain the region's global leadership in coming decades. 

CHRISTOPHER JONES
New York, July 11, 2001

The writer is director of economic programs, Regional Plan Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); RANKINGS (71%); MAYORS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%) URBAN AREAS; SUBURBS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (58%)

PERSON: JONES, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (79%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



410 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Continental Airlines Reports a 72% Drop in Quarterly Profit 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Kicking off what promises to be a depressing series of second-quarter earnings reports from the major airlines this week, Continental Airlines surpassed Wall Street expectations yesterday. 
 Even so, Continental's profit slid nearly 72 percent, to $42 million, or 74 cents a share, from $149 million, or $2.39 a share, in the comparable period a year earlier. Revenue dropped about 1 percent, to $2.56 billion, from $2.57 billion. 
 The average estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call was for per-share earnings of 58 cents.
After raising fares a half-dozen times last year, airlines have seen a steep drop in numbers among their bread-and-butter business passengers as the economy has cooled. The second quarter is usually one of the industry's strongest, but it lost an estimated $375 million, according to Samuel C. Buttrick, an analyst with UBS Warburg in New York. It is only the third time the industry has lost money in the second quarter since 1970, he added. 
Sales of last-minute business fares for Continental fell to 43.8 percent of total revenue, compared with 48.1 percent last year. But its costs, excluding fuel, fell more than 4 percent in the quarter, while industrywide costs rose about 4 percent, according to analysts.
Like the rest of the industry, labor costs at Continental have risen by double digits in recent years. But one of the legacies of its tumultuous labor relations in the 1980's, and the fact that several of its contracts do not come up for renewal until next year, is that its wage rates still lag behind its competitors'. In addition, Continental benefits from more favorable work rules, which make it more productive than its competitors. It has also recently been one of the leaders in on-time performance. 
"Because they are running a good airline they can focus on being efficient," said Glenn Engel, an airline analyst with Goldman, Sachs. "They are not having to spend a lot of money to fix service performance problems the way the other airlines are." 
Still, Continental said it would trim capacity growth next year to 3 percent from 5.8 percent in recognition of the current slowdown. Gordon M. Bethune, Continental's chairman, said the airline could still grow 5 percent if the economy picked up.
But that is not what Continental is looking for. Lawrence W. Kellner, Continental's president, said he expected the current quarter to look very much like the second quarter. "The good news is that we are not seeing it get worse," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE W KELLNER (58%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



411 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 30 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN FALLS. The yen declined after the Bank of Japan signaled the outlook for the economy was dimming. In New York, the dollar settled at 125.47 yen, down from 124.83 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since Jan., 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); TRENDS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (74%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



412 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In an economic slowdown, a new push for accountability among account planners.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliot 

 BODY:
AGENCY employees who are responsible for gaining insights into the behavior of consumers -- the better to sell them stuff, natch -- are seeking to become more accountable as the continuing sluggishness of the economy leads clients to demand more efficient and effective advertising.
 The employees, known as account planners, work with the agency creative departments so that the consumer data they gather can help shape the campaigns before ever reaching the intended audiences. The insights sought through the process, known as account planning, can be either rational or emotional, "Eureka!" moments or quiet observations. 
 Account planning first became popular in Britain, where prominent account planners became the equivalent of celebrities in advertising trade publications, and was subsequently introduced in the United States in the 1980's and 1990's. Now, the organization that represents the estimated 2,000 American professionals in the field, the Account Planning Group, wants to intensify its efforts to become more relevant to marketers and, not incidentally, their agency colleagues. 
"The economy has had a positive effect because it forces us to focus on our real charge, the effect of communication in the market place," said David Hackworthy, executive planning director at the New York office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, an agency that has long specialized in account planning.
"We've spent too much time navel-gazing, tweaking ads instead of dealing with big ideas," he added. "It's time for accountability to be at the forefront. If your communication isn't effective, fire the planner."
TBWA/Chiat/Day is part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.
"It's a challenging time for agencies in general, and it's a challenging time for planning in particular," said Emma Cookson, strategic planning director at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, a British agency that is known for the central role account planning plays in its operations. "When times are tough, you get a lot more focus on what matters, what you're contributing.
"Our discipline is not an end in its own right; people don't buy products because of the strategy," Ms. Cookson said. "You'd better be adding value, or you're expendable."
Ms. Cookson and Mr. Hackworthy are the chairwoman and chairman of the 2001 annual conference of the planning group, which began yesterday at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. In another sign of the effect of the economy on Madison Avenue, the conference, which continues through tomorrow, is expected to draw 600 people, compared with about 900 last year.
"We started planning this in better economic times," Mr. Hackworthy said, "but we really have focused on the theme of accountability, which has become so much more the topic."
"Agencies are the people who make the ads," he added. "If we're about making communication work harder, we better know what it's all about.
"It's easy to say 'They like the ad, they buy the product,' " Mr. Hackworthy said, referring to consumers. "If only advertising worked that simply.
"Sometimes, advertising has to be persuasive, and sometimes there has to be a dialogue," he added. "And it's different based on whether the advertising is retail oriented, for packaged goods or business-to-business. It's not one size fits all."
The conference will feature speakers from the creative and media sides of agencies as well as from the account planning side; they include Ty Montague, co-creative director at the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy, and Rishad Tobaccowala, chief executive at Starcom IP in Chicago, the digital media services division of the Starcom MediaVest Group, owned by the Bcom3 Group.
There will also be speakers from outside the realm of advertising, who are to talk about the communication process.
They include Candace Bushnell, author of the book upon which the HBO series, "Sex and the City," is based, and the film director Oliver Stone.
Hmmmmmmmm. Ms. Bushnell and Mr. Stone, together with agency executives in Las Vegas. 
Is someone planning to buy the movie rights to the conference?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%) ADVERTISING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



413 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Don't Look Back

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Nearly six years ago I attended the Arab-Israeli economic summit in Jordan. (Remember? They used to do that.) I was seated in the press gallery just above the Israeli delegation, and as I looked down I saw a Kuwaiti businessman, in traditional Arab kaffiyeh headdress, mistakenly take a seat in the Israeli row, next to an Israeli delegate wearing a yarmulke. So as I looked down I saw this kaffiyeh next to this yarmulke. Nice.
 Had I not written about it at the time, I would have thought that it was all a dream -- now that the whole web of Arab-Israeli peacemaking is unraveling. Maybe the Oslo period was just a fantasy, although I'd be careful about such sweeping judgments. But what is certain is that if Israeli-Palestinian relations continue their violent downward spiral a lot more than Oslo will get buried. 
 "It won't just be the end of Oslo, it will be the end of the whole period that began with Anwar Sadat's trip to Jerusalem and the Camp David peace between Egypt and Israel," argues the Middle East expert Stephen P. Cohen. "We are heading back to a pre-Sadat era -- an era characterized by Israel's isolation from the Arab world, and the Arab world's isolation from the dominant trends in global economics and politics. The whole Sadat idea was that it was impossible to imagine a different Arab future without imagining a different Arab-Israeli future -- and that idea is what's now going up in smoke." 
What has never been understood by critics of the peace process was that it was always about something more than just Israeli-Palestinian peace. As long as there was a peace process that was basically moving forward, it was both a cover and an engine for a lot of other things: It empowered the Arab and Israeli business communities to push for more economic liberalization and integration with the global economy, it provided an impetus for secular, political voices who advocated more openness, modernization and democratization, and it put the most obscurantist religious forces somewhat on the defensive. No one should exaggerate these trends, because opposition forces were always arrayed against them. The point is, there was a struggle, and, with the peace process alive, the balance was tipped slightly toward the moderates, modernists and integrationists. Without it, the balance tips the other way.
This is due, in part, to Sadat's great mistake -- believing that just one decision, making peace with Israel, would trigger a transformation of Arab society, rain money on the region and overwhelm the retrograde forces. Peace with Israel was always necessary for that transformation, but not sufficient. It required a broad strategy for modernization, economic development, education and, ultimately, democratization.
But going back to the pre-Sadat era today -- in the age of globalization -- would make such transformations even less likely. It would mean, instead, three things: more small wars in the Middle East, fewer big wars, and more wars within states. It would mean more small wars because, unlike the pre-Sadat era, there are no longer two superpowers around to contain conflicts. It's now a wired world, in which super-empowered militants, armed with cell phones and miniaturized bombs, can blow up a U.S. destroyer in Yemen or a U.S. military compound in Saudi Arabia.
It would mean fewer big wars also because there aren't two superpowers around -- to arm and subsidize real wars. Arabs or Israelis would now have to pay cash for a real war, and the middle classes in all of these states do not want to pay with their money or their sons. That's why in the first Israeli-Palestinian war, in 1948, the surrounding Arab states sent seven Arab armies to intervene, and with this intifada they've sent seven Arab satellite TV networks.
But finally, it would mean the region would simply drift and stagnate, with the Arab world falling further and further behind the world at large in education, information technologies, economic growth and foreign investment. All of which will increase the possibility of internal wars and social explosions -- a la the unemployment riots in Egypt last week. 
Which is why the Bush team needs to understand that the Middle East doesn't necessarily need, or even want, peace -- but it needs and wants a peace process. Because Anwar el-Sadat was right about one thing: The parties can't produce a different future for themselves unless they are always working on, or at least seen to be working on, a different future between themselves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); RELIGION (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); KUWAIT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); JORDAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



414 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Aluminum Producer's Earnings Take a Tumble 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

 BODY:
Alcan, an aluminum producer based in Montreal, reported second-quarter earnings yesterday that were well below estimates.
 The results caused its stock traded in New York to fall 11 percent. 
 Although the company maintained its 2002 earnings forecast, it told analysts that this was conditional on a stronger economy, stable metal prices and favorable currency movements. 
Consolidated net income for the three months ended June 30 fell to $74 million, or 23 cents a share, from $153 million, or 70 cents, a year earlier.
Operating income was $105 million, or 33 cents a share, down from $144 million, or 66 cents a year earlier.
The consensus forecast among analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call was for earnings of 57 cents a share.
There was a nonoperating after-tax charge of $31 million, or 10 cents a share, related to the sale of a bauxite and alumina operation in Jamaica and tax changes.
Revenue totaled $3.16 billion, up from $2.03 billion a year earlier.
Alcan shares fell $4.65, to $39.11, on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
"There is an industry problem," said Victor Lazarovich of BMO Nesbitt Burns in New York.
Alcan said its shipments of rolled products in North America fell 3 percent in the year to date, compared with a 13 percent decline for the industry as a whole.
Travis Engen, Alcan's chief executive, told analysts yesterday that the company expected North American consumption to shrink 5 percent this year, with Europe showing a 1.1 percent increase and Latin America up 3.8 percent.
Total world consumption will be down about 1.9 percent from 2000 to 2001, Mr. Engen said. Three months ago, the company expected a 0.7 percent decline.
Third-quarter results, he said, will continue to reflect "the challenges of the economy" and lower metal prices, offset by continued operating gains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (93%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); TAX LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ALCAN ALUMINIUM LTD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (92%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%) SIC3334 PRIMARY ALUMINUM; 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



415 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Best Investment in Helping Poor Nations 

BYLINE:  By Paul H. O'Neill; Paul H. O'Neill is secretary of the Treasury.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With more than 1.2 billion of the world's people still living on less than $1 a day, there is no more important challenge than improving living standards and eliminating poverty. The World Bank and other multilateral development banks have a crucial role to play in meeting this challenge. To do so, they need to change their ways of doing business.
 Today President Bush will speak about how we might spread development and prosperity to other parts of the world. In addition to describing the benefits of trade expansion, the president will point out that the key to improving living standards in poor countries is to design development strategies that focus on economic growth. 
 Earlier this month in Rome, at a meeting of finance ministers, I had the opportunity to share ideas for improving the development banks with both officials of G-7 nations and heads of several of the banks themselves: the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank.
All of these development banks, whether they operate worldwide or regionally, try to use capital provided by richer nations to modernize the economies of the world's poor countries. But too often the millions or billions of dollars they have lent to finance development projects have not led to the hoped-for economic growth. To improve the lives of the poor significantly, these banks need to be more effective.
First and foremost, the development banks must focus their efforts on raising productivity growth in the developing world. Virtually all differences between rich and poor nations can be explained by differences in productivity -- the amount of goods or services each worker produces per hour of work. Higher productivity translates directly into higher incomes. To start, the banks should devote more resources to the development of human capital. Education is inextricably linked to improving living standards, and it is critical that the banks place greater emphasis on it. Over the past five years, education projects accounted for only 7 percent of total World Bank lending. My colleagues in Rome agreed that this must change.
The banks should also promote the right kinds of investments in physical capital. Not all capital investments are equal. Economic history has taught us, for example, that investing in agriculture while laying the foundation for diversifying into competitive, privately owned manufacturing is a key to development. Investments should support the production of real products for real customers in competitive markets: it is important that the banks do not induce countries to invest in business sectors that are already globally oversupplied.
Because a market economy relies on institutional bedrocks like the rule of law, enforceable contracts and a stable government free of corruption, the development banks should actively promote sound governance and public-sector management in borrowing countries. They should lend only to those with governments committed to meeting these standards.
The banks must also adopt a bolder, more aggressive stance on the use of outright grants of money, as well as loans. During the past two decades, many of the poorest nations became so highly indebted that now they are unable to make payments on their current loans, let alone borrow and pay back more. Grants are the right way to help an already heavily indebted country provide education, health, nutrition, water and sanitary needs for its poorest people and to help fight AIDS and other infectious diseases. Loans should be made only when there is an expectation that principal and interest will be paid back in full and on time.
Countries that do not have access to capital lent by private financial institutions are in the greatest need of the development banks' resources. As the financial conditions of individual countries improve, we should create a system of loan rates that moves toward the private-market interest rate. This will keep the development banks from competing with the private sector and help concentrate their lending on countries that lack access to the private financial markets.
Finally, it is essential that the multilateral development banks become more rigorous about measuring their own results. In education, to take an illustrative example, measuring inputs -- classrooms, teachers -- is secondary to measuring the product -- ability to read and write and compute at an appropriate level. Similarly, in assessing the performance of the development banks, we need to develop specific ways to assess progress toward development objectives; we must be hard-minded and demanding about the necessity that the money lent really produce results.
I strongly believe that the multilateral development banks can be more effective in promoting world economic development by focusing their knowledge and resources on improving the lives of the world's poor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (97%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); PRODUCTIVITY (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SECURITIES LAW (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (56%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%) SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



416 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: White House Unconcerned About China-Russia Accord 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
The Bush administration played down the importance of a friendship pact between Moscow and Beijing today, saying it represented short-term interests rather than a long-term strategy that should concern the United States.
 "This was clearly designed to boost both of their international standing without adding much real substance," said Richard L. Armitage, a deputy secretary of state. 
 China and Russia are leading the opposition to the Bush administration's plans for missile defense, and the administration recognizes that the impetus for today's show of cordiality in Moscow was prompted by this shared resistance. Both nations fear the missile defense system could undermine the deterrent power of their own nuclear arsenals. 
But there was never any consideration that the combined opposition to the missile defense plans would deter the administration from its overriding foreign policy goal, officials said. They stressed that the treaty, which falls far short of being an alliance, had been in the works for some time and came as no surprise. 
Although Beijing's leaders seemed more at ease with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, than with his predecessor, Boris N. Yeltsin, senior officials said the new treaty did not signify the sudden blossoming of a broad and deep relationship. Even at the best of times between Russia and China -- during the 1920's and then in the 1950's when Mao Zedong and Stalin signed a pact -- the strains were almost as prevalent as the mutual interests.
One administration official joked that the Chinese and Russians had known each other since 1300, but had enjoyed only 40 years of friendship through all the centuries.
"The conventional wisdom is that we are more important to each of them than they are to each other and that this is not a cause for concern," said Robert Suettinger, who was a senior adviser on China on the National Security Council during the Clinton administration. 
Of most interest to Washington are Russian arms sales to China, which have grown substantially in the past decade. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia has become China's largest supplier of weapons. Beijing has acquired what one senior official called "some significant pieces." These include four diesel electric Kilo class submarines, 48 SU 27 advance fighter jets, more SU 30 fighter jets and modern destroyers. 
"We watch what they do. What matters is when they sell military equipment," a senior official said. These sales were just as likely to proceed without a treaty, he suggested. 
Each side aspired to something different in today's signing, analysts said. For China, the treaty represented an ability to show that it could make an arrangement with another big power. Beijing also hoped to show that it could tug Russia away from its interests in Europe and bring it back toward the East. 
But in trying to cement this relationship in a treaty, Mr. Suettinger said both sides were using what he called "old thinking."
"This shows the classical Leninist thinking: Let's do an alliance of friendship. It suggests that in both places there is a preference for this stodgy analysis." 
The treaty also demonstrated that the leaders in Moscow and Beijing chose to emphasize "the myth that the United States is a hegemonic power, that this is a unipolar moment," Mr. Suettinger said. The signing today should not prevent either country from cooperating with the United States, but it could slow that cooperation, he said. 
For Russia, economic interests dominate as Mr. Putin struggles to get help for his struggling economy. But whether China can help as much as he wants is another matter. 
"Russia has become dramatically, dramatically less important to China than in the early 1980's," said Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of "Integrating China in the Global Economy," to be published in the fall. The economic relationship between China and Russia was now "weak and getting weaker," Mr. Lardy said. 
In 1999, for example, trade between the two countries was relatively small at $5.7 billion, Mr. Lardy said. To put this in context, Mr. Lardy said that China's share of world trade had almost quintupled from $20 billion in the late 1970's to $475 billion in 2000. Russia's trade with China had been shrinking over all, he said. It was unlikely that friendlier political ties would alter the economic differences. "There are limitations on the economic side," Mr. Lardy said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%) CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPE (79%) RUSSIA; CHINA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



417 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Alcoa Boss May Become A Man of Steel; 
Paul O'Neill Leads Effort For Bush Administration As It Weighs Trade Curbs

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
When Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill was chief executive of Alcoa, the world's largest aluminum company, a glut of aluminum had flooded the market and profits were falling. His solution? In 1994, he almost single-handedly persuaded the major aluminum-making nations to produce less. Aluminum prices rose and have remained high, and Mr. O'Neill is seen as the savior of that industry.
 Now he is trying to apply his magic touch to another metal -- steel. He is at the forefront of the effort by the Bush administration to aid the ailing United States steel industry and, just as with aluminum, he is promoting the idea of an international agreement to reduce global production. 
 In addition, he is solidly behind the administration's effort to investigate whether steel imports are hurting domestic steel makers, the first step to any steel-import restrictions. 
But just as aluminum is not steel, nor are the two industries the same. As a result, Mr. O'Neill may be bumping up against some hard realities as he begins his efforts.
Most importantly, where the aluminum industry is made up of several big companies that could more easily agree on global production cuts, the steel industry is fragmented among many smaller companies in dozens of countries. The United States accounts for only 12 percent of the world's production. With so many global players in so many places, it is more difficult to achieve an agreement -- and make it stick. By contrast, the United States accounted for more than 20 percent of the global aluminum output in 1994 and most of that came from one company, Alcoa. 
Still, Mr. O'Neill pursues his goal. This month, he raised the idea of steel-production cuts along with the threat of steel-import restrictions in a meeting of finance ministers in Rome.
"We have been struggling with the problem of the steel industry almost universally around the world for the better part of 40 years," Mr. O'Neill said in a statement provided by the Treasury Department while he was on vacation and unreachable for comment. "Perhaps by discussing the issues and coming into agreement on the facts, we can fashion a solution that would be better than the possibility of protective action."
But Mr. O'Neill's efforts are already coming under fire from trading partners like Japan and the European Union, which say the United States is trying to protect an aging industry that has done little to help itself. By contrast, they say they did the hard work in their countries to modernize their steel industries and do not understand why American steel makers cannot do the same.
"The facts will show that imports are not the problem with the U.S. steel industry," said Bertus Van Barlingen, trade counselor with the European Union in Washington. "The signals from the Bush administration have not been good. It is not good to come to discussions with a big stick waved over your head. We are disappointed about that."
Moreover, the Bush administration's emphasis on cutting imports comes as steel imports have fallen steadily for three years. In May, the month for which the most recent data is available, imports were 28 percent lower than a year earlier.
And, though it is seldom mentioned in the Washington debate, more than one-quarter of all steel imports are bought by American steel makers, who buy raw steel slabs from foreign makers and turn them into finished products like pipes and sheet metal for the domestic market. For this reason, steel makers only want to block entry of finished steel products and not limit slab imports -- making the industry appear more self-interested than principled.
The final reality facing the administration, a political reality, is that steel users -- automakers, construction companies and machine manufacturers -- vastly outnumber steel makers. While employment in steel-using companies is measured in the millions, the steel industry currently employs only about 150,000, down from 600,000 two decades ago.
Steel users have nowhere near the political strength of the steel industry and its unions. But users are beginning to organize and have lined up leading companies like Caterpillar, Emerson Electric and Michelin North America to lobby for them. And while they have yet to get a meeting with any high-level Bush administration official, they have begun to make the rounds in Congress. 
"Our concern is that we will not be able to obtain high-quality steel at world-competitive prices," said Jon Jenson, chairman of the Consuming Industries Trade Action Coalition, representing steel users. "We think restricting imports causes far more harm than good. It's a cure worse than the disease, and we are trying to make everyone aware of it."
Compared with aluminum users, steel users are a more formidable bunch. Far less aluminum is used domestically -- under 10 million tons compared with over 100 million tons of steel. And, since there are so few aluminum makers, aluminum users must stay in their good graces and not challenge them. 
Some steel users, like the Gentzler Tool and Die Company in Green, Ohio, say they are concerned about the administration's steel initiatives. Last year, for example, when the government imposed restrictions on the slit-rolled-coil steel that Gentzler uses to make parts for computers and household appliances, the price of these coils from domestic steel suppliers shot up 12 percent.
"We were affected in a big way," said James Evans, a purchasing agent for Gentzler. "Basically, the steel mills gouged us. With no steel coming in from the outside, our prices were higher than in 10 years. After the imports were allowed back in, prices dropped and the steel mills started crying."
There is much to cry about in the American steel industry, which is a shadow of its former self almost everywhere except in Washington politics. Despite modernization efforts, much of the industry is saddled with costly and outmoded open-hearth blast furnaces, the technology of a bygone era, and is barely staying alive.
In addition, the combination of a well-paid, unionized work force and a large number of retired steelworkers to support means the labor costs for American steel makers are among the highest in the world. The labor cost per metric ton of steel is $155 in the United States, compared with $138 a ton in Europe, $123 a ton in Canada and $69 a ton in Brazil.
In the last five years, 18 steel makers have sought bankruptcy protection. The only healthy segment in the industry are the modern minimills, which make finished steel products from recycled steel through a newer electric-arc process. Largely nonunionized, these minimills have steadily taken market share from big "integrated" mills, whose blast furnaces transform raw iron ore into finished steel.
"The big old steel companies are dying and there is no hope for them," said Robert Crandall, a steel-industry expert at the Brookings Institution. "They have a technology that is outmoded, uneconomic and will never be replicated. We don't need to protect domestic steel because it doesn't need protection. The large companies cannot be protected. They will die anyway."
So far, Mr. O'Neill's door has been open to the steel industry. A steady stream of members of Congress from steel-producing states have visited Mr. O'Neill to press the industry's case, as have steel executives and the leaders of the steelworkers' union. 
The main message is that the domestic steel industry can compete in the global marketplace, but foreign imports have pushed down prices to levels making it hard to turn a profit. The problem is not of technology, they say, but of global prices and overcapacity.
"Domestic steel companies are not earning the profit they deserve because of the onslaught of product from overseas," said Nancy Gravatt, a spokeswoman for the American Iron and Steel Institute, a trade organization. 
What Mr. O'Neill is trying to preserve is an ever-shrinking part of American business. The entire American steel industry has a market capitalization of $10 billion, the value of all outstanding shares of all steel companies. This pales against the market value of single companies like Microsoft at $369 billion or General Electric at $483 billion.
"Imports are not the primary issue facing the domestic steel industry," said Mark L. Parr, a steel analyst with McDonald Investments in Cleveland. "The industry should be focusing on costs, especially at some of the older mills, which are some of the highest-cost producers in the world."
When Europe faced similar problems in the 1990's, older, uneconomic facilities were closed, restructured and consolidated. About 730,000 steelworkers lost their jobs and steel-making capacity was reduced by 1.9 million tons. But Europe now has five of the world's 10 largest and most efficient mills, while no American company is in the top 10.
Part of the reason American companies have not undertaken the consolidation to gain economies of scale and shutter uneconomical plants is because of what the industry calls "legacy" costs. This is the enormous burden of pension and health care benefits for 700,000 retired workers and their dependents any new owner of a steel mill would inherit.
Right now, for example, the LTV Corporation, which filed for bankruptcy protection in December and is losing $1 million a day, is seeking to scale back retiree benefits, which it says cost $137 million a year. LTV's efforts face resistance from the United Steelworkers of America. The company has threatened to cease operations and fire its 7,700-person work force.
Leo Larkin, a steel analyst at Standard & Poor's, said the irony of the administration's initiative was that it might prevent a slow shuttering of facilities beginning to take place among marginal steel makers.
"It may have the effect of keeping a lot of uneconomical capacity alive," Mr. Larkin said. "The industry would be better off by letting uneconomical production cease."
Theories abound as to why the Bush administration -- so squarely on the side of free trade -- would make such a protectionist move. Some say it is to reward voters in the steel-making state of West Virginia, which President Bush narrowly won, and to woo voters in Pennsylvania, where he narrowly lost. Others say it is to win organized labor support as the administration seeks to gain "fast track" authority to easily negotiate trade agreements.
Had the president not acted, there was a good chance Congress would have. Just before President Bush announced his initiative, 220 members of the House co-sponsored legislation to impose steel quotas for five years and allow the Department of Justice to reject any merger that reduces jobs or eliminates steel-making capacity -- two goals of any merger.
"Consolidation is happening everywhere in the world," William Barringer, a Washington lobbyist for Japanese and Brazilian steel exporters, said. "U.S. steel had better start to aggressively address the issue because the bad mills are going to drag down the good ones."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on July 17 about efforts by Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill to aid the United States steel industry referred incorrectly to the use of open-hearth blast furnaces. Steel companies now rely on basic oxygen furnaces to transform raw iron ore into steel; they do not rely on open-hearth furnaces. The last such furnace closed in 1991.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steel users, like the Gentzler Tool and Die Company in Green, Ohio, above, oppose restrictions on imports, which can increase their costs. Right, a Nippon Steel worker in Japan loads steel coils for the company's export market. (Associated Press); (Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, left, met with other finance officials in Rome earlier this month. A plant, below, built in 1997 by AK Steel in Rockport, Ind., won a quality award from Ford Motor earlier this year. (Reuters)(pg. C17) Chart: "Trying to Hold Back the Tide"Despite lower prices for domestic finished steel, imports have been gaining market share over the past decade. And even though finished steel imports have dropped from their peak in 1998, steel producers in the United States are seeking protection from foreign rivals. Chart shows finished steel imports, imported finished steel as percentage of consumption and price of hot-dipped galvanized steel* since 1992. *One of the most common types of finished steel products, used in products like automobile bodies.. (Sources: American Iron and Steel Institute imports and share of consumption ; Willkie Farr & Gallagher steel prices based on Census Bureau and Purchasing magazine data ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); MINING OUTPUT (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (90%); AA (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%)

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



418 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Nurse Shortage Puts a Premium on Staff Agencies

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
HOSPITALS across the country are struggling with an acute shortage of nurses, but the hospitals' problem is a big opportunity for a handful of nurse staffing companies. 
 These companies recruit thousands of traveling nurses who typically agree to work in hospitals on 13-week contracts. Thousands of other nurses take temporary work for a daily rate, often through a local, mom-and-pop employment agency. 
 Nurse staffing is a lucrative corner of the rapidly growing health care economy. Hospitals paid $7.2 billion last year for temporary employees, mainly nurses, according to The Staffing Industry Report, an industry newsletter. And spending on medical staffing is likely to increase more than 20 percent a year, it says, to $8.7 billion in 2001 and $10.6 billion next year. 
Now, despite depressed share prices on Wall Street, two companies that dominate the traveling nurse business are planning initial public offerings of stock. Cross Country, which says it is the largest provider of traveling nurses, filed an I.P.O. registration statement last Wednesday. And AMN Healthcare, which may soon overtake Cross Country, filed yesterday. Together, they have about 80 percent of the traveling nurse business. 
Barring unexpected snags at the Securities and Exchange Commission, the two companies will each make presentations to investors after Labor Day and sell stock by early October. Company officials would not comment, citing S.E.C. rules.
Cross Country, based in Boca Raton, Fla., hopes to raise about $143 million, or $20 to $25 a share, valuing the company at approximately $500 million, according to an analysis of the S.E.C. filing. AMN's offering is expected to be about the same size, according to people close to the company. AMN, which includes American Mobile Healthcare, and Cross Country were attracted to the public markets by the performance of the RehabCare Group, the only publicly traded company that gets most of its income from nurse staffing. 
Last year, RehabCare, based in St. Louis, was the top performing stock on the New York Stock Exchange, rising 384 percent, to $52.50 a share on Dec. 2 before ending the year at $51.375. The company raised nearly $50 million in a secondary offering last March 14. 
Analysts argue that many health care businesses stand to benefit from growing demands for care from aging baby boomers. Three of the six I.P.O.'s with the best returns in the second quarter were specialized health care companies, according to Hoover's a business information firm. Shares of Select Medical, which operates physical rehabilitation clinics, rose 111 percent; United Surgical Partners International, an operator of walk-in surgery centers, rose 71 percent, and Unilab, which runs clinical laboratories, rose 58 percent. 
As for nursing, as more nurses reach retirement age the next 20 years, the shortage will worsen, according to a study published last year in The Journal of the American Medical Association by Peter I. Buerhaus, a researcher and associate dean at the Vanderbilt University School of Nursing, with Douglas O. Staiger and David I. Auerbach. 
"It's not just a short-term trend," said James D. Forbes, a health care investment banker at Merrill Lynch, who advised RehabCare and other companies in the industry.
Rehabcare, which is predicting 20 to 25 percent earnings growth this year, fell 15 cents yesterday to close at $49.94. 
RehabCare draws on a national roster of per diem nurses -- those working for a daily rate -- for 80 per cent of its nurse staffing business. But Alan C. Henderson, the chief executive, said RehabCare's traveling nurse unit, which accounts for the rest of its nurse staffing business, was growing more rapidly. Nurse staffing generated about 57 percent of RehabCare's $153 million in first quarter sales. The company also runs rehabilitation and skilled nursing units for hospitals.
Large private equity funds have been investing in the nurse staffing business for several years. Charterhouse Equity Partners, based in New York, helped executives of Cross Country buy the staffing unit of W. R. Grace for $190 million in July 1999. Six months later, Cross Country was merged with Travcorps, a staffing business owned by Morgan Stanley Private Equity and Travcorps employees, who acquired the company for about $111 million in 1995.
Haas Wheat & Partners, an equity fund based in Dallas, has a stake in AMN, based in San Diego. Another equity fund, the Carlyle Group, helped Intelistaf, a privately held company based in Oakbrook, Ill., buy the staffing business of Gentiva Health Services for $65 million last fall. "We like the business," said Bob Dahl, head of health care at the Carlyle Group, which manages $12 billion of private equity capital. 
Bankers will be busy arranging more mergers and acquisitions in the nurse staffing niche over the next two years, said Randy Mehl, a health care analyst at Robert W. Baird securities in Milwaukee. 
The traveling nurse companies charge the hospitals $40 to $50 an hour, and more in high-cost cities. The companies pay for apartments and other amenities, including liability insurance and health benefits for nurses who work a minimum number of weeks. They keep extensive databases on the certificates and credentials held by the skilled nurses who are in the greatest demand.
Hourly pay for the nurses average between $20 and $30 an hour. They can often pick their region, for example, Florida, Arizona and California in cold weather. "It's all about how you attract the nurses," said Vikram Malik, an investment banker at Banc of America Securities who is an adviser to staffing companies. 
The nursing shortage is at the heart of the staffing companies' prospects, but it is also a risk. "Currently we are unable to recruit enough nurses to meet our clients' demands," which is a drag on potential growth, Cross Country said in its S.E.C. filing. Competition for nurses is intense, it added, pushing up costs and potentially squeezing profits.
In fact, Cross Country, RehabCare and AMN are all eager to import foreign nurses to meet demand. But the nursing shortage is international, and there is even talk in the industry of sending American nurses abroad to English-speaking countries like Britain and Australia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (96%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (91%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (87%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); AGING TRENDS (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (68%); US LABOR DAY (65%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (60%); AGING (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; NURSING AND NURSES; SHORTAGES; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: OCTOBER CO INC (67%); KINDRED HEALTHCARE INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); UNITED SURGICAL PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%) CROSS COUNTRY STAFFING (CO); AMN HEALTHCARE 

TICKER: KND (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (67%); NAICS623110 NURSING CARE FACILITIES (SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES) (53%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (53%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (51%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (51%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (51%)

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



419 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
$25,000? I'm Leaving Today

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
THE modest proposal in last week's column for easing New York's housing crisis -- use a computerized system like Priceline.com to arrange buyouts of rent-regulated tenants -- provoked a deluge of mail, mostly enthusiastic. "I would leave in a New York minute if offered a buyout," wrote one of the many tenants willing to leave town for the right price. Landlords rhapsodized about getting rid of rich tenants paying low rents. A developer in the Poconos wrote to tell New Yorkers that a $25,000 buyout would make a fine down payment on one of his spacious homes.
 But there were complaints, of course. Lawyers who now negotiate buyouts objected to being replaced by a computerized arbitrator. Some landlords angrily vowed never to buy back their own property and said they were holding out for the end of rent control. (Good luck.) Some tenants denounced the notion of leaving New York and vowed never to take a buyout. (Fine, stay. The buyouts would be for only those who wanted them.) 
 The chief complaint from tenants was that the vacated apartments would be too expensive. "After landlords have paid out all that money to tenants," Miriam Laskin wrote, "are these same landlords going to offer the apartments they've just 'bought back' from the tenants to anyone who isn't wealthy?" Dr. Laskin, a librarian who lives in a rent-stabilized apartment in Gramercy Park, predicted that the rent on her two-bedroom apartment would rise to at least $3,000 per month, triple what she pays.
Most vacated apartments probably wouldn't cost that much, because most neighborhoods are less expensive than Gramercy Park. But rents would indeed rise. Landlords can raise the rent at least 20 percent when an apartment is vacated, and Dr. Laskin's apartment could go up to $3,000 if her landlord did a major renovation and removed it from rent regulation. Such a change, many tenants complained, would be a loss to the city's stock of affordable housing.
But how would that loss affect anyone? Right now the apartment isn't available to anyone but Dr. Laskin. If she were ready for a buyout, what public good would be served by keeping her in an apartment she no longer wanted? It wouldn't help any other apartment-seeker. It would merely delay the day of her exit, at which point the landlord would raise the rent anyway. 
So the buyout certainly wouldn't deprive New Yorkers of affordable housing. And even if that $3,000-per-month apartment is beyond most people's reach, everyone benefits indirectly from a process known to housing theorists as filtering. If, say, a stockbroker moved into Dr. Laskin's apartment, he would be leaving a slightly worse apartment available for someone else, who in turn would be moving out of a slightly cheaper place, and so on, until the chain affected low-income tenants.
An increase in the supply of vacant apartments would push down the market prices across the city. In fact, as several landlords and economists noted, the biggest obstacle to the buyout scheme could be landlords' fear of falling prices. They're so used to a tight market that they wouldn't know what to expect from a surge of vacancies.
MANY of the landlords and tenants who wrote were especially fond of having the city subsidize the buyouts. You could call that idea an unfair windfall for certain landlords and tenants. But then, you could say that about every other program proposed by the mayoral candidates to add housing. They typically plan to spend $50,000 per dwelling, and that doesn't even include all the tax breaks, gifts of city land and other subsidies. 
A buyout program could be much cheaper, according to landlords and lawyers who currently negotiate such deals. Dan Margulies, executive director of the Community Housing Improvement Program, a trade association of building owners, estimated that the average buyout today costs the landlord about $25,000 in Manhattan, and half that amount in the other boroughs. 
Some buyouts are much higher, and some tenants would never settle, but we're not trying to make a deal with all tenants. Buying off just a small percentage would make a huge impact, and the city could close a lot of deals by offering just a small subsidy -- say, by promising to add 20 percent to the landlord's offer. 
That would average out to less than $5,000 per dwelling, a pittance compared with other housing plans. But while tenants have reacted enthusiastically, the politicians and advocates who claim to represent tenants' interests have been notably silent so far. They don't call. They don't write. What could be stopping them? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENT CONTROL (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%) HOUSING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION 

COMPANY: PRICELINE.COM INC (58%)

TICKER: PCLN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



420 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
4 Salt Lake City Charges Dismissed

BYLINE:  By JO THOMAS 

 BODY:
A federal judge threw out 4 of 15 felony charges in the Salt Lake City Olympics bribery case yesterday and indefinitely postponed the July 30 trial of Thomas K. Welch and David R. Johnson, who were indicted last year in the vote-buying scandal that had threatened the future of the Olympic Games. 
 United States District Judge David Sam, the senior judge in the District of Utah, said the Utah commercial bribery law on which the federal racketeering charges were based is "ambiguous and unconstitutionally vague as applied in this case." His ruling set aside the recommendations of the federal magistrate, Judge Ronald N. Boyce, who had been hearing the case. 
 Welch and Johnson, who led Salt Lake City's successful effort to win the 2002 Winter Games, said yesterday that they were delighted with the judge's ruling and that they hoped he would dismiss the remaining charges. Chris Watney, a spokeswoman for the Department of Justice, said the department was "reviewing the judge's order and considering our options for an appeal." 
In his ruling, Judge Sam said he would explain his reasoning more fully in a memorandum he would issue later. He said he intended to study other issues raised by the defendants and might call a hearing on their request that he dismiss the remaining 11 counts.
The former Olympic organizers are still charged with a count of conspiracy and 10 counts of defrauding the Salt Lake City bid and organizing committees by mailing and wiring money to International Olympic Committee members and their families in their successful effort to win votes for Salt Lake City, which will be host of the Winter Games in February. The four counts rejected by the judge yesterday charged Welch and Johnson with violating the federal Travel Act by traveling between states and overseas while violating the state law.
In a hearing last week, the judge questioned why federal prosecutors were making the Olympic bribery scandal a federal case, observing that they had brought felony charges based on a Utah law that makes it a misdemeanor to offer or take bribes or kickbacks in business affairs.
"Why not let the state prosecutors determine that?" the judge said. State prosecutors had declined to bring a case under Utah law. Utah's attorney general, Jan Graham, told The Associated Press in February that her office did not find evidence that Welch and Johnson had committed a crime.
The Salt Lake Tribune expressed its hope in an editorial that the judge's questions and comments "are a signal that the curtain is coming down on this legal circus." The editorial contended that "Utah's commercial bribery statute is a misdemeanor, and to use it as a base for 11 federal felony counts is the kind of stretch that the tyrants of England once achieved with the rack." Welch, 56, was president of the Salt Lake City bid committee. Johnson, 42, was its vice president. A federal grand jury indicted them last July on charges of conspiring to bribe members of the I.O.C., which selects the host cities for the Winter and Summer Games, with $1 million in cash, scholarships, travel, gifts and medical care. Both men have rejected plea deals.
In a statement issued yesterday, Welch and Johnson said that they believed the court's ruling "confirms what we have said from the beginning: we committed no crime." The statement went on: "The Salt Lake bid committee conducted its bid consistently with the advice we were given and the conduct of other successful bid cities."
William W. Taylor, the Washington lawyer who represents Welch, said yesterday that he hoped the charges of conspiracy and fraud would also be thrown out, contending that the bribery charges that were dismissed were "the heart of the Olympics bribery case."
Taylor said: "The conspiracy and fraud charges are that these men made illegal payments and then covered them up. If the conduct is not illegal, these are not bribes. The theory that they made illegal payments and covered them up does not hold up."
Max D. Wheeler, the Salt Lake City lawyer who represents Johnson, said: "The whole purpose of the bid committee and these defendants was to influence the votes of I.O.C. members to get Salt Lake City awarded the Winter Games. That is what they accomplished. We find it strange the government would accuse them of fraud for accomplishing the goals they set out to accomplish."
Welch and Johnson were the fourth and fifth people to be prosecuted in the Salt Lake City scandal. David Simmons, a Salt Lake City businessman, pleaded guilty to tax offenses related to a sham telecommunications job provided to Kim Jung Hoon, the son of Kim Un Yong, a powerful I.O.C. delegate from South Korea who yesterday finished second in voting for the I.O.C. presidency. The son, known as John Kim, was also indicted. He surrendered his green card, returned to South Korea, and has denied any wrongdoing.
Alfredo La Mont, formerly in charge of international relations for the United States Olympic Committee, pleaded guilty to tax charges related to payments he secretly received from the Salt Lake City bid committee for his effort as a consultant to help secure the 2002 Games.
Salt Lake City had tried and failed for 30 years to get the Winter Olympics as part of a broad economic development plan to build a winter tourism industry. After losing the 1998 Games to Nagano, Japan, by four votes, the campaigners in Salt Lake City said they changed strategies and decided to court the I.O.C. with attention, personal favors and money -- anything to get the Games.
The series of disclosures in late 1998 and early 1999 about Salt Lake City's plan to win votes through lavish spending and gift giving to I.O.C. delegates severely damaged the Olympic movement and the credibility of the committee. Ten delegates either resigned or were forced out in the wake of the scandal. Since then, it has been disclosed that similar practices occurred in Atlanta, which secured the 1996 Summer Olympics; in Nagano, Japan, which was host to the 1998 Winter Games; and in Sydney, Australia, which won the 2000 Summer Games.
About 30 of the I.O.C.'s 114 delegates were linked to improprieties in bidding processes for those Games. The I.O.C. subsequently instituted a policy that prohibits most of the members from visiting cities seeking to stage the Olympic Games.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas K. Welch, ex-president of the Salt Lake City bid committee. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (94%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); BRIBERY (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); FELONIES (90%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); VERDICTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ETHICS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%) OLYMPIC GAMES; ETHICS; BRIBERY; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS) 

COMPANY: KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: DAVID S JOHNSON (79%) THOMAS, JO; SAM, DAVID (JUDGE); WELCH, THOMAS K; JOHNSON, DAVID R 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (97%) UTAH, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (50%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



421 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
Umpires Might Unite On Strike-Zone Issue

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
Major league umpires do not have to be told that in unity there is strength; they learned that fact of labor life long ago. They have also learned from their experience of the past couple of years what the absence of unity can mean. Their problem is they don't know how to regain the unity they had before the Richie Phillips war.
 It has been two years since the umpires' strong labor position began decaying. On the day after the All-Star Game in 1999, Phillips, their labor leader, convened the umpires at a meeting in Philadelphia and proposed a strategy that he said was designed to get Major League Baseball negotiators to the bargaining table sooner rather than later. 
 But no sooner had the umpires left the room, leaving signed letters of resignation behind, than the strategy began unraveling. A fight for control of the union ensued, the insurgents won, Phillips was ousted and a new union was in place.
The new union, however, has not attracted all 67 umpires. Its membership roll lists 46 umpires; 21 remain aloof, still bitter over the actions of the group led by John Hirschbeck, the president of the new union. Not that the 21 are not welcome to join the World Umpires Association.
"I hope all the time that a day will come when we can all get back together," Hirschbeck said yesterday. "I constantly tell my members to reach out to those guys."
Their reach, however, has not overcome the grasp the 21 umpires continue to have on the memories of 1999. 
"The group unanimously voted for the job action," an umpire said yesterday. "We all agreed. When we broke from that room, guys went in different directions."
Although the bitter feelings remain, the umpires have found one issue on which they agree. Across faction lines, they appear to be unified in their reaction to the pitch-count caper. 
Sandy Alderson, the official in the commissioner's office who initiated the return to the rule-book strike zone, says the umpires are wrong if they believe they have been asked to manipulate the number of pitches thrown in games, but the umpires, right or wrong, have expressed outrage at recent instructions to call more strikes." I know this issue is something umpires are unanimous about," Hirschbeck said.
If they are, they could use it to become unanimous again in their labor relationship. It would be no easy feat to pull off, but pitch counts could trigger a return to the unified strength umpires used to have.
The umpire who recalled the 1999 debacle was highly skeptical that it could happen.
"Trust becomes a big factor," he said. "We all trusted each other that day that we were together. In previous years, when we were on the street, we trusted each other and stuck together. In '99 we didn't. It's a mess. The biggest problem with this whole thing is trust. How do you get that trust back?"
The umpires need a conciliator, a wise man who could bring the two factions together. One man stands out. His name is Fay Vincent, the former baseball commissioner, a man who has always championed the umpires.
Whether or not his position had anything to do with the fact that his father was a football referee, among other things, Vincent treated the umpires better than any other baseball official before or since. He worked to improve the economic standing of minor league umpires, too. In retirement, he laments the plight of the umpires and how baseball has allowed the position to fall into disrepute. "Like good players, good umpires make a difference," Vincent has said.
A veteran umpire recently said that umpires' morale was at a low. In leading the campaign to oust Phillips, Hirschbeck thought there could be a better way of negotiating with baseball management. But having nothing to do with pitch counts, the new constructive relationship Hirschbeck envisioned has not developed.
"They don't play fair," one umpire said. 
As long as the umpires remain divided into factions, they will never have the strength to induce baseball to play fair. Both factions recognize that reality, but they seem to be powerless to do anything to change the status quo. 
Jerry Crawford, the last president of the old union, has been busy in recent months trying to help negotiate a settlement that would end the plight of the umpires whose resignations were accepted in 1999. 
"They've come close a couple times, but they're nowhere now," one official said.
Crawford declined an interview request yesterday, so he could not be asked if he would be willing to use the pitch-count crisis as a possible way of crossing the gap and at least talking to the other side, with Vincent, or someone else, in the room. 
"If you have a group that is divided on a lot of things and something happens which reminds them of their common interest," a lawyer involved in sports labor said, "that could overcome their division."
Pitch counts and Fay Vincent might make a winning combination. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STRIKES (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%) BASEBALL; UMPIRES; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



422 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: All Languages, All the Time, And All Over the Suburban Dial 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
At daybreak in central New Jersey, Indian professionals wake up to live Hindi prayers on the radio. At midday on Long Island, lonely Chinese immigrants confide in the host of a popular radio program called "Happy Family." At dusk in the Hudson Valley, Polish-Americans absorb the latest news from Warsaw on Rockland County's only talk-radio station, which is all Polish, all the time.
 Though most radio stations that cater to specific ethnic groups attract just a smidgen of the audiences who tune in to, say, Howard Stern, they are increasingly popping up in the far corners of the New York metropolitan area, reflecting both the growing diversity of suburbia and changes in the radio business. 
 Ethnic broadcasters are settling in the suburbs in part because a New York City station can cost more than 10 times as much as a suburban one. Moreover, they can tap into an expanding pool of suburban immigrants, while occasionally reaching the city's ethnic enclaves. 
Guided by local hosts who function as cultural bridges, these stations are also slaking immigrants' thirst for round-the-clock news, interaction and entertainment from their native lands at a time when immigrants, in city and suburb, are transforming the New York region. 
"Ethnic is big, and there's been an explosion of ethnic radio in New York in the last few years," said Zev J. Brenner, president of Talkline Communications Network, a Jewish television and radio network in Manhattan that has helped several ethnic groups lease or buy radio and television stations. "If you're flicking around in the suburbs, you can probably hear more ethnic radio than you can in Manhattan or Brooklyn or Queens."
New York's changing radio landscape mirrors the trends in Chicago, Los Angeles, Washington and other diverse cities, where listeners can stumble upon stations broadcasting in Arabic, Vietnamese or Korean. And this does not even include the many Spanish stations, which have become mainstream powerhouses, and West Indian and other ethnic English-language programming.
Such variety is a far cry from what used to constitute ethnic programming: renting an Italian hour here, a German hour there, on a weekend afternoon, on someone else's station.
These days, of course, listeners can find plenty of Spanish programming on major stations, like WSKQ-FM (97.9), known as Mega, which has the seventh-highest Arbitron ratings in New York City. WPAT-AM (930), once the epitome of easy listening, is now a multiethnic smorgasbord of Russian, Spanish and Caribbean programming. And many stations still reserve weekend slots for foreign-language programs.
But in recent years, ethnic broadcasters have begun to lease or buy their own tiny stations in the suburbs. Just in the last few months, a Korean company has agreed to buy WGSM-AM (740), a station in Huntington, N.Y., that plays Sinatra and his contemporaries.
Shifting demographics have contributed to the interest in ethnic broadcasting, said Tom Taylor, editor of M Street Daily, a radio newsletter. According to the 2000 census, some suburban counties had percentage increases in minority populations that exceeded even those registered in Queens. In New Jersey, the fastest-growing group was the Asian population, which rose by 77 percent.
Economics has been another important reason, particularly after the 1996 overhaul of the nation's communications laws allowed corporations to own multiple stations in a single market. Corporate consolidation has led to skyrocketing prices for radio stations in major markets. So while a weak-signal suburban station may cost $2 million these days, a station barely covering New York City may cost $30 million, said Gary Stevens, a radio station broker in Connecticut.
As a result, more than a dozen ethnic stations have emerged in the last decade or so in the suburbs, attracting audiences of 10,000 to 20,000 people, on average, with thousands more tuned in via the Internet, Mr. Taylor said.
The stations usually fall into three categories: AM and FM stations; subcarrier stations that share a frequency with a major station but require a special radio or subscription; and pirate stations, which sneak in some very local programming on empty frequencies and are more prevalent in Brooklyn and Queens.
In Elizabeth, N.J., Radio Restoration, WJDM-AM (1530), has been operating for seven years, and just two months ago expanded its religiously tinged Spanish programming to include weekends. With a small 5,000-watt signal that reaches from Trenton to the Bronx, the station, which originates from a church called Ministerio Puerta de Paz, sometimes broadcasts Sunday services.
"Prisoners call from the Union County Jail," said Alicia Reynoso, the station's coordinator. "They are very lonely sometimes. They say: 'Can you contact my wife? Can you teach me about the Bible?' "
Another religious station is Radio Bonne Nouvelle in Asbury Park, N.J., WYGG-FM (88.1). Reaching perhaps 20,000 people in a 20-mile radius, the Haitian-American station, which began in 1991, offers tips in Creole on immigration, Social Security and community events. "In the city, people don't have to travel far to get what they need," said Hermann Larose, the station's administrator. "In the suburbs, it's different."
In Metuchen, N.J., EBC Radio, WCNJ-FM (89.3), which began three years ago, now segues from morning prayers to daytime quiz shows and nighttime song dedication programs. The disc jockeys often banter in a mix of English and Indian languages, said Kulraaj Anand, the station's director.
At a recent live broadcast outside Andhra Bhavan, a new restaurant in Iselin, N.J., Mr. Anand and other radio personalities handed out prizes, danced to the latest Indian pop hits and promoted an Indian concert in Plainfield, N.J. One passer-by, Avi Kulkarni, said he called the station recently to dedicate a song to his wife. "I love it," said Mr. Kulkarni, a software engineer who lives in Edison, N.J. "I listen to it every day."
On Long Island, the Chinese Radio Network bought WGBB-AM (1240) in Freeport in late 1999, replacing a varied format of popular standards and multiethnic talk and music. Before that, the Chinese broadcasters had been based in Queens and delivering Mandarin programming over a subcarrier signal.
The station's regular lineup includes news programs on China and Taiwan, radio soap operas and call-in shows dominated by issues of health and the elderly. And though the station can reach Queens, Brooklyn and Staten Island, it wants to lease or buy another small station, probably in central or South Jersey, said Josephine Chain, the station's owner and general manager.
"Obviously, we want the largest station to cover the city and the suburbs," said Ms. Chain, a former D.J. in Taiwan. "But now, the big stations are very, very expensive."
In Patchogue, N.Y., WLIM-AM (1580), a longtime haven for popular standards, was bought in May by Polnet, a Chicago company that also operates WRKL-AM (910) in the Rockland County village of Pomona. As a result, Polnet now broadcasts its all-Polish programs to both northern New Jersey and the Hudson Valley, as well as eastern Long Island and southern Connecticut, said Kent D. Gustafson, the company's vice president and chief executive.
On a recent day at WRKL, the station's program director, Agnieszka Kaczkowska, was interviewing a group of high school students from Gdansk who had just won an international scholastic competition in College Park, Md. Just before the students arrived, the station broadcast its daily "Vatican Report" live from Rome. Inside the studio, one of the clocks was set to Warsaw time.
The only reminder of WRKL's previous incarnation as an English-only station three years ago was an indigo mug holder that read: "Rockland News, Rockland Talk."
Actually, WRKL and WLIM are not the only local radio stations in Polish. There is also a Polish subcarrier station in Fort Lee, N.J. In fact, there are more subcarriers than commercial stations broadcasting in foreign languages throughout the region, said Ralph Sorbara, president of Sound City Electronic Corporation in Bayonne, N.J., which makes the specialized radios necessary to capture the subcarrier signal.
In recent years, Mr. Sorbara has manufactured radios for more than a dozen ethnic broadcasters, including an Iranian subcarrier in Port Washington, N.Y., a Russian one in Fort Lee and three Colombian ones in Queens.
"Many of these people, they have little command of the English language, said Jouhard Nicolas, the founder of Radio Verite, a Haitian subcarrier in South Orange, N.J. "They need to adjust to the American way of life; that's why they're tuned to their radio 24/7."
The immigrants are not the only ones who are paying attention. Bret D. Schundler, the Republican candidate for New Jersey governor, has chatted on Radio Pinoy USA, WRMN-FM (88.3), a Filipino subcarrier station in Bloomfield, N.J., that emphasizes news and talk. And the Democratic candidate, James E. McGreevey, has called to schedule an appearance, too, said Lino Celle, the station's owner.
So far, ethnic stations have not elicited criticism from residents unhappy with losing their old stations, although a few Rockland residents initially protested WRKL's switch. And eventually, more ethnic stations may introduce bilingual programming to appeal to children and grandchildren of immigrants.
But for now, the stations are enjoying their new niche.
"At the beginning, I was afraid that no one would listen," said Jola Naklicka, whose bubbly morning show on WRKL began two months ago. "Then you realize there are so many people getting up. And people tell me it's so great that there's a Polish station. They miss their language, their country, everything."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Pomona, N.Y., students from Gdansk visit the all-Polish WRKL-AM (910). (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Kulraaj Anand, center, recently led a live broadcast with fans of WCNJ-FM (89.3) outside Andhra Bhavan, a restaurant in Iselin, N.J.. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Chart: "Regularly Scheduled Programming"Chart shows new radio stations catering to specific ethnic audiences are tuning up in the New York area. HAITIAN NEWS, TALK AND ENTERTAINMENTWYGG-FM (88.1)Asbury Park, N.J. INDIAN ENTERTAINMENTWCNJ-FM (89.3)Metuchen, N.J. RUSSIAN NEWS AND CULTURE*WRBS-FM (100.3)Fort Lee, N.J. KOREAN NEWS, TALK AND ENTERTAINMENTWGSM-AM (740)Huntington, N.Y. POLISH TALKWRKL-AM (910)Pomona, N.Y. CHINESE NEWS TALK AND ENTERTAINMENTWGBB-AM (1240)Freeport, N.Y. SPANISH RELIGIOUSWJDM-AM (1530)Elizabeth, N.J. *Shares a frequency with another major station.(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); CITIES (74%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (61%) RADIO 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); POLAND (88%); INDIA (58%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



423 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: From N.B.A. Courts to the Halls of Politics; 
A Life That Started in Caribbean Poverty Turns Toward Albany Lobbying

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 16 

 BODY:
In 1990, Adonal Foyle saw his future and dreaded it. With an eighth-grade education, living on a tiny Caribbean island that had neither electricity nor running water, his likeliest fate was to become a fisherman.
 His life since then has been made of stuff that, if written as fiction, would be rejected as absurd. Introduced to basketball at age 15, Mr. Foyle became, in order, athlete, immigrant, star, scholar, National Basketball Association player, labor activist and, soon, United States citizen. 
 Now, add another improbable activity to the list: crusader for campaign finance reform. 
With the help of the American college professors who are his surrogate parents, Mr. Foyle has created Democracy Matters, a group dedicated to limiting the influence of money in politics, backing it up with some fraction -- he will not say how much -- of his N.B.A. millions. Focusing on recruiting college students to the cause, the group has created chapters on 16 campuses, most of them in New York, and has hopes of adding many more, with the help of Mr. Foyle's visits.
On Tuesday, he is scheduled to make his first lobbying trip, to the state Capitol, where he will meet with lawmakers and hold a news conference with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and others in support of campaign finance legislation. The visit is meant to draw attention rather than make real news; it is not every day that a 6-foot-10-inch professional athlete surfaces with a cause in Albany. But he is deadly serious about his subject.
"It's the one issue that connects all the other issues," said Mr. Foyle, 26, asserting that environmental, labor and other causes would benefit from limits on campaign contributions and spending. "This is fundamental to our democracy."
Like most of the extraordinary events in his life, he shares credit for his new venture with Joan and Jay Mandle, the decidedly left-of-center academics who brought him to the United States and became his legal guardians. After years of taking part in their politically charged dinner-table debates, he recently expressed an interest in campaign finance.
"They immediately sent several books and a bunch of articles for me to read, so I'm going around the N.B.A., from plane to plane, with a computer and all these books in my hands," he said. "The players are looking at me like I'm certifiably nuts."
So far, Mr. Foyle said, he has discussed his interest in politics with just one or two members of his team, the Golden State Warriors. But he is determined to get other players to share his concerns, and envisions Democracy Matters sponsoring television and radio ads featuring professional players urging fans to register and vote.
His elders often say that young people are apathetic, but Mr. Foyle decided that they simply lacked a cause. So he set out to give them one. "If you organize students," he said, "you organize the future."
Democracy Matters took several of its newly designated campus coordinators last weekend to a conference at a hotel in Alexandria, Va., held by Public Campaign, an advocacy group devoted to public financing of campaigns, in hopes of inspiring them and teaching them organizing techniques.
"Incumbents can and do use their position to extract money from wealthy individuals who want legislative favors," Mr. Foyle said in an address to the conference. "We should not be surprised, only alarmed, when people refuse to participate in what they believe to be a rigged system."
Despite the grim words, his manner is disarming. He laughs frequently, mostly at himself; dispenses hugs readily; and cries easily. When chairs were in short supply for a workshop with student organizers at last weekend's conference, he plopped himself on the carpet.
Mr. Foyle is not the typical professional athlete, to say the least. When he talks of fighting discrimination, he cites, along with racial minorities, the rights of women and gays. He writes poetry (which he will not show to reporters). Despite turning professional after his junior year, he graduated magna cum laude from Colgate University with a degree in history, and he is working toward a master's degree at John F. Kennedy University, which, like his team, is based in the San Francisco Bay Area. An enthusiastic fan of the theater, he made an improbable Stanley Kowalski in a college production of "A Streetcar Named Desire."
His Golden State Warriors teammates sometimes hint that they see him as a bit of an oddball, but they have also made him their representative to the players' union, a sign of respect.
Mr. Foyle was born on Canouan, a speck of an island in the Caribbean nation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines. His father abandoned the family when he was 6, and then his mother left Canouan to find work. Adonal, his two sisters and his brother stayed on Canouan, population 500, with their grandmother.
At 15, it dawned on him that his only choices were to pass the entrance exam for secondary school or, like most of his peers, get a job.
"That was the real hurdle, the real turning point of my life," he said. "Then I start truly studying under the kerosene lamp and with candles, and my grandmother screaming about how expensive candles are. I just knew that this was my last chance."
He passed the test, and moved to Union Island for secondary school. He had never seen basketball played, but was soon recruited to play for both his school and a local club team. A few months later, he was playing in a tournament in Dominica, another island nation, where he met Jay Mandle, who was refereeing, and Joan Mandle, who was keeping score. Mr. Mandle, an economist, and Mrs. Mandle, a sociologist-anthropologist, had spent years studying and fostering the spread of basketball in the Caribbean.
"He was not the best player on the team, and the team was not the best in the tournament," Jay Mandle said.
"No, they were the worst," said Joan Mandle.
"They won a game."
"Yeah, they beat Grenada, but Grenada had a one-eyed point guard."
Still, they saw in Mr. Foyle enough raw talent to believe that basketball could be a ticket to a college education.
Within a few weeks, the couple had sponsored Mr. Foyle for entry to the United States. A year later, he was living with them in Hamilton, a town of 4,000 people in upstate New York and home to Colgate, where they were teaching. (Mr. Mandle remains at Colgate, while Mrs. Mandle left teaching a few years ago, worked on several political campaigns, and now works full time for Democracy Matters as its executive director.)
Mr. Foyle enrolled at Colgate, and while he was on the basketball team, it played in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament for the first time. He was named both a second-team all-American and an academic all-American, and was the Warriors' first-round draft choice in 1997.
His professional career has been the only part of his adult life lacking a fairy-tale gloss. The Warriors are one of the league's weakest teams, he has been set back by injuries, and he remains a reserve, playing forward and center.
But such challenges, Mr. Foyle says, pale next to what he has been through.
"I'm different from other players in that I had different challenges, and I've had these great resources at home," he said. Asked if his colleagues were apolitical, he said: "I don't think so. I'm certainly going to test that theory."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adonal Foyle, a Golden State Warriors reserve center, is financing Democracy Matters. He discussed politics Saturday at a convention in Alexandria, Va. (Associated Press); (Karen Ballard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); LOBBYING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GUARDIANSHIPS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (59%) DEMOCRACY MATTERS 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; FOYLE, ADONAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



424 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: 2 Large Banks Beat Estimates For Earnings; Another Slips 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
Lower interest rates bolstered second-quarter results at Citigroup and Bank of America even as their businesses showed some weakness from the softer economy. But Bank of New York, which has comparatively little exposure to lending, surprised investors with lower-than-expected earnings.
 Citigroup reported earnings before nonrecurring charges and accounting changes of $3.79 billion, or 74 cents a share, a penny ahead of analysts' expectations. It had net income of $3.5 billion, or 69 cents a share, compared with $3.34 billion, or 65 cents a share in the second quarter last year. 
 Citigroup benefited from its continued focus on cost control, with expenses growing just 1 percent, even though revenues increased 8 percent. The bank also announced a $133 million after-tax charge "for severance and other costs in connection with staffing reductions," signaling further cost cuts to come.
"This management team knows how to manage costs when the situation calls for it," said David Berry, head of research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, which specializes in the financial services industry.
Citigroup, based in New York, reported strong results in its consumer businesses, with earnings before nonrecurring charges up 19 percent from the period a year ago. The bank benefited from increases in mortgage financing and its credit card business. It is also ahead of schedule on integrating Associates First Capital, which it acquired last year. That helped lift earnings in Citigroup's consumer finance business nearly 40 percent.
Earnings at Citigroup's global corporate and investment banking division were $919 million, up just 2 percent from a year earlier. "Under the circumstances, investment banking results were reasonably strong," said Richard Strauss, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs. Citigroup's performance looks reasonably strong compared with some others on Wall Street, he said. Last month, Merrill Lynch warned that its net income would fall at least 25 cents a share short of what analysts had expected. 
Bank of America reported earnings of $2.02 billion, or $1.24 a diluted share, compared with $2.06 billion, or $1.23 a share in the period a year ago. This year's results were 6 cents ahead of analysts' expectations, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
"The consumer side has been very strong," said James H. Hance Jr., chief financial officer of Bank of America, in an interview yesterday. "For banks without exposure to that business, it can be a problem. It helps cover costs on the corporate side."
The bank's lending business has been hurt in recent quarters by large increases in problem loans. Bank of America's nonperforming assets amounted to 1.6 percent of total loans in the second quarter, compared with 0.97 percent a year earlier. 
Still, the bank's asset quality held up better than expected in the latest quarter, said Judah Kraushaar, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. Bank of America's nonperforming assets increased by 5 percent from the first quarter, which is much better than the 15 percent to 20 percent increase he had forecast.
"A lot of people have been worried about credit quality at Bank of America," Mr. Kraushaar said. "For the short term, they are reassured." Still, given that the economy is still weak, "the jury is still out for the second half of the year," he said.
Bank of America has successfully capitalized on consumers' hunt for a safe haven from the stock market. The bank's average deposits increased by 3 percent, with money market savings account balances rising 19 percent.
A benefit of lower interest rates was an increase in mortgage financings, which rose 26 percent.
Bank of America also gained market share in the corporate bond market. Its share of high yield bond underwritings nearly doubled, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data. For the first half of the year, Bank of America moved to fifth place, with 9.4 percent of the market, compared with ninth place, with 5 percent of the market a year ago.
Investors were clearly relieved at the results at both banks. Shares of Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., rose $1.13 yesterday, to $61.38 a share, while Citigroup's stock was up 29 cents, to $49.15 a share.
The story was different at Bank of New York, which derives most of its earnings from securities processing. The bank reported earnings of $385 million, or 52 cents a share, up 8 percent from the prior year, but a penny shy of analyst expectations, according to First Call. Investor disappointment led the bank's stock to fall $6.40, to $43 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%) BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (55%); ASSOCIATES FIRST CAPITAL CORP (54%); MERRILL LYNCH BANK & TRUST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC; BANK OF AMERICA; BANK OF NEW YORK 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



425 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Russia and China Sign A 'Friendship' Accord
Russia and China signed a treaty of "friendship and cooperation," binding the two giants closer in the next 20 years and committing them to oppose jointly much of the framework for international security that the United States is seeking to erect after the cold war, like a missile shield. The treaty also places Russia more firmly behind China's claim of sovereignty over the island of Taiwan and strengthens military cooperation. A1

The Bush administration played down the importance of the pact, saying it represented short-term interests rather than a long-term strategy of concern to the United States. A8

Russian Soldiers Punished
The Russian commander for Chechnya relieved a deputy of his duties and suspended two others following accusations that soldiers had looted, beaten and administered electric shocks during interrogations of civilians in two Chechen villages. A6

Bush Forgoes Cuba Sanction
President Bush said he would not activate the harshest sanction of a law that seeks to punish foreigners for investing in Cuban property confiscated by the Havana government. A8

India-Pakistan Talks Stalled
Negotiations between the nuclear-armed adversaries broke off with no substantive progress made on their conflict over Kashmir or on reducing the risks of a nuclear exchange. A1

Blood Ban Plan Upsets Europe
An American proposal under consideration by the F.D.A. to ban European blood imports as a precaution against mad cow disease has alarmed European suppliers, who say it will upset a cross-Atlantic system that provides blood to New York and cast suspicion on the safety of European blood. A1

Suicide Bombing in Israel
A Palestinian suicide bomber killed two soldiers, critically wounded a third and injured several others at a train station in the northern Israeli town of Binyamina. In response, Israeli tanks shelled Palestinian police posts near two West Bank cities. A3

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A12-17

Cheney Wants Navy to Pay His Home's Electric Bills
The White House, citing large and unpredictable energy bills, has asked Congress to shift the $186,000 electricity bill for Vice President Dick Cheney's official residence from the vice president's official budget to the Navy, which maintains the residence. Democrats denounced the idea. A1

Federal agencies have cut energy use this year and have begun to use creative conservation programs, an Energy Department report said. A14

President Bush warned against complacency in the face of falling gas prices, and Mr. Cheney headlined a Republican effort to promote the national energy strategy he shaped. A14

Water Pollution Rules Put Off
The E.P.A. said it would wait until at least 2003 before requiring states to adopt strict new water-pollution guidelines that were drafted by the Clinton administration and were to have taken effect last year. A17

Ruling on Medical Errors
A federal judge told Medicare officials to disclose findings whenever they investigate a consumer's complaint that a doctor or a hospital provided poor-quality care or committed injurious medical errors. A14

Millions of Votes Were Missed
A study of the 2000 presidential election by scientists from M.I.T. and the California Institute of Technology found that 4 million to 6 million votes of the 100 million cast last November were not counted. A15

No Trial for Bomb Suspect
An Alabama judge all but ended the prosecution of the deadly 1963 Birmingham church bombing case by ruling that the sole remaining defendant, Bobby Frank Cherry, was mentally incompetent for trial. A12

EDUCATION

Testing Plan Under Fire
Education officials across the country say coming federal requirements for annual reading and math tests threaten to undermine the testing systems that virtually every state has fashioned in the past decade. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Bloomberg Spending Tops All His Rivals' Combined
Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire businessman making his first foray into politics, has already spent more than $8 million of his own money in his bid for mayor. That is more than the combined expenditures of all four of the Democrats and one Republican vying against him. A1

A Confession of Murder
A Roman Catholic priest, the Rev. Joseph Towle, testified that in 1989 a man, now dead, confessed to him that he had killed a man whom two friends were convicted of murdering. They were sentenced to 15 years in prison, and the priest testified in a challenge to their convictions. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

University Admits Faults
Johns Hopkins University accepted responsibility for the death of a volunteer in an asthma experiment, saying the researcher who led the study and the committee that approved it had not taken proper precautions. A16

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B8

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES B7

SPORTS D1-8

New Olympics Chief
Jacques Rogge, 59, an orthopedic surgeon from Belgium and a former Olympian, succeeded Juan Antonio Samaranch as president of the International Olympic Committee. D1

Charges Trimmed in Salt Lake
A federal judge threw out 4 of 15 charges in the Salt Lake City Olympics bribery case and indefinitely put off the trial of Thomas K. Welch and David R. Johnson, who were indicted in the vote-buying scandal. D4

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Fuel Efficiency Report
A federal panel advising President Bush on fuel economy standards recommended in a draft report that the government require automakers to improve the mileage of new vehicles. It also said significant improvements could be made using inexpensive new engine technologies inexpensive. A1

Grim Outlook for Chip Makers
The semiconductor equipment industry will decline more than a third this year, and will not surpass last year's high sales levels until 2004, an industry group said. C1

Mixed Profit Reports for Banks
Lower interest rates bolstered quarterly results at Citigroup and Bank of America even as their businesses showed weakness from the softer economy. But Bank of New York, which has relatively little exposure to lending, surprised investors with lower-than-expected earnings. C1

USA Networks Buying Expedia
USA Networks will buy the three quarters of the Expedia travel agency owned by Microsoft, with the goal of creating a vacation shopping channel bridging television and the Internet to mirror its Home Shopping Channel. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Demanding a vote on reform; a missile shield road map; new man at the Olympic helm.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (63%); WATER POLLUTION (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); CUBA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



426 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: A Floridian, Not a New Yorker, Will Be the Ambassador to Rome 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN 

 BODY:
President Bush has decided to appoint a Florida developer and major Republican Party fund-raiser as ambassador to Italy, New York State and Republican officials said yesterday. It was a rebuff to Gov. George E. Pataki and Italian-Americans who had pushed for Mr. Pataki's economic adviser, Charles A. Gargano. 
 The ambassadorship in Rome, one of the government's plum patronage appointments, will go to Mel Sembler, who was finance chairman of the Republican National Committee during Mr. Bush's run for the presidency. Mr. Sembler, who became rich building shopping centers, has raised money for the Republicans for many years and was especially helpful in soliciting contributions for the two gubernatorial races of Jeb Bush of Florida. 
 Mr. Sembler and Mr. Gargano were both ambassadors under Mr. Bush's father, who appointed Mr. Sembler to Australia and Mr. Gargano to Trinidad and Tobago.
A Pataki spokesman, Michael McKeon, said White House officials told the governor last week that Mr. Sembler would get the post, The Associated Press reported. "We're disappointed," Mr. McKeon said. "We think Charlie Gargano would have been a great ambassador."
Bush administration officials declined to comment, but Republicans close to the administration said it appeared to be a done deal. And they said that the Bush administration ultimately favored Mr. Sembler because of his longstanding ties and service to the Bush family.
The Republicans said those factors were more important in securing Mr. Sembler the job than Mr. Gargano's past troubles. Mr. Gargano is chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, which was the subject of a two-year criminal investigation that ended without charges. As part of his bid for the Rome job, Mr. Gargano made sure that a letter from the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, clearing him reached the White House.
The National Italian American Foundation put forth Mr. Gargano's name along with four others, saying an Italian-American should be ambassador in Rome. The previous ambassador to Rome, Thomas Foglietta, fit that bill, but other predecessors have not.
New York voted heavily against Mr. Bush last year, and is likely to do so again in 2004.
A more curious facet of the decision was the White House's willingness to ignore the pleas of Mr. Pataki, who at one point brought his case directly to Karl Rove, the president's top political adviser. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); RETAILERS (55%) UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ITALIAN-AMERICANS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (59%) WAKIN, DANIEL J; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GARGANO, CHARLES A; SEMBLER, MEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%) ITALY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



427 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: A Panel Backed by Bush Urges Higher Fuel Efficiency for Cars 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 16 

 BODY:
A federal panel that President Bush has said will help him decide whether and how much to increase fuel economy standards has recommended in a draft report that the government require automakers to improve the mileage of new vehicles.
 The draft report also says significant improvements can be made using new engine technologies inexpensive enough to pay for themselves through savings on gasoline over the typical life of a vehicle. 
 The 13-member panel, appointed by the National Academy of Sciences, consists mainly of engineers and consultants who have worked for the auto and oil industries, along with some economists and retired oil executives. It does not include anyone from the environmental movement. Indeed, environmental and consumer groups have in recent months criticized the panel, fearing it would be biased toward the auto industry. 
The government has not raised fuel economy standards significantly since 1984. Ford Motor, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler have all pledged to improve the mileage of their sport utility vehicles. And a House subcommittee voted last week for a small increase in fuel economy standards for sport utility vehicles, pickups and minivans. 
But the federal panel argues that considerably greater improvements can be made without penalizing drivers financially, if the savings on gasoline are counted. 
The report does not recommend specific improvements in miles per gallon. But it states among its findings that the fuel economy of new vehicles, especially sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, could be raised by as much as 8 to 11 miles a gallon over the next 6 to 10 years, with the extra cost offset by the savings on gasoline over the typical 14-year life of the vehicle.
The report also takes aim at the way automakers have taken advantage of rules intended to encourage the use of ethanol. G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler are now producing close to a million vehicles that can burn either gasoline or nearly pure ethanol, so as to qualify for fuel-economy credits that allow these vehicles to count as though they achieved double or triple the fuel economy they actually produce.
Yet virtually none of these vehicles actually burn ethanol. Barely 1 in 1,000 service stations sell nearly pure ethanol and automakers have made little effort to tell consumers that they have bought vehicles that could burn nearly pure ethanol.
The report recommends that "credits for dual-fuel vehicles should be eliminated, with a long enough lead time to limit adverse financial impacts on the automotive industry."
A copy of the report's lengthy executive summary, 14 findings and six recommendations was provided to The New York Times by a person who wanted to make sure that the report received wide attention. The panel, headed by Paul R. Portney, an economist who is the president of a nonprofit research firm, has kept secret the entire draft report.
Claire Buchan, deputy White House press secretary, said that the White House did not have a copy of the report but that the president had said Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta would advise him on whether and how to change fuel economy standards, after giving due consideration not only to the report but also to passenger safety, economic effects and the American auto industry's competitiveness. 
Chet Lunner, a spokesman for the Transportation Department, which administers fuel-economy rules, declined to comment, saying the panel had not briefed the agency.
Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, declined to comment on the report, saying that automakers had been unable to obtain a copy. But automakers are generally worried that while it might be technologically possible to build higher-mileage vehicles, consumer demand for such vehicles has been weak, she said.
The auto industry has also argued that making vehicles more fuel-efficient will make them less safe because they might have to be lighter.
But the panel's report is optimistic that new engine technologies can produce fuel-efficiency savings without compromising safety, and notes that safety may actually be improved if automakers are forced to reduce the bulk of the largest sport utilities and pickups, which are especially deadly to other motorists. "Significant fuel economy gains in all vehicles can be achieved with minimal or no weight reduction and therefore minimal negative safety implications," the draft report said.
The report mentions that rapid increases in fuel economy standards for cars in the early 1980's may have contributed to thousands of additional deaths, as automakers sharply reduced the size and weight of vehicles instead of improving their engines. But making large sport utilities lighter may make roads safer by reducing the death rate of other motorists, federal research has found.
The report says that improved fuel economy is possible through the widespread introduction of engine technologies like variable valve timing, which offers greater precision in the combustion of gasoline, and integrated starter-generators, which electrically assist a gasoline engine. Many of these new technologies are now available on sports cars, and Ford has committed itself to introducing integrated starter-generators on Explorer sport utilities as part of the automaker's plan to increase the average fuel economy of its sport utilities by 5 miles a gallon by 2005.
But the report cautions that the large gains in fuel economy that the panel foresees will occur only if all the efficiency provided by these innovations is used to improve gas mileage. Automakers improved engines in the 1990's, but used the improvements to manufacture ever larger and heavier vehicles, notably sport utilities, and to improve acceleration. So instead of improving, the average fuel economy of vehicles sold in the United States has actually been falling for more than a decade.
The draft report says regulation would be the most effective way to achieve gains, while stopping short of recommending fuel-economy targets. "Selection of a new fuel economy target will require uncertain and difficult trade-offs among environmental benefits, safety, costs, oil import dependence, and consumer preferences, trade-offs the committee believes rightfully reside with elected officials," the report said.
Regulation is needed in part because vehicles with poor fuel economy contribute disproportionately to global warming and the nation's reliance on imported oil, yet these problems affect all Americans, not just those buying the inefficient vehicles, the report says. 
The draft report also recommends an overhaul of the current system of fuel-economy regulation, which requires each automaker to produce cars with an average fuel economy of 27.5 miles a gallon and light trucks with an average fuel economy of 20.7 miles a gallon. The report says that this system could be made more efficient by allowing automakers to trade fuel-economy credits, with automakers that don't meet the standards paying those that do. This idea, favored by many economists, is similar to a system that already allows electric utilities to trade air-pollution credits.
More lenient fuel economy standards for light trucks date back to the 1970's, when these vehicles were mostly pickups used by farmers and small businesses. One of the report's findings criticizes automakers for marketing sport utilities and minivans as substitutes for cars, while designing them so as to continue to qualify as light trucks for fuel-economy purposes.
"The car/truck distinction has been stretched well beyond the original purpose," the report says.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A panel of mainly engineers and consultants who have worked for the auto and oil industries thinks less time should be spent pumping gas. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart shows a sample of how much gas mileage may improve with new engine technologies. (pg. A1) Chart: "Going Farther on a Gallon of Gas"A draft report of a National Academy of Sciences panel has found that automakers could improve gas mileage by 7 percent to 58 percent for various classes of vehicles by using new engine technologies, now being introduced in sports cars. The technologies will pay for themselves in reduced gasoline use over the 14-year life of a vehicle if gasoline remains at $1.50 a gallon, the report said. But these gains will happen only if the new technologies are used exclusively to improve fuel efficiency, not to make vehicles larger or more powerful. Chart tracks average mileage, feasible mileage and modification cost for select cars and trucks.(Source: National Academy of Sciences draft report)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENGINEERING (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PICKUP TRUCKS (67%) AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (93%) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



428 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Bush Forgoes Trying to Bar Cuba Deals By Foreigners 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
In a setback for the Cuban exile lobby and its Congressional allies, President Bush said today that he would not activate the harshest sanction of a law that seeks to punish foreigners for investing in property in Cuba that was confiscated by the Havana government.
 The sanction, Title III of the Helms-Burton Act of 1996, would allow American corporations and citizens to sue foreign companies that use the expropriated properties for profit. 
 Mr. Bush said in a statement that his decision was "necessary for the national interest of the United States and will expedite the transition to democracy in Cuba." It appears to be aimed in part at avoiding a battle with European countries, which are critical of his policies on missile defense and global warming and see Helms-Burton as the United States legislating beyond its borders. 
President Clinton waived the Title III provision throughout his second term.
Mr. Bush's decision raises the likelihood that the full force of Helms-Burton will never take effect, Cuba experts said.
"If Clinton never imposed it, and this Republican president isn't going to, it's basically a dead letter," said Philip Peters, vice president of the Lexington Institute, a research organization that promotes market ideology.
Hard-line critics of the Cuban president, Fidel Castro, expressed dismay at the suspension, but they were quick to say Mr. Bush's approach to Cuba was preferable to Mr. Clinton's more conciliatory stance.
"Certainly before anybody jumps on the president for this six-month suspension, it would be wise to consider the other salutary initiatives that the president is putting into force," said Senator Jesse Helms, a chief sponsor of the bill and the ranking Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee. "The president is, in fact, taking a very tough line, which is certain to make Fidel Castro squirm."
Mr. Bush on Friday announced plans to strengthen the trade embargo by enforcing limits on cash payments that Cuban-Americans may send their relatives on the island and preventing American tourists from going there. He ordered officials to "use all available means" to overcome Havana's jamming of United States government broadcasts and promised additional support for human rights activists and dissidents.
Commenting on the Title III suspension, Dennis Hays, vice president of the Cuban-American National Foundation, the largest exile lobby, said, "We understand that the president has a bigger picture in mind, and we're prepared to accept his judgment that now is not the time."
Still, Democratic critics of Helms-Burton appeared to relish Mr. Bush's predicament. He is determined to pay back Cuban-American supporters, they said, but is worried about stirring an international furor that could haunt him in other policy arenas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%) MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%) CUBA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



429 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Hughes Posts Wider Loss For Quarter 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 16 

 BODY:
Hughes Electronics, which runs the satellite service DirecTV, lost $156.5 million in the second quarter, more than twice as much as last year despite an 8.1 percent rise in revenue, the company said today.
 Hughes also lowered its 2001 revenue projections for the second time in less than two months. Five weeks ago, it warned that sales for the year would be lower than expected because of a sluggish economy. 
 The company now expects revenue for the year of $8.3 billion, down from an earlier projection of $8.7 billion, analysts said.
In a conference call with analysts, Jack Shaw, the chief executive, said only that the earlier estimate did not "fully reflect the issues and market conditions facing our business."
The earnings report comes as a potential suitor for Hughes, EchoStar Communications, has reportedly withdrawn from the bidding.
Hughes's controlling shareowner, General Motors, would like to sell Hughes and concentrate on its core auto-making business.
Hughes shares were down $1.59, to $18.86.
Hughes loss of $156.5 million for the second quarter was larger than its loss of $69.1 million in the corresponding period a year earlier.
The bigger loss was attributed partly to higher expenses related to the growth in customer leased set-top boxes in Latin America and the United States and a larger satellite fleet.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.99 billion, up from $1.84 billion.
The company's DirecTV service is the leading provider of satellite television services, with 9.5 million subscribers. DirecTV also provides high-speed Internet access.
But EchoStar, based in Littleton, Colo., has been doing a better job of marketing and signing up new customers for months, said Matthew Harrigan of Janco Partners in Denver.
The Wall Street Journal reported today that EchoStar was was planning to abandon its bid to acquire Hughes. EchoStar is the No. 2 satellite communications provider with five million customers.
G. M. said today that it was moving forward in talks with the News Corporation to sell Hughes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%); EXECUTIVES (55%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (98%); DISH NETWORK CORP (94%); NEWS CORP (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HUGHES ELECTRONICS 

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (98%); DISH (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001 



430 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Blurring Borders in the New World

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. OSHINSKY; David M. Oshinsky is a professor of history at Rutgers University.

 BODY:
HERE
A Biography of
the New American Continent
By Anthony DePalma
375 pages. PublicAffairs. $26
 Americans seem indifferent to the phenomenon of globalization. Living within secure borders, sheltered by their country's immense military, economic and cultural power, they show little interest in exploring the connections between other societies and their own. Most Americans see no need to learn a second language, obtain a passport or focus on international events. They are detached from the world, it appears, because they don't believe anything foreign can seriously touch their lives. 
 And that applies to North America as well. In the United States, writes Anthony DePalma in "Here: A Biography of the New American Continent," people "rarely are conscious that they share this continent with anyone." Americans tend to view Mexico as a nation of banditos and mariachi bands, a giant banana republic connected to Latin America by culture and blood. Canada fares a little better, appearing, to American eyes, as a vast, frozen appendage of the United States -- scenic, friendly and dull. Its dubious claim to nationhood is nicely captured in a popular survey of American colleges, which praises the University of Notre Dame for recruiting students "from 50 states, 40 foreign countries, and Canada." Sometimes the unintended insult says the most.
It would be hard to find a surer guide to the new American continent than Mr. DePalma, who was a correspondent for The New York Times in Mexico and then in Canada from 1993 to 1999. Both countries came alive in these years, shedding their image as journalistic backwaters. In Mexico, Mr. DePalma reported on the violent drug wars, the ballooning debt crisis, the assassination of a leading presidential candidate and the armed revolt in Chiapas, the poorest state in the country. In Canada, he arrived in time to see the nation confront its fragile identity over the referendum on Quebec's secession.
Yet no event, Mr. DePalma says, was more significant than passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993. Blending a rich history of the continent with a sharp eye for cultural observation, he shows how the leaders of Mexico, Canada and the United States overcame generations of prejudice and exploitation to devise a common economic strategy based on free trade, open borders and mutual respect. Many were alarmed by the agreement, of course. Nafta "caused tremors in each country," Mr. DePalma writes, "but the fears each nation felt were something different."
Mexico presented the greatest challenge. The tremendous poverty, political corruption, class consciousness and religious orthodoxy made economic reform a chore. Foreign business executives complained about a culture in which time was viewed as fluid, not fixed, and deadlines were treated as guidelines. Mexico appeared to be caught between two identities: one looking to the complex modern world, the other yearning for a romantic agrarian past.
Its economy was in disarray. As an oil-producing nation, Mexico experienced the boom of the 1970's and the bust of the 1980's, which led it to default on its debts. Foreign investors shied away. Mexican industry, protected for decades by high tariffs, churned out shoddy goods. The leading export from Mexico seemed to be its own people crossing the northern border in a desperate search for jobs. Campaigning for Nafta, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari confronted American officials with the obvious question: "Where do you want Mexicans to work, in Mexico or in the United States?"
Canada faced different concerns, Mr. DePalma says, and culture played the central role. Unlike the United States, where individual rights take precedence over community norms, Canada cherishes order, civility and the public good. The United Nation's quality-of-life rankings -- which include such things as health care, literacy rates and life expectancy -- place Canada at the top. Yet these benefits did not come cheaply. In seeking consensus and social comfort, Mr. DePalma notes, Canadians sacrificed the opportunities for personal advancement and creativity that are hallmarks of American-style competition. As a result free trade was long viewed as an alien concept in Canada, where people grew up believing in the virtues of collectivism and government protection.
It was not simply their economy that seemed vulnerable. What Canada feared most about Nafta was the likelihood of a cultural meltdown, with Canadian radio, television, film and music forced to compete in an open market. Some Canadians demanded that Nafta include "cultural exemptions" to limit American media competition, as if that were possible in the age of the Internet and satellite television.
Others held conferences to bemoan the crisis of Canadian identity, with Yankees carefully excluded. The problem, Mr. DePalma says, is that the participants, mostly academics, spent their time scrutinizing the differences between Canada and the United States, thereby defining Canadian culture in terms of "what it is not rather than what it is." Canadians, he adds, can be masters at turning "self-flagellation into a national pastime."
Largely absent from "Here" is the view from inside the United States. We are reminded that President Clinton's successful bailout of the Mexican economy faced ferocious Congressional opposition and that the major domestic worry about Nafta -- famously described by Ross Perot as "a giant sucking sound" of American jobs draining into Mexico -- proved groundless. Unfortunately, Mr. DePalma does not examine the impact of free trade and open borders on American culture with the same care he gives to developments in Mexico and Canada. And he largely ignores the effect of recent immigration in broadening or perhaps hardening American attitudes toward globalization.
Mr. DePalma ends his elegant journey on an optimistic note. The economies of Mexico and Canada are stronger than before. Mr. DePalma contends that the openness required by free trade has lessened corruption in Mexico and increased the pressure for democratic reforms. In Canada, he writes, "corporations were forced to streamline," and the government followed suit, providing the first balanced budget in nearly 30 years. For Mexicans the major issue today is the creation of high-wage jobs; for Canadians it is the ability to stay competitive while retaining their generous welfare safety net. And for North Americans, Mr. DePalma concludes, it is the willingness to become "a community of shared interest, common dreams and coordinated responses to problems that have no regard for borders."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony DePalma (Miriam R. DePalma/PublicAffairs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); LITERATURE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (53%); REFERENDUMS (50%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%) NEW YORK TIMES 

PERSON: OSHINSKY, DAVID M (PROF); DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

TITLE: HERE: A BIOGRAPHY OF THE NEW AMERICAN CONTINENT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



431 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Minimum Wage Can Be Bumped Above Minimal 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL 

 BODY:
Another exhausting eight-hour shift had ended for Mussie Habetezion, a garage attendant, but his workday was far from over. He still had to endure an eight-hour overnight shift at the local 7-Eleven. On the days he didn't work at the 7-Eleven, he held a third job at a CVS Pharmacy.
 When a customer spotted Mr. Habetezion at all three jobs in a single week, she was flabbergasted. "She saw me at the garage, the CVS and the 7-Eleven and said, 'Oh my Lord, don't you ever sleep?' " he said. "I said that's all I have time to do." 
 The 28-year old Mr. Habetezion came to Alexandria, Va., from the eastern African nation of Eritrea four years ago, hoping to go to college. But he spoke little English and was nearly broke, so he gravitated to low-paying jobs, first at the convenience store and then at the parking garage.
Earning the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour, he struggled to pay the rent, maintain insurance on his 1978 Oldsmobile and save for his education. Like millions of other Americans, he was compelled to take additional low-paying jobs to make ends meet, and the American dream seemed to be fading.
Then, last October, Mr. Habetezion's life took a turn for the better. An ordinance had recently been passed in Alexandria that required all contractors providing services on city property to pay their employees a minimum $9.84 an hour. (The rate has since been raised to $10.21.) As a result, his salary at the garage nearly doubled, allowing him to quit one of his part-time jobs, buy a computer and begin taking a word-processing class at a local college. He hopes the work will lead him to a better job.
For his change in fortunes, he has a nascent crusade known as the living-wage movement to thank. Baltimore passed the first living-wage ordinance in 1994, an initiative that has grown into a grass-roots campaign to raise the minimum wage to a level that can actually pay for life's necessities. By the Federal Government's own figuring, the breadwinner in a family of four would have to earn $17,650, or $8.49 an hour, to escape poverty, and a living wage of around $10 or so would add a small cushion.
So far, more than 60 municipalities and counties in the United States have passed living-wage ordinances and about 75 others are contemplating them, according to Jen Kern, the director of the Living Wage Resource Center of the Association of Community Organization for Reform Now in Washington, known as Acorn, an important force in the movement. The laws generally cover workers at businesses that have contracted with a city or county government.
To be sure, 60 is a tiny fraction of the local governments in America, but proponents say the movement is gaining momentum, especially after a nationally publicized sit-in at Harvard in April by students demanding a living wage for university workers.
The movement has its critics, who warn it could lead to job losses for unskilled workers, saddle businesses with higher costs and worsen inflation. "When these laws are broad enough, there will be harmful effects on business," said Richard Toikka, the chief economist for the Employment Policies Institute in Washington, a nonprofit research organization. "It would hurt people going from welfare to work who really have no track record to get hired." Instead, the institute supports the earned-income tax credit, which he said "targets the families most in need."
In the workplace trenches, however, a pay increase that might be small change for most white-collar workers is bringing hope to impoverished Americans. "There's a big difference, but it's not all in terms of dollars and cents," said Makonen Hastemarian, 68, another parking-lot attendant in Alexandria whose hourly wage has risen to $10.21 from $7. "Now I'm only working one job, and the main thing is I get to have time with my wife and my children. Sometimes I go to the theater or a concert. These things give some meaning to life."
Mr. Hastemarian came to the United States eight years ago from Ethiopia, where he had been a grade-school teacher. His recent pay increase won't permit him to retire anytime soon, or pay much toward the cost of sending his two daughters to Virginia Tech. But it does give him time to pursue his ambition of writing his autobiography.
And what of the great majority of unskilled workers in America who don't fall under a living-wage law? Most would probably agree on one thing: It is impossible to get by on $5.15 an hour or even a dollar or two more.
Consider Charlsetta Cowan, 42, and her 20-year-old daughter Llanicia in Little Rock, Ark., where a living-wage ordinance is being debated. Llanicia Cowan, a single mother who earns $6.50 an hour doing clerical work for the city's parks department, says she can barely afford to buy Pampers for her baby daughter, much less clothing for herself.
Charlsetta Cowan, meantime, quit a $6-an-hour job as a motel clerk in May because of high blood pressure that her doctor warned could trigger a stroke. She recently returned to work as a medical-records agent at a local hospital that pays $6.79 an hour. 
She has no savings, and is trying to support three of her eight children (not including Llanicia) in a residential hotel that charges her $133 a week for a one-bedroom apartment. In recent months, she's been accepting handouts from friends and family and relying on her church pantry to provide many of her family's meals.
"This is my lowest point," Ms. Cowan said. "There's no way to save anything. You can't run a household on $6 an hour. I'm basically concerned with today. I'm hoping and praying tomorrow will be better."
Or consider Jerome Eiledge, 36, a divorced father of two in Houston. Mr. Eiledge earns the minimum wage cleaning office buildings on weekends and takes care of his daughters during the week. After a tropical storm destroyed the trailer park where they lived, the family took refuge at a friend's apartment.
Now and then, Mr. Eiledge lands construction jobs that pay well, but he has never been able to set aside enough money to travel with his daughters to visit family members in Illinois and Utah. Instead, he settles on trips to a McDonald's playground.
Even so, he tries to strike an optimistic note. "I look around," he said. "There are a lot of people in worse shape."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The pay of Makonen Hastemarian, a parking-lot attendant in Alexandria, Va., has risen more than $3 a hour under the living wage. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); FAMILY (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (63%) LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; WAGES AND SALARIES; LOCAL GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%)

PERSON: KOEPPEL, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ERITREA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



432 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Royal Philips Plans to Cut 4,000 Jobs 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 17 

 BODY:
In a further sign of the slowdown cascading over Europe from the United States, Royal Philips Electronics of the Netherlands, the Continent's leading electronics manufacturer, said today that it would shed a further 4,000 jobs, bringing its total for the year to more than 10,000.
 The chief executive, Gerard Kleisterlee, made the announcement as the company reported a second-quarter loss, excluding one-time items, of 348 million euros ($298 million), in contrast to a profit of 699 million euros in the period last year. 
 Including special charges and one-time gains, the figures showed an even more alarming slump from a second-quarter profit last year of 3.6 billion euros, when the company benefited from disposals, to a net loss of 770 million euros. 
One month ago, the company said it expected a significant loss in the second quarter, but the figure was higher than some analysts' forecasts and Philips shares dropped as much as 5.7 percent. The shares are down 27 percent so far this year. The fall weighed on European stock markets that were bracing to see whether Intel would add to the gloom in technology when it released its earnings report later today. 
Philips is suffering as economic growth stalls in most of its markets around the globe, particularly in Europe, forcing clients to cut back on purchases of computers, mobile phones, televisions and other consumer electronics products using semiconductors. It said its consumer electronics sales fell 18 percent in the second quarter while chip sales were down 19 percent and components fell 40 percent.
The company has already signaled its desire to reduce its money-losing mobile phone business, contributing to an earlier 7,000 job cuts in the divisions that make cell phones and television screens. Including the layoffs announced today, the job losses account for about 5 percent of the work force.
While the semiconductor business is seen as prone to up-and-down cycles, "the trough we are looking at is further down than in previous times," said Navdeep Sheera of Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.
The latest cuts will affect workers in Philips's semiconductor business and will cost the company about $255 million in the second half, adding to other layoff costs expected to total around $850 million for the year, even as earnings continue to fall.
"We remain very cautious about the economic development for the rest of the year," Philips said in a statement that echoed most analysts' assessments. "For semiconductors our current expectation is that the industry will not see a recovery before 2002."
According to Jan Hommen, Philips's chief financial officer, third-quarter losses will be about the same, or slightly larger, than in the second quarter. That could lead to the company's first full-year loss in nine years. Philips said it would break even or incur a small loss for the year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerard Kleisterlee said yesterday that Philips Electronics reported a loss for the second quarter. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); EURO (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%) ELECTRONICS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (58%); INTEL CORP (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS 

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (58%); PHIA (AMS) (58%); PHG (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: KLEISTERLEE, GERARD; HOMMEN, JAN; COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



433 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2030 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, A Steak Secret To Rival Kobe 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: MATSUZAKA, Japan 

 BODY:
I WASN'T sure whether to be insulted or impressed when, seconds after I had stepped out of his barn here, Mikichi Kubo took out a dustpan and broom and swept up after me. The barn is home to six large black cows. Shouldn't I be scraping my shoes instead?
 But the cows housed in Mr. Kubo's barn are not just any old cows. They are Matsuzaka cattle, destined to become what some consider to be the finest beef in Japan. 
 No, this isn't Kobe beef, which in the minds of many Americans is the best in Japan. Cattle from Kobe, Americans have heard, are carefully bred, raised on special feed, even given massages; Kobe steaks are sold for astonishing prices. But here in Japan, Kobe has a rival: Matsuzaka beef, one of this country's best-kept secrets. 
Farmers like Mr. Kubo raise their highly prized cattle in this tiny town, just inland from one of the more spectacular wrinkles in Japan's glorious Pacific coastline, under conditions that a Park Avenue Pekingese might envy. And the meat, densely marbled and butter-tender, is difficult to come by, even in Tokyo, because only 2,500 Matsuzaka cows are slaughtered each year. It commands prices as high as Kobe's -- up to $60 a pound in a meat market, if you can find it. Don't look for Matsuzaka in the United States, where Japanese beef has been banned since March 2000, after an outbreak of hoof-and-mouth disease in southern Japan. 
There is something distinctively different about this beef from coddled virgin cows, its fans say, though myth and mystique may be just as important to how it is regarded as how it tastes. Matsuzaka cows are slaughtered when they are 3 years old, an unusually long life for cows bred for beef. "They are alive longer than any other beef cattle, and that makes a difference in the taste and texture of their meat," said Shizuo Kashiwagi, the owner of a meat market not far from Matsuzaka. "And in the fat." 
For Japanese beef eaters, choosing between Kobe and Matsuzaka beef "is like choosing between Alaska king crab and Maryland crab," said Elizabeth Andoh, an American journalist and the director of a culinary arts center in Tokyo. "It's very much a matter of personal taste, and how you intend to cook it." 
In the few restaurants where it is served in Japan, diners pay dearly. Okahan, an elegant restaurant in Tokyo, serves Matsuzaka beef as part of a sukiyaki or shabu shabu course which includes hors d'oeuvres and side dishes, for 16,000 yen, or $128. A grilled steak costs about $144. Ginza Sato, also in Tokyo, offers fillets grilled over charcoal for $48 and $64. Several other restaurants in Tokyo serve the beef only through orders placed in advance.
"Eating Kobe is like eating foie gras, where Matsuzaka is more like eating beef," recalled Tadashi Ono, the chef and an owner of Sono in Manhattan, who first tasted Matsuzaka beef years ago and found it similar to Kobe beef in taste. He said he might prefer the Matsuzaka, which is very fatty, for cooking because it had a beefier flavor.
In the beef-mystique war, Kobe may have gained the upper hand through an accident of geography. "Kobe is a port city," said Takeo Matsuda, whose family raises 1,800 Matsuzaka cows on its farms here and has a restaurant, Wadakin, that is probably the most famous purveyor of Matsuzaka beef. "Ships stopping to pick up food and water soon learned that there were good beef cattle on the outskirts of the city, and they carried the news with them."
There is no port in Matsuzaka, which may be why its beef has remained a secret, known perhaps to global gourmands but few others outside Japan. Mr. Matsuda's great-great-grandfather produced the first of what has come to be called Matsuzaka beef and if a cow isn't raised here, it cannot lay claim to the pedigree. 
At the height of Japan's economic bubble in 1989, the championship cow in the annual Matsuzaka competition sold for about $392,000 at current exchange rates. 
"Anyplace in the world would consider that to be a high price," said Chuck Lambert, chief economist of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association in Washington.
The best cows still command prices that impress beef cattle producers everywhere. Last year, when Japan was sliding into yet another recession, the champion sold for $81,600.
But putting a finger on what distinguishes Matsuzaka from Kobe and other top-quality beef "brands" like Maeda and Omi, is tricky. Other top-quality beef cattle also get massages from time to time and may drink beer.
Matsuzaka's stature is built largely on its excellent quality but is also enhanced and reinforced by myth. For instance, before I arrived in Japan four years ago, I had heard that Matsuzaka cows not only received massages and tippled beer, but also listened to Mozart piped into their barns. The music turned out to be a tall tale, but one that continues to circulate nevertheless.
Mr. Kubo, the farmer, says the secret is largely genetic. Matsuzaka, Kobe and other fine beef cattle come from breeders in the Tajima Valley, some 150 kilometers from Matsuzaka. Tajima is the home of Japanese wagyu, or beef cattle, which, legend has it, journeyed to Japan from the Korean peninsula in the company of Ame-no-Hiboko, a local divinity, in the fifth century B.C. Elsewhere in Japan, the four breeds of wagyu -- black, red, no-horn and shorthorn -- have been bred with cattle imported from Europe and the United States. But the lineage of Tajima cows is carefully protected. Each of Mr. Kubo's cows has papers, stamped with a nose print, that trace its bloodlines back several generations. 
Mr. Kubo, however, cannot comment on the beef's taste because he does not eat it -- he becomes too attached to his cows. "They are domestic animals, I know, and they are raised to be eaten," Mr. Kubo said. "But the thought gives me a very bad feeling."
Mr. Matsuda said he thought the difference between Matsuzaka and other beef was "climate and water -- that's all." Indeed, many say that Matsuzaka's reputation is built on little more than mystique.
"There is not a huge difference between Matsuzaka and Kobe beef," said Asako Kishi of Tokyo, a well-known food critic and writer. "Both are high-quality meats, with lots of very evenly distributed marbling." She said that if anything distinguishes Matsuzaka, it is that even though the meat is riddled with fat, one tastes the flavor and feels the texture of the meat only.
Mr. Kashiwagi, the founder and owner of Asahiya, a big, bustling, old-fashioned meat market just north of here in Tsu, insists that the virginity of the cows is a deciding factor in Matsuzaka's supremacy. Kobe and other fine beef comes from steers, as well as cows whose virginity is not so carefully guarded. 'It's the virginity," he said. "That, and their age."
But it is difficult for a visitor to see the nurturing the cows receive and not think it contributes something to their distinction. Before entering one of the barns where the Matsuda family's cows reside, I had to take off my shoes, put on a pair of pristine white rubber boots, walk through disinfectant and wash my hands. "Hoof-and-mouth," the manager explained.
At Mr. Kubo's farm, electric fans were running in the barns but not in his house, which has no air-conditioning. The brilliant sunshine pounded down on the rice paddies and fields, but the cows were all inside the barns. "Too hot," he explained. "They're black, you see."
Exercise is not encouraged. "The most important thing is, at an early stage the cow must eat a lot of high-fiber foods like hay, wheat bran, corn and soybean byproducts," he said. "That stretches the stomach and makes it big."
To encourage his cows to eat even more, Mr. Kubo, like other Matsuzaka cow owners, sees that they guzzle beer every week. Some cows develop a taste for it, others have to be force-fed.
Each of his cows has her own stall of roughly 17 square feet. The rails that form the stalls are made of wood and wooden pegs, and the water troughs are plastic, not metal. "They might scratch themselves on metal," Mr. Kubo explained.
All this pampering is expensive, so Mr. Kubo supplements his income by trimming the hooves and horns of other farmers' animals. This sideline is a necessity: his income swings wildly, depending on whether he produces a championship cow. Matsuzaka cows that are not among the final 50 contestants in the annual competition sell for about $9,600. "It's gambling," Mr. Kubo said.
Each fall, he and his wife travel to Tajima and select five or six heifers that are about 8 months old to raise, or rather, spoil rotten in Matsuzaka. For the next few years, they are treated to "massages," rubdowns with a stiff brush, every other day or so, a practice said to enhance the even distribution of fat throughout their bodies.
Matsuzaka cows become so accustomed to human attention and affection -- Mr. Kubo's cows stick their heads through the slats of their stalls and all but ask to be petted -- that they are led quite easily to the slaughterhouse, a trip that other, less coddled cattle vigorously resist.
The Cadillac treatment is expensive, and raising Matsuzaka cows is to some degree a labor of love, even for large producers like the Matsuda family. They make money because they sell virtually all of their stock through their restaurant.
The calves Mr. Kubo buys in Tajima cost between $6,400 and $6,800, and he figures he spends $3,200 to $4,000 on each one over her lifetime. Unless he produces potential champions, he cannot make a profit. No wonder, then, that most farmers raise only a couple of heifers at a time.
The annual November competition is the event of the year here. Getting into the final round is very often the difference between make or break for farmers like Mr. Kubo: finalists will fetch around $24,000 apiece.
Many of the finalists end up behind the counter at Asahiya, Mr. Kashiwagi's shop. Between 1990 and 2000, Mr. Kashiwagi purchased nine of the last 10 Matsuzaka champions, paying a total of $858,000 at current exchange rates. "I don't make money on these cows, that's not why I spend like this to get the champion," he said. "I try to drive prices up to encourage the producers to keep producing great beef cows. It's not such easy work, raising a Matsuzaka cow."
The day before I visited his shop, he had purchased a side of Matsuzaka beef, and he had his workers pull it out of the cold storage room. They sawed it open to reveal the thickly marbled meat, surrounded by layers of fat so white it could have been coconut. "Look," Mr. Kashiwagi urged. "Have you ever seen anything like it?"
He figured that the side would produce about 220 pieces of meat and that all of it would be sold before noon the next day. The most lucrative part of the cow will be the innards, or offal. Brains, in particular, are the source of much of the concern outside Japan about bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease.
"We don't have worries about that here," Mr. Kashiwagi said. "People like the offal because it provides the best indication of the health of the cow it came from."
I tried four different kinds of Matsuzaka steak at Wadakin and found it very, very good, even though I prefer my meat lean. You do not taste or feel the fat when you chew; it's very flavorful. My one complaint is that you can't eat a lot if it; it's too rich.
Mr. Matsuda of Wadakin believes, however, that standards for beef are slipping in Japan, as more and more regional beef comes onto the market and cheaper, imported meat is more readily available. "Even in Japan, people don't really know what's good beef any more," he said. 
"They think anything soft is prime beef, but that's just one criterion. The fat must be sweet, and the red meat must have the power to retain the juices."
His cows eat a custom-blended diet of wheat, soybean byproducts, hay and corn. "The basic ingredients are the same everywhere," Mr. Matsuda said. "The difference is in how they are blended, and that's our special and secret formula." 
But there is no such formula for blending the top-secret feeds, beer, massages and tender-loving care that go into the raising of Matsuzaka cows. "The bottom line," said Mr. Kubo, "is that you just don't know if a champion's a champion until you slaughter it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CHUG, CHUG, CHUG! -- At one of the Matsuda family's beef farms in Matsuzaka, Japan, a cow receives her ration of Kirin beer. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. F1); A LITTLE TO THE LEFT -- Mikichi Kubo, a Matsuzaka beef farmer, massages one of his cows.; SHOWING OFF -- Workers with a prizewinner at Asahiya, a butcher near Matsuzaka. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. F7) Map of Japan highlighting Matsuzaka. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); MAMMALS (89%); RESTAURANTS (83%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (77%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (77%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (67%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (60%) MEAT; LIVESTOCK; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



434 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Sues Payday Lender Over Rates 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: DENVER, July 17 

 BODY:
The State of Colorado has sued a check-cashing chain, accusing it of violating state law and charging steep interest rates for payday loans to mostly poor clients.
 The lawsuit also accused the company, ACE Cash Express Inc., of operating in Colorado without a license. 
The company, based in Irving, Tex., has 50 stores in the state. 
 Eric Norrington, a vice president at ACE, declined to comment until he had read the lawsuit. 
With payday lending, a client might collect a loan of up to $500 in exchange for a personal postdated check for that amount, plus a 20 percent, or $100, surcharge. The lender will not redeem the check until the client's next payday, or up to 14 days. 
ACE and other payday lenders say they are doing nothing wrong and are providing a valuable service to low-income workers. Fees and surcharges can amount to a 442 percent annual rate. 
Colorado requires such lenders to be licensed and caps loans at $500. They cannot charge more than 20 percent for the first $300 and 7.5 percent for the next $200. 
For a 14-day $500 loan, that means a $75 fee, the equivalent of a 391 percent annual rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (95%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%) BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: ACE CASH EXPRESS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ACE CASH EXPRESS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (91%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (91%) SIC6099 OTHER FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSIT BANKING; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) COLORADO

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



435 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Political Climate Complicates Food Shortage in Zimbabwe 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, July 17 

 BODY:
Zimbabwe faces a food shortage in the coming months, and while such shortages are not unknown in the country, this time the reasons behind it -- and the ways out of it -- are especially complex, aid officials say.
 Other shortages, such as the one in 1998 when Zimbabwe needed to import about 400,000 metric tons of corn, have not crippled the country, and typically, this year's projected shortfall of 447,000 tons would not have been cause for too much alarm either, officials say. 
 Zimbabwe, however, is hardly the same place it was even a few years ago. With its economy a wreck, the country is in no position to help itself. With its president, Robert Mugabe, the object of scorn in Western capitals because of his suppression of the political opposition and his support of farm seizures, Zimbabwe is isolated from the very countries that would be expected to come to its aid. 
"In normal circumstances, this should be manageable, but I don't think we're talking of normal circumstances," Elliot Vhurumuku of the Famine Early Warning System Network said in a telephone interview from the capital, Harare.
The shortfall is one result of a confluence of factors: some parts of the country were still struggling this year to recover from major flooding in early 2000, and many, especially in the south and east, endured erratic rainfall patterns. The planting of corn, the country's staple food, has fallen, driven down by the widespread farm invasions sanctioned by the government and further hurt by the crop's declining price. 
Meanwhile, hard currency, which would ordinarily buy Zimbabwe out of such a poor harvest, is scarce, a result of a big drop-off in tourism and falling production of the country's key exports, tobacco and gold. 
Last week, after months of doing little publicly about the problem, Mr. Mugabe assembled a cabinet task force to oversee the Grain Marketing Board, which controls the import and export of corn.
While encouraged by the government's acknowledgment of the problem, some international aid officials worry that with presidential elections scheduled for early next year, Zimbabwean political leaders will press too hard to keep the price of corn down and end up doing grave damage to agriculture. 
Already, some farmers have been switching to more lucrative crops like soybeans and the pepper plant, from which paprika is derived. If the price of corn is held down too much, many more will abandon it, setting up much bigger shortages next year, the officials say.
Donor nations, including the United States, are monitoring the situation, and while aid officials do not expect the West to withhold aid, the political tension is making communication more complicated.
The United Nations Development Program, which has been charged with coordinating international efforts in Zimbabwe, is serving as a bridge between Mr. Mugabe's government and the West. It is a delicate task; in declining to be interviewed, United Nations officials explained that the working relationships are simply too fragile to put at risk.
Zimbabwe was one of Africa's more stable countries until last year, when its struggling economy went into a free fall as political turmoil grew. But it is still a long way from the food crises that have struck in Angola, Congo and Sudan.
George Heymell, a program adviser for the United Nations World Food Program, said in a telephone interview from regional headquarters in Maputo, Mozambique, "We are not at the point where W.F.P. would have to move in with emergency assistance, and I don't know if we're ever going to get to that point." Still, the agency is not taking chances and is sending in one or two food specialists to help lay the groundwork for any relief effort that might be needed.
Last October, people rioted for three days in the capital and other cities after food prices surged. The country has remained restless. 
Last week the price of bread was doubled for the second time in two months. With the harvest down from last year, and with the foreign currency needed to import food and other essential goods like fuel in short supply, hunger and frustration could become more widespread. 
According to two recent reports, one by the Famine Early Warning System and the other by the World Food Program and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, Zimbabwe needs between 200,000 and 600,000 tons of corn and other grains, depending on how deeply the country dips into its reserves. 
Such quantities of food cannot be imported overnight, and that is why, aid officials say, the effort must begin now. "If the moves are taken now," Mr. Vhurumuku said, "there is time to counteract the problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); POLITICS (88%); FAMINE (79%); CORN FARMING (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TRENDS (73%); WEATHER (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); FLOODS & FLOODING (65%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) FOOD; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (74%) ZIMBABWE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) ZIMBABWE

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



436 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output Declined 0.7% in June 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
Production at factories, mines and utilities posted the worst showing since January, falling 0.7 percent last month on top of a 0.5 percent drop in May, the Federal Reserve reported today.
 The latest snapshot of industrial activity was weaker than many analysts were expecting. They were predicting manufacturing activity would decline 0.5 percent in June. 
 "These numbers don't provide any evidence that the bottom has indeed been hit in the factory sector," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management.
Operating capacity sank to its lowest point in nearly 18 years as companies throttled back production in the face of sagging demand. The industrial sector operated at 77 percent of capacity in June, compared with 77.6 percent in May.
Many economists say the industrial sector, hardest hit by the slumping economy, has been pulled into a recession of its own. To cope, manufacturers have sharply cut production and shed thousands of workers.
"It's clear that the downturn in manufacturing that began last September has been nearly as severe as the 1990-91 recession," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
At factories, output fell 0.8 percent in June, after a 0.5 percent decline. The weakness was widespread, with production declining for, among other things, cars and trucks, home electronics and appliances, industrial machinery, semiconductors and metal products. Output of computers and office equipment was flat.
"The manufacturing sector is languishing in pain," said Stan Shipley, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
The Fed report also said that mining production fell 0.4 percent in June, after a 0.1 percent decline. But output at gas and electric utilities rose 0.9 percent, after a 1.7 percent drop in May.
To stave off recession, the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates six times this year, totaling 2.75 percentage points. The rate reductions lower borrowing costs and are aimed at generating consumer spending and business investment, which would rejuvenate economic growth.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, will provide Congress with his twice-a-year report on the economy on Wednesday. Many analysts say they think he will deliver a cautiously optimistic assessment and that he may signal that the Fed's latest credit-easing campaign may be coming to a close.
For the second quarter, total industrial output fell at an annual rate of 5.6 percent, after a 6.8 percent rate of decline registered in the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Industrial Production"Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows monthly change from January 2000-June 2001 June: -0.7%May: -0.5April: -0.5(Source: Federal Reserve) Chart: "Capacity Utilization"Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows operating rates from January 2000-June 2001 June: 77.0%May: 77.6April: 78.1(Source: Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



437 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate; 
A Former Hotel Is Being Reborn as Small Offices

BYLINE:  By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
The owner of the 15-story former Knickerbocker Hotel in Times Square is thinking small: it wants to turn the top seven floors into office space for small tenants.
 One goal is to attract the many service companies that the owner, S. L. Green Realty Corporation, thinks will want to move to Times Square to serve the larger companies that are settling there. 
 Opened in 1906, the Knickerbocker Hotel, at 42nd Street and Broadway, saw its business suffer during Prohibition, and it was converted into office space in 1921.
In 1999, S. L. Green began trying to market the property, which now houses a Gap store, several small retailers and showrooms for some 200 women's sportswear manufacturers, through Lehman Brothers. 
It had hoped to return the building to its onetime role as a hotel. But Steven Durels, a senior vice president of leasing, said the building, at 1466 Broadway, was taken off the market just a few months later. The market had not matured, he said. While large companies like Reuters and Arthur Andersen had made commitments to the neighborhood, they had not yet moved in.
Now, S. L. Green wants to refit a total of 120,000 square feet on the upper floors of the building as office space, while keeping floors three through seven available for showrooms. According to Mr. Durels, the property now houses tenants that lease 500 to 15,000 square feet, but the goal on each of the office floors is to have just three or four tenants, with each renting 2,500 to 7,500 square feet. 
S. L. Green has already cleared Floors 8 through 10. It intends to convert the upper four floors into offices as space becomes available. (There is no 13th floor.)
In the meantime, the company is overhauling the building to include new plumbing, electrical wiring, common areas, central air-conditioning and broadband wiring. 
A new metal and glass canopy has been designed for the Broadway entrance, and the building's lobby is under construction. There, the goal is to do away with the lobby's illuminated plastic ceiling, which Mr. Durels described as vintage 70's, so that it can be replaced with a new barrel-vaulted ceiling similar to the building's original lobby, which was too deteriorated to be restored.
The scaffolding that has shrouded the building for more than two years will come down after the copper mansard roof and the limestone and brick exterior are restored.
Eventually, S. L. Green hopes to reconfigure the retail space. The Gap, which now takes up the ground floor, second floor and basement, recently reopened after expanding to 35,000 square feet, from 15,000 square feet. As for the three or four other small retailers that call the building home, Mr. Durels said that his firm hoped to combine their spaces over the next 18 months, once leases expire, into one 7,000-square-foot unit. 
Mr. Durels said his firm wanted to pursue tenants that prefer to be in the Times Square neighborhood, like small media companies. 
Peter Turchin, a managing director at Insignia/ESG, the real estate services company that is now marketing 1466 Broadway, said: "Times Square has become the area of the haves and the have-nots. The haves are the large tenants which have found new space, but small tenants are looking at properties that haven't been updated."
Mr. Durels said that his company was spending $10 million on the renovations, and would additionally spend about $60 a square foot building office space there. He expects space to become available by mid-September, adding that asking rents will be in the "low $50" range per square foot annually.
That compares favorably with asking rents in Times Square that are now about $60 to $65 a square foot a year, said Hiroshi Nagata, a managing director at Sumitomo Real Estate Sales.
Even so, Mr. Nagata said that S. L. Green might have trouble finding tenants, both because of the softening economy and because of the roughly two million square feet of commercial space that is expected to come onto the market in Times Square during the next two years. Asking prices for top buildings in Times Square have already come down 5 to 10 percent since a year ago, Mr. Nagata said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former Knickerbocker Hotel, on Broadway at 42nd Street. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (54%); APPAREL MFG (54%) REAL ESTATE; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN, S L, REALTY CORP 

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



438 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: A Bet on Bulgaria Pays Dividends; 
Plants Like American Standard's Bolster the Economy

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: SEVLIEVO, Bulgaria 

 BODY:
Much like a Martian spacecraft, a huge new factory that makes porcelain bathroom fixtures is a startling sight on the farmland outside this worn-down city of 25,000 in a remote corner of the Balkans.
 Downtown, an old factory has been refurbished with the latest machines to make chromium-plated brass faucets and other plumbing fixtures. 
 In a village a half-hour drive across pastureland, a third factory -- spanking new, low-slung and painted blue and white -- turns out faucets, door handles and knobs.
All this is a result of the investment of more than $100 million by the American Standard Companies, the conglomerate based in Piscataway, N.J., that makes air-conditioners and auto parts as well as bathroom fixtures.
The business here has made Bulgaria -- a country of slightly more than eight million people that is not often mistaken for an economic powerhouse -- a leading supplier of bathroom fixtures to much of Europe and the Middle East, with brands like Ideal Standard and Jade. 
Such investments are providing the seeds for improvement around the country, which got a fitful start in its shift to an open market economy and is still well behind most other former Soviet bloc countries, like Poland and Hungary. 
But in addition to ranking among the largest foreign investments in Bulgaria, the American Standard presence is one of the few to take development into areas far from the center of government in the capital, Sofia, or the trade and tourism center in Varna, Bulgaria's Black Sea port.
It has certainly been a boon for this struggling region, providing employment as well as galvanizing efforts to transform the local economy. Jobs at the plants are so plentiful that workers have to be bused in by the company from towns as far as 35 miles away, a significant journey for the average Bulgarian.
For American Standard, the factories also represent the company's longest step into the formerly Communist and now rapidly growing Eastern Europe.
"It is definitely among the very successful foreign investments in Bulgaria," said Jean-Marc Peterschmitt, an economist based in Bulgaria for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Of course, experts say, operating in the Balkans poses many challenges and risks. American Standard must still rely heavily on Western suppliers, for lack of competitive local businesses. And there have been hitches because of the Balkan region's unstable politics.
When war erupted in nearby Kosovo in 1999, disrupting highways through Serbia that American Standard uses to deliver products to Western Europe, alternative routes through Romania and Greece added days to delivery times and increased transportation costs. And the recent fighting in neighboring Macedonia has done little to enhance investment in the region.
Still, the investment has given the company a pool of skilled and inexpensive labor reasonably close to crucial markets in Western Europe and the Middle East, and increasingly elsewhere in Eastern Europe.
The success in Bulgaria is in part attributable to the fact that American Standard bought in gradually, Mr. Peterschmitt said, beginning in 1992 with a joint venture in Sevlievo.
The venture involved American Standard's German unit, Ideal Standard, and the original downtown company -- called Vidima, for a local river -- that had been making bathroom faucets and valves since the 1930's. Nationalized by the Communists after World War II, the shabby Vidima factory was seized after the collapse of Communism in 1989 by a group of young managers, who cast about for investors. They were able to interest American Standard, whose products and managers they knew from trade fairs.
The Vidima plant, which had several dozen workers right after the war, had expanded to about 1,000 employees producing $9 million in revenue by 1992.
Five years later, American Standard had taken full control through several increases in investments, part of the millions it has sunk over the years into refurbishing the old Vidima factory and building the two new ones, the second of which opened in May. The business now provides employment directly for about 3,350 Bulgarians and indirectly for maybe five times that many people, including truck drivers and construction workers. Revenue this year is expected to total $63 million, from a much expanded product line.
"I wanted this job -- it's more in line with what I studied," said Ivailo Kanev, 30, who buffs and polishes brass faucet parts.
Mr. Kanev had gone to a local technical school, but then found work only at a textile factory rinsing newly woven fabric. With overtime, he now earns the equivalent of $175 to $220 a month, compared with $65 to $90 at the textile factory and the country's average wage of $100. This, he said, allows him to provide nicer clothes for his wife and their young daughter, and even take an occasional holiday away from Sevlievo.
Such wages may be a windfall for Mr. Kanev, but they are still a bargain to American Standard. Labor costs here are only about one-tenth of those at the company's factories in Western Europe.
American Standard says it is not just the inexpensive labor that makes Bulgaria attractive. "Geographically it is a good place to be, and the quality of what they make is world class," said Frederic M. Poses, the company's chief executive. "You have people who want to work, who want to be better, who care about their work."
Roughly one-fourth of American Standard's annual revenue of $7.6 billion, or $1.8 billion, comes from bathroom fixtures, and sales in Europe make up about half that amount. The Bulgarian factories are expected to account for around 7 percent of the company's European sales this year.
The return on investment has been rapid and substantial. The $43 million porcelain factory, which opened in 1997, paid itself off in four years, said Vasil Kanev (no relation to Ivailo Kanev), one of the young post-Communist era managers who was recently named chief executive of Eastern Europe operations.
American Standard's business here is very much in line with the policies of the government that took office in 1997 pledging to move the country toward a Western-style market economy. Those policies are expected to be continued by the cabinet that will be formed when the newly elected Parliament assembles next week.
Foreign direct investment in Bulgaria was roughly $1 billion last year, compared with $800 million a year earlier and $537 million in 1998, according to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Since the collapse of Communism in 1989, foreign investment per person has reached $407 in Bulgaria, compared with $751 in Poland, Eastern Europe's economic powerhouse, and $303 in neighboring Romania.
Experts like Mr. Peterschmitt of the European Bank agree that projects like the factories here spur local efforts that are helping to transform the overall economy.
And company executives stress their commitment to that process as they also seek to fill American Standard's needs. American Standard helped pay for the extension of gas lines and fiber optic cables to Sevlievo. Two years ago, it opened the city's first hotel, the 40-room Sevlievo Plaza. It is also attracting local talent back to Bulgaria, some of them refugees from the Communist era while others left after the collapse of the Soviet system as the economy stumbled.
Among them is Radoslav Tzankov, 39, who defected to the former West Germany in 1988, a year before the Berlin Wall came down, then made his way to the United States where he worked for a health care company in Provo, Utah. He returned to Bulgaria in 1993, drawn by an offer for a marketing job from American Standard.
"The town has done well on this issue," Mr. Tzankov, now head of logistics, said of American Standard's local investments. Two years ago, he added, Sevlievo even got its own customs office, mainly to handle the company's shipments.
Vasil Kanev, the chief of Eastern Europe operations, said American Standard was focusing on a companywide effort to reduce accidents and breakage rates. According to Tom Thornton, the manager of the Bulgarian porcelain plant, the portion of sinks and toilets that must be smashed as rejects has already dropped, to about 10 percent -- one of the best rates among the company's 47 plumbing factories in 25 countries -- from 36.5 percent last year.
The company has also been trying to draw suppliers to Bulgaria, an effort that is intended to cut costs but that will also benefit the local economy. One major supplier, Gruppo Minerali of Italy, which provides some of the 600 tons of raw materials -- clays, sand and the like -- that the porcelain factory consumes every week, is building a processing plant here. Four other important suppliers, from Germany, Spain and Austria, are expected to establish themselves in Bulgaria this year.
American Standard's stock has remained strong, rising nearly 23 percent so far this year. And analysts generally applaud the company's efforts. "I think they are raising the quality of the total work force, and that has a significant impact on costs as well as quality," said Daniel Noll, who follows the company for Balis Lewittes & Coleman in New York.
The company is not, however, impervious to bumps in the global road. When announcing that first-quarter revenue from bathroom products slipped 1 percent, to $455 million, Mr. Poses attributed the results to deteriorating economic conditions in North America and Europe, where 90 percent of its products are sold. And American Standard wants to increase sales in Eastern Europe, a natural market for the Bulgarian factories, but where the company has yet to make significant headway against local manufacturers or inexpensive Italian competitors.
Still, as Eastern Europe restores housing neglected by decades of Communism and builds new homes for its expanding middle class, the potential is huge. And Mr. Poses stresses that American Standard is in the region for the long haul.
"We started with the understanding that there's a small fixture factory there," Mr. Poses said. "We went, liked what we saw, and believed that with a little help we could make it into a world-class factory. From that beginning, we've had a good start."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bulgaria has become an important supplier of bathroom fixtures to Europe and the Middle East. A worker, above, at American Standard's refurbished Vidima plant in Sevlievo and the plant, below, in the 1960's. (Vassil Donev/Protos for The New York Times)(pg. C1); A quality inspector at one of three American Standard plumbing fixture factories in Bulgaria. The plants employ more than 3,300 people directly. (Vassil Donev/Protos for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart/Map:While well situated to supply markets from Western Europe to theMiddle East, Bulgaria remains cut off because of the Balkan conflicts nearby. But its economy is beginning to grow with the help of outside investment. POPULATION 2000: 8.15 millionAREA: 42,822 square miles (slightly smaller than Pennsylvania)G.D.P. 1999: $12.4 billionG.D.P. PER PERSON: $1,520ECONOMY PERCENT OF G.D.P.AGRICULTURE: 15.1%MANUFACTURING: 14.5OTHER INDUSTRY: 8.9SERVICES: 61.5UNEMPLOYMENT 2000: 16.4%TRADEEXPORTS 1999: $4.0 billionIMPORTS 1999: $4.7 billion Graph tracks export and import change from 1993- 1999. (Sources: Population Reference Bureau; World Bank; International Monetary Fund) Map of Bulgaria highlighting Sevlievo: American Standard invested in factories at Sevlievo, Bulgaria. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); VITREOUS PLUMBING FIXTURE MFG (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (58%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BATHROOMS 

COMPANY: TRANE INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) AMERICAN STANDARD COMPANIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (94%) SIC3585 REFRIGERATION & HEATING EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARS (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); SERBIA (92%); BULGARIA (91%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GREECE (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%) BULGARIA; EUROPE; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



439 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Revenues Rise And Legislators Debate Impact 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 17 

 BODY:
State revenues were strong in the first quarter of the fiscal year, but that was mostly an echo of last year's still-booming economy, officials said today, as all sides said that the new data supported their positions in the state budget fight.
 Over all, the state took in $495 million more than Gov. George E. Pataki had projected for the three months ended June 30, according to his budget office. But all of that was due to personal income tax payments for the year 2000, when the economy grew rapidly. 
 Factoring out last year's income tax payments, revenues for the quarter were above the previous year's, but were actually $210 million below the governor's projections, said Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the budget office.
"Virtually every indicator of economic activity slowed, and personal income tax withholding for the quarter, estimated tax payments for the quarter and sales tax collections for the quarter were all below projections," he said.
The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, said the higher-than-expected overall revenues showed that the Republican governor was wrong in trying to restrain state spending this year. Aides to Mr. Pataki and the Republican majority leader of the Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, said the numbers supported their more cautious approach.
The governor, citing the slowing economy, has insisted on staying close to the modest growth in spending reflected in his $86 billion budget proposal. The Assembly Democrats want to spend at least $2 billion more than Mr. Pataki does, including $1.3 billion more on aid to schools. The Republican-controlled Senate has taken a position between the two but closer to the governor's.
New York's budget is already three and a half months overdue. The Senate and Assembly today passed the latest in a series of emergency spending bills intended to keep state government running, this one to last for a week. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about New York State's revenues for the three months ended on June 30 misstated the amount by which total revenues exceeded Gov. George E. Pataki's projection. The excess was $285 million, according to the governor's budget office; $495 million was the amount by which just one source of revenue, personal income tax collections, exceeded the projection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); LEGISLATION (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



440 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Panel Says U.S. Spending On Energy Is Paying Off 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
Money that the federal government has put into research and development for energy efficiency and fossil fuel production during the last 22 years has generally been well spent, a National Academy of Sciences committee said today.
 But the study also found that the government had sometimes used inconsistent accounting to keep track of the costs and benefits of that spending. 
 The committee tracked 17 programs on which the Energy Department had spent $13 billion. It found that the programs had produced about $40 billion in benefits, some of which went to individual companies, but others that accrued to society as a whole. For example, technologies that reduced pollution beyond the levels required by law did not increase profits for industry, but saved the public from environmental damage, the report said. 
Other programs produced benefits by demonstrating technologies that were not yet economic but would become useful options should the price of fuel or electricity rise. Others simply expanded knowledge of technology in ways likely to be helpful later, the report said.
"Most people focus on the realized economic benefits," said Jack S. Siegel, who led the group's subcommittee on fossil fuels energy. "We're trying to point out that there are a variety of other benefits, the environmental benefit, the security benefit, and the options benefits, technologies that may sit on the shelf for a while until market conditions change."
While the study said that the Energy Department had not applied uniform methods to track costs and benefits, it found that federal spending was effective in "fragmented" sectors of the economy, in which individual companies could not afford the research investments.
An example the group cited was low-emissivity glass, which keeps infrared energy from passing through and thus helps winter heating and summer cooling. 
Another example it described was refrigerators. Electricity consumption in refrigerators, the largest users of energy in houses that do not have central air conditioning, is down by two-thirds since 1974, though refrigerators have gotten bigger. By providing research and development money, the government could set consumption standards and cut electricity use -- while saving consumers money, the report said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); HVAC SYSTEMS (68%) ENERGY AND POWER; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (91%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



441 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Rises After Attacks In West Bank And Israel 

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 17 

 BODY:
The month-old cease-fire between Israel and the Palestinians, more a concept than a reality from the start, seemed shakier than ever today with new violence that included the first Palestinian mortar attack against a Jewish neighborhood on Jerusalem's southern rim.
 For its part, Israel continued its policy of targeted killings when an army helicopter fired missiles on a farmhouse in the West Bank town of Bethlehem, killing four men, two of them described as senior figures in the militant Islamic group Hamas. Late tonight the Israeli Army sent infantry and armored reinforcements to the West Bank. 
 Palestinians called the Bethlehem killings an assassination. Israeli officials characterized them as an "interception," saying the Hamas men had been planning a major terrorist attack soon in nearby Jerusalem. 
Either way, the point is that nothing taking place here has enabled a truce brokered by the United States in mid-June to take root. If anything, the two sides have been sliding backward in the last couple of days.
That was forcefully driven home for Israelis on Monday by a suicide bombing that killed two young soldiers and wounded nine others near a train station in a northern Israeli town, Binyamina. Another militant group, Islamic Holy War, claimed responsibility.
With a mixture of dread and gloom, many Israelis say they feel trapped in a new "war of attrition." That term was used in the late 1960's to describe relentless, almost daily, fighting across the Suez Canal between Israel and Egypt, a decade before they signed a peace treaty.
Only this time, the war hits Israelis right at home, not hundreds of miles away in the Sinai Desert. The Binyamina attack happened to succeed. But the army has reported a series of would-be suicide bombers in recent days, leaving many Israelis sensing that their lives depend for now on the vigilance of their security forces, incompetence by the terrorists and maybe a bit of dumb luck.
And Palestinians are hardly any happier with their lot, which has them trapped by Israeli soldiers in enclaves of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, with little prospect for quick improvement in their shattered economy and their unrealized nationalist hopes.
"A war of attrition is exactly what we're in," said Mark Heller, a senior researcher at the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies at Tel Aviv University.
"The atmosphere for the last month or so," Mr. Heller said, "has been one of waiting for another shoe to drop. The question is what will it be, and how big a bomb does it take to pull that trigger?"
Few here were surprised that some triggers were clicked today, and then some, in the wake of the Binyamina bombing.
Israel struck first, hitting the Hamas men in Bethlehem. Hours later, a mortar fired from the West Bank landed in Gilo, an area that Israel considers part of Jerusalem. Because it sits on land captured by the Israelis in the 1967 Middle East war, Palestinians deem it a West Bank settlement.
No one was hurt by the mortar round. It landed in the yard of a building that was under construction.
But the important thing was that it had been fired in the first place. Mortar attacks on Israeli towns by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip may have become common in recent months, but this was believed to be the first launched from the West Bank.
It certainly was the first to touch Jerusalem, and it led to long exchanges of fire tonight between Israeli soldiers and Palestinian gunmen in Beit Jala, a town just south of Gilo.
"The mortar attack on Gilo is a clear barrier that has been broken," said Dore Gold, an adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. An army spokesman called it "a very grave attack," but he declined to say if it meant that yet sterner Israeli reprisals were in store.
Mr. Sharon says he still accepts the cease-fire and is simply waiting for a week of calm to begin a cooling-off period that would be a prelude to real negotiations with Yasir Arafat and his Palestinian Authority. But the Israeli leader is also under pressure from politicians on his right to strike a decisive blow against the Palestinians instead of maintaining the present trend of tit-for-tat reprisals.
Realizing the gravity of the situation, Mr. Arafat reportedly warned Palestinian groups that he wanted no more attacks within Israel's pre-1967 borders. Implicit in that statement was a suggestion that the Palestinian leader looked differently on assaults against Israelis living in West Bank and Gaza settlements.
That is not a distinction shared by Mr. Sharon, nor, polls say, by a strong majority of Israelis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); HAMAS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%) HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL; BINYAMINA (ISRAEL); JERUSALEM; BETHLEHEM (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



442 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
INTERNATIONAL PAPER HAS LOSS OF $313 MILLION

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The International Paper Company lost $313 million in the second quarter, citing a weak economy, the strong dollar and costs related to closings and a merger. The company, based in Stamford, Conn., reported a loss of 65 cents a share for the April-through-June quarter. 
It had a profit of $270 million, or 64 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Before special and extraordinary items, earnings were $64 million, or 13 cents a share. Analysts estimated a profit of 5 cents a share. Second-quarter sales were $6.7 billion, down from $6.8 billion a year ago. The company has announced 4,000 job cuts since April. Special items included charges for closing installations, $465 million before taxes for severance and $32 million in pretax costs for the acquisition of Champion International in Stamford. The shares rose 77 cents, to $39.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); PAPER MFG (90%); MERGERS (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (95%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO 

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (95%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (95%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%) SIC2621 PAPER MILLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



443 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: Veritas Cuts Outlook 

BYLINE:  By Barnaby J. Feder (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 Citing the weak economy, Veritas Software, the leading independent vendor of data storage software, said yesterday that it expected revenue to grow 25 percent to 35 percent during the rest of the year, not 35 percent to 50 percent as previously projected. 
The cautionary note came as Veritas, based in Mountain View, Calif., reported a second-quarter loss of $129 million, or 32 cents a share, on revenue of $390 million, up 42 percent from a year earlier. Pro forma income, as Veritas calls profits before accounting costs for acquisitions and other items not related to its business operations, reached $80 million, up 41 percent from a year earlier. Barnaby J. Feder (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (84%) COMPANY REPORTS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: VERITAS SOFTWARE CORP 

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%) SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



444 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing Apartment Costs Rise; Sales Fall 

BYLINE:  By Terry Pristin (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Despite the softening economy, the average selling price of a Manhattan apartment in the past three months was a record $894,617, an increase of 2 percent over the previous quarter, according to the latest Douglas Elliman Manhattan market overview. In a more striking change, the number of sales declined by 19 percent -- from 2,257 apartments during the second quarter of last year to 1,829 last quarter. 
"The market was surprisingly stable," said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal company, which prepared the report. "The only cause for concern is the decline in volume." He said sales were down because fewer apartments were on the market and many people were waiting to see what happens to the economy. Terry Pristin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%) HOUSING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



445 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing Unemployment, Back In Line 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 New Jersey's unemployment rate rose 0.2 percent in June, drawing even with the national rate, state officials said yesterday. 
The June rate was 4.5 percent, compared with 4.3 percent in May, according to statistics released by the State Department of Labor. The national rate in June was also 4.5 percent. In December 1999, New Jersey and the nation both had unemployment rates of 4.1 percent. New Jersey's rate had been lower ever since. The decline was primarily in the goods-producing sector, which includes construction and manufacturing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); STATISTICS (86%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



446 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: RESTAURANTS; 
A Spirited Cafe Reaches for the Next Decade

BYLINE:  By William Grimes 

 BODY:
AT the upper end of the market, popular Manhattan restaurants tend to live through three stages. At the outset, they make their mark with innovative, high-quality cooking. They bask in the warm glow of flattering reviews. The chef becomes famous. The crowds line up.
 After the first flush of excitement, the restaurant goes about the business of being in business. It does what it does, night after night, and if the kitchen and management are dedicated enough, the energy level and commitment to quality outlive the reviews, even after the founding chef moves on. 
 Eventually, most restaurants enter their third and final stage. The performance begins to sag. The food that seemed innovative now feels a little old hat. The money is still there, so the staff shows up and goes through the motions. It's like "Cats" after the first decade. 
Park Avenue Cafe, which opened to great fanfare in January 1992, is deep into the second phase and showing some signs of crossing the threshold into the third. It's still a good restaurant. When the kitchen is on, it evokes memories of the heady days when David Burke, its chef, made American flavors speak with a new fluency and energy. But after a decade, the restaurant feels a little past its prime.
This does not seem to bother the Upper East Siders who treat it as a beloved neighborhood fixture, a cafe in spirit as well as name, where they can plop down on a banquette, relax in a fully realized J. Crew environment and eat sanely reinterpreted, high-spirited American food. 
Mr. Burke, a distinguished graduate of the River Cafe whose classmates included Charlie Palmer and Larry Forgione, now serves as corporate chef for the Smith & Wollensky Restaurant Group, which owns the restaurant. The menu is his, but his place in the kitchen has been taken by Neil Murphy, formerly of Aureole.
The spirit of the place remains unchanged. The signature "swordchop," one of Mr. Burke's early attention-getters, still holds its place on the menu, a mighty slab of swordfish attached to the collarbone, and it still comes with a numbered tag. The restaurant has served more than 50,000 of them.
A Mediterranean accent now inflects the cooking, a reminder that globalization is creating a borderless free-trade culinary economy in which pasta, to take a prime example, seems as much American or French as it does Italian. The American flag still waves proudly, but fitfully. Two plump quail, surrounded by a bright red slick of chili-fired barbecue sauce and set on a johnnycake, has a Fourth of July picnic feel to it. But it competes with appetizers like artichoke ravioli with arugula, roasted tomatoes and figs wrapped in prosciutto and cavatelli with wild mushrooms and white truffle oil. Both pastas are among the best dishes on the menu. The artichoke filling is suavely creamy, the ravioli casing firm to the bite. The concentrated sugar and salt of the fig and prosciutto work their way into the flavors with a pleasurable insistence.
The cavatelli and mushrooms would easily rate as the most sinfully indulgent experience on the menu if it were not for the formidable terrine of foie gras, served folksy style in a glass jar with fig jam smeared on the hinged lid. This is the whole hog, so to speak. The jar is filled to the brim with pink, chunky, dangerous-looking liver, sealed in place with a nice layer of yellow fat. Only one to a customer, please.
Gazpacho with avocado, with a fierce vinegar burn to it, comes with a crisp roll billed as a shrimp quesadilla, but more like a fried spring roll. It is delicious. A shrimp tail sticks out from each end, making it look like a stylized bull head, which supports the Spanish theme of the dish. Sauteed sweetbreads, not very flavorful and decidedly tough, share plate space with preserved peaches, a tomato-onion salad and an odd truffle-bacon vinaigrette. Many competing flavors add up to one big mess. 
The famous swordchop is still juicy and big-flavored, served with tomato ditalini and lemon broth. It has been joined by a second gimmick dish, Duck, Duck, Duck!, which quick-witted diners will realize is duck prepared three ways, two of them suspect. The roasted breast comes through in fine fashion, but duck meatloaf is obnoxiously herbed with sage and rosemary, and a tall cake of cornmeal wrapped around foie gras mousse has an off-putting richness. 
Richard Leach, the mad scientist whose desserts bristling with sugar antennas and Gehry-esque curved planes put him on the far edge of the architectural school, is still at work. But the productions seem dated now. The pendulum has swung back, and pastry chefs are more likely to aim for the perfect, pared-down apple tart. They taste good, though, especially the cherry tart with almonds and vanilla mascarpone, and the beautifully realized chocolate cube, a thin wall of chocolate containing a solid espresso mousse that you want to move your fork through in slow motion, just for the sensation. 
The restaurant's signature dessert, the admittedly ridiculous Park Avenue Park Bench, really does succeed as theater. With its chocolate slatted bench and leaning lamppost topped by a white chocolate globe, it exudes a strange, twilight melancholy. You almost expect a four-inch Frank Sinatra to stroll over, take a seat and start crooning.
It's a subversive dessert, at odds with the prevailing mood of the restaurant, which looks like a Cracker Barrel made over by Martha Stewart. Fun American folk art enlivens the interior; green checkerboard upholstery and napkins send a wholesome message; and the hapless waiters wear silly ties with a hideous American flag pattern. It's an impressive display of nerdsmanship. While the rest of Manhattan sweats day and night honing its hip edge, the Park Avenue Cafe sails on, like Wrongway Peachfuzz, in the opposite direction. It does what it does, and well enough, to prosper. But the sassy, amusing restaurant of a decade ago is a bit of a plodder now.

Park Avenue Cafe
**
100 East 63rd Street (near Park Avenue); (212) 644-1900

ATMOSPHERE: New American cuisine in a cheery dining room decorated with American folk art.

SOUND LEVEL: On the loud side of medium, but conversation is possible.

RECOMMENDED DISHES: Quail with barbecue sauce and johnnycake, artichoke ravioli, cavatelli with wild mushrooms, swordfish chop, cherry tart, chocolate cube.

SERVICE: Friendly but haphazard and sometimes inattentive.

WINE LIST: A reasonably priced if not terribly adventurous list of more than 200 wines with emphasis on California.

PRICE RANGE: Lunch, appetizers, $9 to $16.50; entrees, $19.50 to $28.50; desserts, $5 to $8.50. Dinner, appetizers, $11.50 to $16; entrees, $19.50 to $42; desserts, $9 to $12. Three-course prix-fixe, $65.

HOURS: Lunch, Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Dinner, Monday through Thursday, 5:30 to 11 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5:30 to midnight; Sunday, 5:30 to 10:30 p.m.

CREDIT CARDS: All major cards.

WHEELCHAIR ACCESS: One step up at entrance, six steps to restrooms.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

SPECIAL FEATURE: A video visit to the restaurant:
http://www.nytimes.com/restaurant

PAST REVIEWS: Restaurant reviews from The New York Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics, are available on New York Today:
www.nytoday.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: AMERICAN FLAVOR -- The Park Avenue Cafe is an Upper East Side fixture. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (84%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (66%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SMITH & WOLLENSKY RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PARK AVENUE CAFE (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



447 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Intends to Shed Its Magazine Unit 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
The downturn in the magazine industry has beaten back one of the giants of worldwide media.
 Two years after financing a magazine intended to test the viability of starting a magazine division, the News Corporation is getting out of the magazine business entirely. Yesterday, Lachlan Murdoch, the company's deputy chief operating officer and the executive in charge of developing the magazine unit, told members of the senior editorial staff at Maximum Golf, the company's one title in the United States, that the magazine was for sale. 
 The decision to sell Maximum Golf comes at a time when the magazine industry is being blitzed with economic stink bombs from all angles, including depressed advertising, increased postal rates, rising paper costs and sinking newsstand sales. A News Corporation executive said that in the current environment the company did not believe it was worth maintaining a magazine publishing infrastructure to publish only one magazine. 
Advertising revenue across American magazines is down 8.2 percent for the month of June, compared with a year ago, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. Leading advertising categories like automotive, technology, media and advertising, finance, real estate, insurance and retail are all down, compared with a year ago. 
The specific depletion of technology advertising -- down by 36 percent in the last year, according to the bureau -- has caused layoffs at almost all the technology and Internet magazines. 
The Industry Standard, published by Standard Media International, plans to announce a third major round of layoffs, possibly before the end of this week, a Standard executive said. Salaries for remaining workers may be reduced as much as 15 percent, the executive said. 
The Industry Standard's advertising pages have dropped 80 percent, to 141 pages for the six months ended in June, from 711 for the period in 2000, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. Revenue is down 72 percent, to $4.2 million from $14.8 million. 
Jonathan Weber, the Industry Standard's editor in chief, said the magazine was in crisis, but not dead. 
"The market continues to be weak, and we are looking at a variety of additional cost-saving measures, but no final decisions have been made," he wrote in an e-mail message yesterday.
Publishing executives across the industry expect advertising revenue to sink through the rest of the year. Newsstand and subscription sales are also down. 
Maximum Golf, which recently raised its guaranteed circulation and had a relatively steady group of endemic advertisers, has two possible buyers. Both AOL Time Warner, whose Time Inc. group publishes over 60 consumer titles, including Golf magazine, and Dennis Publishing, publishers of Maxim, are considering making bids for the magazine in the next two weeks, according to executives at the News Corporation and AOL Time Warner.
Maximum Golf recently raised its rate base to 360,000 from 300,000, and, at a year old, has just filed for its first audit report from the Audit Bureau of Circulations.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Wednesday about the News Corporation's decision to sell Maximum Golf referred incorrectly to the effect on the company's magazine operations. The company will remain in the business through its ownership of The Weekly Standard; it will not leave the business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); NEWSSTANDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GOLF (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); POSTAL RATES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (52%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (52%) MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (93%); TIME INC (84%); AOL INC (62%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP; MAXIMUM GOLF (MAGAZINE); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); AOL (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



448 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Registers 73% Decline In Net Income For Quarter 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation posted a sharp decline in profits yesterday because of rising competition from Asian carmakers, cooling demand for cars in the United States and disappointing sales in Europe.
 Including problems with its Isuzu Motors affiliate in Japan, General Motors said net income for the second quarter slid 73 percent from the period a year earlier. 
 "The quarter was better than our low expectations," said John Casesa, an automotive analyst at Merrill Lynch. "The main reason is that while the consumer is more cautious, he hasn't gone on strike yet and is still buying big trucks." 
For the three months ended June 30 General Motors earned $477 million, or $1.03 a diluted share, compared with earnings of $1.75 billion, or $2.93 a diluted share. 
The results include a one-time charge of $133 million, or 23 cents a share, for Isuzu. General Motors said it would no longer feel the effect of Isuzu's operating losses, having now written down its 49 percent stake in the Japanese company to zero.
Excluding the charge, General Motors earned $610 million, or $1.26 a share. The consensus estimate among analysts had been $1.14 a share. 
General Motors shares, which have risen 32 percent this year, fell $1.05 each on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, closing at $65.99. 
Revenue for the three months fell 5.3 percent, to $46.1 billion, down from $48.7 billion in last year's second quarter. 
In a conference call with analysts and reporters, John Devine, the company's chief financial officer and vice chairman, said that "over all, it was a pretty good quarter." He added, "It wasn't great from an earnings standpoint, but relative to the reduction in output, it was pretty good." 
To deal with bloated dealer inventories, General Motors cut North American production by 13 percent, to 1.36 million cars and light trucks. Those cuts followed a 20 percent reduction in output during the first quarter. Analysts said production was likely to fall a bit further in the current quarter. 
Wendy Needham, a stock analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, estimates overall automotive output will decline about 6 percent in the third quarter, traditionally Detroit's slowest period. 
"Things are getting better in Detroit," Ms. Needham said, "but they are still down."
David Healy, a stock analyst at Burnham Securities, said that "unless the rest of the economy goes off the end of a cliff, the inventory recession in the auto business is over." 
Ms. Needham and other analysts said they were pleasantly surprised with General Motors' performance in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, where the company recorded a profit of $31 million. Net income for those regions during the second quarter of last year was just $1 million. 
And GMAC, the company's finance arm, earned a record $449 million, an increase of more than 13 percent from $395 million in the second quarter of 2000.
But the company's European operations continued to be troubled. General Motors lost $154 million in Europe, a sharp deterioration from the $166 million in earnings reported a year earlier. The company cited fierce price competition and an unfavorable product mix.
"We set a metric to improve in Europe in the second half," Mr. Devine said. "We are not at all pleased with our results there." 
He declined to predict when the European operations would return to profitability. 
North American operations, which provide the bulk of General Motors' profits, earned $521 million in the second quarter, compared with $1.4 billion a year earlier. 
Sales in North America fell 12 percent, and net prices were down about 0.8 percent. Intense competition from Asian carmakers, especially the Japanese, is putting downward pressure on prices, Mr. Devine said. 
"In the last six months the yen has weakened 9 percent against the dollar," he said. "We don't want to be crybabies, because we will compete in the marketplace. But this is hurting us." 
To mitigate the price advantage of the Japanese, American automakers have been offering cash incentives of as much as $3,000, crimping profit margins. 
Mr. Casesa said Japan's success had more to do with its products than with the sagging value of the yen. 
"The Japanese story is 80 percent product and 20 percent currency," he said. "They have had an enormous revival."
General Motors' Hughes Electronics unit was another drag on overall performance. Hughes lost $156 million in the second quarter, much greater than the $64 million loss a year earlier. 
Hefty marketing and subscriber-acquisition costs are hindering the satellite unit of Hughes, known as DirecTV, which is up for sale. The largest home satellite television provider in the United States, DirecTV has once again lowered its estimate of net new subscribers for this year. 
General Motors is in negotiations to sell Hughes to the News Corporation. Mr. Devine declined to comment on the status of the discussions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STRIKES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); ISUZU MOTORS LTD (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); 7202 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: JOHN M DEVINE (58%) GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



449 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Has to Be Managed 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten is the dean of the Yale School of Management and author of "The Mind of the C.E.O."

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
As the presidents and prime ministers of the seven industrialized nations prepare to gather later this week in Genoa, Italy, the global economy has come to resemble a balloon rapidly losing air. The world's three largest economies -- in the United States, the European Union and Japan -- are slumping, and the financial and trading connections among them are reinforcing the downward spiral. Emerging markets from Argentina to Turkey to Indonesia have serious financial problems, too, all of which are made worse by the slowing of the world's major economies. Corporate profits everywhere are evaporating, and stock markets are weakening.
 The G-7 meeting will be a crucial test for President Bush. Until now, he has said little about the global economy, much less offered any strategy on globalization other than rhetorical support for free trade. This will have to change. The forces that have increased flows of money, goods, services and information around the globe and helped create growth are now working to make the economic downturn deeper and more widespread. 
 Few mechanisms now exist to manage globalization. Cooperation among governments is increasing, but it is still uneven. We live in a world economy, but we lack institutions that could stabilize and regulate this economy. For example, stocks and bonds are traded around the world and around the clock, but there is nothing like a world Securities and Exchange Commission to oversee regulation. Food and pharmaceuticals are traded freely, but there is no global entity to ensure safety standards.
President Bush and the other G-7 leaders have to decide whether they have the foresight to construct new systems that can regulate commerce across borders as well as act to moderate a worldwide recession.
If they fail to build such systems, they face two risks. First, because of the connection of markets and financial systems, if problems in one part of the world are not successfully addressed, they will spread to other parts. In 1998 a currency crisis in Thailand created a financial debacle that engulfed Asia and Latin America and even threatened American banking. Today, the retrenchment of American technology companies has created another kind of contagion. As companies like Cisco, Lucent and Motorola contract their businesses, they cut back on purchases from abroad. That has contributed to a slowdown in the Asian economies, which are heavily dependent on exporting electronic components to the United States. Conversely, because American firms rely heavily on Asia to buy their products, contraction in countries like Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea will make it more difficult for our economy to resume its growth.
The second risk of failing to manage globalization is political. Unfettered market forces can lead to job losses and financial problems that could create a backlash against foreign investment and result in protectionism and overregulation. These developments would hurt our own recovery.
The Bush administration has shown little interest in grappling with these issues. It has demonstrated skepticism about intervening to help developing countries in financial difficulty. It has seemed critical of the attention that previous administrations gave to economic relations with Japan. Faced with rising steel imports, the president has taken steps likely to result in higher tariffs or quotas. 
But in light of the slowing world economy, Mr. Bush will not be able to avoid engaging the issues of globalization for long. He will have no choice but to lead the movement for new global trade negotiations, which will require expending enormous political capital to push Congress to give the administration authority to negotiate trade agreements.
Mr. Bush will also have to work closely with other G-7 leaders to avoid the prospect of a global recession. At minimum, they need to make sure that their policies toward interest rates, currencies, and banking and labor issues will collectively produce enough economic stimulus. They also need to consider how to forestall economic collapse in Argentina.
The recent E.U. veto of the proposed merger between General Electric and Honeywell shows that the administration should push for more coordinated global rules for antitrust policy. It should make aggressive efforts to build a better global system for intellectual property rights.
Finally, the administration and the G-7 nations will have to address the widening divide between rich and poor nations. This means providing more debt relief and increasing humanitarian aid to combat diseases like AIDS, as well as helping to build basic health systems in poor countries. 
This may seem like an ambitious agenda for President Bush, given his administration's reticence about international engagement. But since the end of World War II, every administration has eventually faced up to its international economic responsibilities. Some started early; some were dragged into the fray by events. In view of the precarious economic situation today, the Bush administration cannot wait too long. Genoa would be a good place to make the leap.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Gelman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TRENDS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BONDS (71%); CURRENCIES (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) GROUP OF SEVEN 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GARTEN, JEFFREY E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (92%); ITALY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); THAILAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



450 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Senator Says Most Americans Want Controls on Light Arms 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 17 

 BODY:
Senator Dianne Feinstein said today that a majority of Americans would not approve of efforts by the United States to derail the talks here on an international agreement to tighten controls on light weapons. 
 Senator Feinstein, a California Democrat, is part of an American delegation to a conference on small arms here. She also said in a telephone interview from Washington that the American gun lobby was presenting other nations with a distorted view of American opinion on gun control. 
 The United States, with both a large gun industry and sound gun-registration laws, should be leading the way in demanding better marking and tracing of weapons worldwide, not trying to block such moves, she said. 
Many of the 189 member nations represented here want an agreement that would make tracking small arms -- from pistols to grenades and light missiles -- easier and more reliable. They would also like at least an admonition against the unrestricted sales of weapons to civilians. 
In a Senate speech on Monday and in the interview today, Senator Feinstein took strong exception to the perception created by Bush administration officials and their supporters here that Americans fear that the United Nations is threatening their right to own guns.
On Monday, Representative Bob Barr, a Georgia Republican and member of the National Rifle Association board, said the United Nations should limit itself to stopping the flow of illegal guns into areas of conflict, or it would risk alienating Congress and would put future payments in jeopardy. 
Congress still owes $582 million it agreed to pay the United Nations to pay part of the back dues the United States owes. By United Nations calculations, the United States now owes the organization more than $1.9 billion. 
"I do not believe that Mr. Barr speaks for a majority of the American people," Ms. Feinstein said today. "I believe he speaks from the National Rifle Association perspective. He certainly doesn't speak for California. It's now well established that Californians want controls on weapons. California has 34 million people -- this isn't a peanut of a state." 
She said that she, and her constituents, would support a treaty that called for international tracing of weapons and openness in gun sales. "So much of the legal sales appear to go into the black market that this transparency becomes extraordinarily important," she said. "There have been too many people killed by these arms."
In her Senate speech on Monday, Ms. Feinstein questioned the Bush administration's position opposing international agreements on the grounds that they could constrain legal American arms sales, which are well policed.
"There is good evidence of an increased incidence of U.S.-manufactured weapons, legally manufactured and legally traded or transferred, flowing into the international black market," she said. 
In 1999, the United States licensed more than $470 million in light weapons for export. The United Nations estimates that there are about 500 million illegally acquired guns and light weapons of other kinds in circulation around the world. 
Ms. Feinstein said that last year and so far this year, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms had received more than 19,000 requests from foreign countries to trace guns used in crimes; 8,000 of them had originally been sold legally in the United States. 
She also challenged the frequently repeated assertions by American officials here that the Second Amendment to the Constitution guaranteed individuals the right to own guns. "Mr. Bolton's position on the Second Amendment is in direct contradiction to decades of Supreme Court precedent," she said. "Not one single gun-control law has ever been overturned by the court on Second Amendment grounds."
Ms. Feinstein said that the last attempt to claim constitutional protection for carrying a gun was in 1939, when a man arrested for taking a sawed-off shotgun across state lines lost his request to have the case dismissed by the Supreme Court. 
"If a sawed-off shotgun is not protected by the Second Amendment," she said in the Senate, "why does the administration seem to be taking the position that the Second Amendment protects the international trafficking of shoulder-launched missiles?" 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a United Nations conference that seeks to tighten international controls on light weapons omitted the given name and title of an American official who addressed the conference earlier. He is John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for arms control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (95%); GUN CONTROL (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%) FIREARMS; PUBLIC OPINION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMS SALES ABROAD; GUN CONTROL; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%) UNITED NATIONS

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (92%) BARR, BOB (REPR); FEINSTEIN, DIANNE (SEN); CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



451 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Not All Lost In the Talks Between India And Pakistan 

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: AGRA, India, July 17 

 BODY:
India and Pakistan, foes from way back, did not emerge from an intensive two days of talks here with even a jointly issued, garden-variety press release to show for it. Yet ministers from both countries said today in separate news conferences that the summit had not failed, but helped them better understand each other.
 Pakistan's foreign minister, Abdul Sattar, went further. He said the leaders of the two nations had a meeting of the minds and came "very close" to a deal that would have made possible substantive talks on Kashmir, the main source of their decades-old conflict, as well as nuclear-risk reduction, trade and terrorism. 
 "Both sides are keen to use the progress that has been made as a foundation for further discussion, hopefully leading to full agreement," Mr. Sattar told a roomful of journalists in Islamabad this afternoon, just a day after the negotiations broke down. 
Mr. Sattar and his Indian counterpart, Jaswant Singh, the minister of external affairs, reaffirmed that India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, and Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, plan to keep talking. 
"I don't see this as the end of the exercise," Mr. Singh said this morning here in Agra. "Our commitment to peace and amity remains." 
Mr. Vajpayee's acceptance of an invitation from the general to visit Pakistan still stands, both ministers said. And Mr. Sattar said the leaders are likely to meet before that in New York when the United Nations General Assembly convenes in September.
The promise that these two adversaries, both declared nuclear powers, will keep their lines of communication open is not to be taken for granted. 
Until this weekend, it had been two and a half years since their leaders had met, an estrangement that was especially worrisome since India and Pakistan have been locked in a vicious conflict over Kashmir, which both claim, and waged a small, high-altitude war there in the summer of 1999. 
Nor was the temperate, optimistic tenor taken by the two ministers today a foregone conclusion. Last night, it seemed that the mood had soured on both sides. Senior Pakistani officials close to General Musharraf made comments to Pakistani journalists that painted India as an obstructionist on the road to peace. 
Here, there were fears that Pakistan would blame India for aborted talks, inflaming Pakistani public opinion against its long-time enemy. But Mr. Sattar, who often zings India with barbed comments, chose instead to be understated and diplomatic today -- an approach that analysts say may have also been intended to reassure the developed countries and international lenders whose help Pakistan needs if it is to rebuild its troubled economy.
The restrained tone was not matched by some of the militant Islamic groups that are battling against India in Kashmir. Today they seized on the breakdown at the summit meeting as evidence that holy war against Indian rule of majority-Muslim Kashmir is now the only path. 
And their comments have raised fears that there may be a spurt of violence in Kashmir. Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, who heads Lashkar-e-Toiba, a hard-line group based in Islamic Pakistan, told reporters in Lahore today that the group would now intensify its holy war. 
When it comes to India and Pakistan, Kashmir is the inescapable issue. 
Neither minister fully spelled out today what had derailed the talks this weekend, but each said disagreement about the wording of sections on Kashmir in what would have been a joint declaration was at the heart of the problem. 
Mr. Sattar said the two sides could not agree on what he called "the residual paragraph" that dealt with "the relationship between the settlement of the Kashmir problem and the progress on normalization." General Musharraf has taken the position that until Kashmir is recognized as the central dispute and addressed, India and Pakistan cannot seriously talk about solutions on any other major issues. 
That snag was a major one for the Indians. For decades, India has argued that Kashmir is just one of many important issues to be discussed and that the two countries should tackle some easier-to-solve disagreements first. 
"We do not believe bilateral negotiations between India and Pakistan can be held hostage by a single issue," Mr. Singh said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%); RELIGION (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%) DUGGER, CELIA W; SATTAR, ABDUL (MIN); SINGH, JASWANT (MIN); VAJPAYEE, ATAL BIHARI (PRIME MIN); MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (94%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (74%) INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



452 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
DeVito/Verdi, on its 10th anniversary, makes some changes.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
A NEW YORK agency that flourished during tough times is hoping history can repeat itself.
 The agency is DeVito/Verdi, known for a brash, sassy creative approach typically described as smart aleck -- or another word beginning the same way that cannot be repeated here. Its best-known output includes campaigns for New York magazine ("Possibly the only good thing in New York Rudy hasn't taken credit for"); Solgar ("It's a tough town. You need a tough vitamin"); the Pro-Choice Public Education Project ("Seventy-seven percent of anti-abortion leaders are men. One hundred percent of them will never be pregnant"); Empire Kosher Poultry ("It takes an even tougher man to make a kosher chicken"); and eCampus.com ("Textbooks and stuff. Cheap"). 
 DeVito/Verdi, which also produced ads for Hillary Clinton's Senate race last year, is making a series of operating changes that coincide with a celebration of the 10th anniversary of the collaboration between Sal DeVito, partner and creative director, and Ellis J. Verdi, partner and president. The anniversary events include a retrospective of the agency's work at the prestigious One Club for Art and Copy.
The changes include the naming of two executives as partners, the formation of a division to specialize in public relations and a search for a top creative executive who would work with Mr. DeVito.
"It was a tough time then," Mr. DeVito, 53, said of the days when a recession gripped Madison Avenue, "but we didn't seem to feel it."
"Recession, depression or boom, I don't see any difference in the kind of advertising I would do," he added. "We didn't start out to be outrageous; we started out to be heard."
Mr. DeVito, originally an award-winning art director, described his goal as to create ads that are "smart, focused, with a voice, getting noticed, but with a selling message," rather than to produce campaigns that are "outrageous for the sake of outrage," an opinion often expressed about the DeVito/Verdi oeuvre. "I really try to sell the product, believe it or not," Mr. DeVito said.
The agency was opened in 1989 as Follis & Verdi by Mr. Verdi and John Follis, partner and creative director. In 1991, Mr. DeVito joined as a second partner and creative director and the agency was renamed Follis DeVito Verdi. When Mr. Follis left in July 1993, citing "philosophical differences," to open his own New York agency, now known as Follis Advertising, Follis DeVito Verdi became DeVito/Verdi, minus a name but plus a slash.
"When people ask 'How do you survive these times?' I say, 10 years ago the agency went through this and thrived," Mr. Verdi, 45, said.
"Like any agency, you get tagged for your most visible work," he added, "but I don't mind it because every one of those ads" derided as gratuitously provocative "makes a clear, concise statement."
"We have to be interruptive because we can't afford not to be," Mr. Verdi said. "It's a fine line in some people's minds, but it's a very important line we try to delineate in client meetings."
The newest client of DeVito/Verdi, The Sporting News, the weekly sports newspaper owned by Vulcan Ventures, praises the agency's approach.
"In this day and age, if you want to be heard, you have to be -- I hate to use the cliche -- a little out of the box," said Stuart Marvin, vice president for marketing at The Sporting News in New York.
"DeVito/Verdi's work is a little more intrusive, not for the sake of being so but grounded in strategy," he added. "I'm quite frankly surprised the agency isn't larger and more successful than it already is."
For The Sporting News, a trade campaign introduced last week by DeVito/Verdi carries this cheeky headline that seeks to differentiate the sports publication from its many competitors: "Music, fashion and sports without all the damn music and fashion."
Mary Warlick, executive director at the One Club, said that the DeVito/ Verdi genre of "in-your-face advertising broke ground 10 years ago, and they're still doing it."
She said she was particularly pleased to mount the retrospective, which continues through Aug. 23, because agencies based in New York have "taken their share of hits, economically and creatively."
"It's nice to salute a New York agency," she added, laughing, "because how many of them are there left?"
As for the changes at DeVito/Verdi -- which now has 64 employees and estimates its billings at $134 million from clients including the American Civil Liberties Union, Canon USA, Daffy's, 8 O'Clock Coffee, the For Eyes optical chain and The Sporting News -- the two new partners are Andy Brief, 41, who heads account management, and Chris Tinkham, 45, who heads media planning and buying and promotions.
The new division, DeVito/Verdi Public Relations, is being headed by Nathana Josephs, 42, as director; she previously had her own public relations business. The division is working for For Eyes and the Pro-Choice Education Project.
As for hiring another creative director, Mr. Verdi said, Mr. DeVito "is talking to some people," adding: "Sal will always be in control, but there is a need at this point, due to growth, for a high-level creative person whose title would include 'partner.' I am not sure how or if Sal's title would then change; it's to be determined."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, a campaign for New York magazine on a bus placard. At right, Ellis J. Verdi, president of DeVito/Verdi, left, and Sal DeVito, creative director. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); (DeVito/Verdi) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ABORTION (75%); POULTRY (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); TEXTBOOKS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (64%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: DEVITO/VERDI 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) ELLIOTT, STUART; DEVITO, DANNY; VERDI, ELLIS J; BRIEF, ANDY; TINKHAM, CHRIS; JOSEPHS, NATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



453 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Earnings at Apple Beat Expectations; Sales Miss Target 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Apple Computer Inc. reported quarterly earnings yesterday that exceeded Wall Street's expectations, but its sales were slightly below analysts' estimates. 
 The quarterly results suggest that Apple is managing its business efficiently during a difficult period for the personal computer business and the economy. But the soft revenue figures, analysts say, also indicate that the main issue surrounding Apple -- whether it can expand beyond its base of dedicated users and increase its share of the PC market -- remains unresolved. 
 Apple reported profits for its fiscal third quarter, ended in June, of $61 million, or 17 cents a share, 3 cents above the consensus estimate on Wall Street. Yet reflecting the sharp slowdown in the industry, profits were well below the same quarter last year, when Apple earned $200 million, or 55 cents a share.
Sales for the quarter were $1.48 billion. The Wall Street consensus estimate for revenue was $1.55 billion. But Fred D. Anderson, the chief financial officer of Apple, said in a conference call with analysts that part of the shortfall in the comparison was explained by the company's program of further reducing inventory in its distribution channels. After adjusting for lower inventory levels, Mr. Anderson said the "implied revenue" figure for the quarter was $1.53 billion.
For the current quarter, which ends in September, Mr. Anderson said that Apple expected revenues and sales to be "up slightly" from the June quarter, and that he did not foresee an imminent recovery.
In after-hours trading, Apple shares -- after rising $1.14 to $25.10 during the day -- fell to $22.75. Analysts attributed the selling to Mr. Anderson's cautious assessment of the outlook and the slight shortfall in the revenue figures for the quarter. 
Still, gross profit margins for Apple were 29.4 percent, well ahead of analysts' expectations, and it has $4.2 billion in cash and short-term securities -- an impressive nest egg for a company whose survival was in doubt a few years ago.
Apple is also introducing products that are having an impact. The company shipped more than 182,000 of its new iBook notebook machines intended for the consumer and education markets. Recent market research surveys show that it has regained the lead in the kindergarten-through-high school market from Dell Computer. And at the MacWorld conference in New York today, Steven P. Jobs, the Apple chairman, is expected to introduce new versions of its popular iMac desktop computers.
And Apple has achieved a respectable financial performance in difficult times without laying off workers, a tactic used by most personal computer makers. "I'm pretty pleased with these results," Mr. Jobs said in an interview. "Our strategy is to innovate our way through this difficult period. We're going to leverage our innovative people instead of laying them off."
Apple's strategy includes introducing machines with striking looks, its new Mac OS X operating system for an improved user experience and multimedia software like iMovie and iTunes, adding new uses to personal computing. In addition, Apple is opening its own retail stores, with the first two in May, and 25 expected to be open by year-end.
The stores are considered strategically important for Apple as venues for showing its wares, especially in persuading other PC users to switch to Apple's Macintosh technology. "For Apple to grow, it has to get new users, and they have to get switchers to make this story work," Charles R. Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (79%) LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



454 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Other People's Money

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
It wasn't true when Richard Nixon said it, but it is true today: We are all Keynesians now -- at least when we look at our own economy. We give anti-Keynesian advice only to other countries.
 When it comes to the U.S. economy, everyone -- including people who imagine that they have rejected Keynesianism in favor of some doctrine more congenial to the free-market faithful -- in practice views the current slowdown in terms of the intellectual framework John Maynard Keynes created 65 years ago. In particular, everyone thinks that during a slump what we need is more spending. 
 Before Keynes, the general view was quite the opposite: economic slumps were supposed to be the invisible hand's way of punishing excesses, and the best cure was supposed to be a good dose of austerity, public and private. Only as a result of the Keynesian revolution did it become obvious to everyone -- so obvious that people take it for granted -- that the problem during a slump is too little spending, not too much, and that recovery depends on persuading the public to start spending again. 
So every time you read an article worrying that declining consumer confidence may tip us into recession, or that interest rate cuts will soon spark a recovery, or even that this time interest rate reductions may not do the trick, you are reading Keynesian economics. Like the man who was unaware that he had been writing prose all his life, these writers may not know that they are Keynesians -- but they are.
And you would have to search far and wide to find anyone who thinks that the U.S. government should slash spending and raise taxes to offset the budget impact of this year's downturn, or who thinks that the Fed is wrong to cut interest rates in the face of a slump. (There are some people who think that the Fed has overdone it -- but they aren't opposed to the policy in principle.) 
But we -- by which I mean both policy makers in Washington and bankers in New York -- often seem to prescribe for other countries the kind of root-canal economics that we would never tolerate here in the U.S.A.
Yesterday former Senator Howard Baker, our new ambassador to Japan, told reporters he did not expect to see that country drive down the value of the yen. Aside from being inappropriate -- exchange rate policy is a highly sensitive subject, about which even the secretary of the Treasury needs to be highly circumspect -- this comment was part of a pattern of hints from U.S. officials that we would not like to see Japan weaken its currency. Since it is very difficult to imagine a recovery strategy for Japan that does not involve at least the possibility of a much weaker yen, this amounts to telling the Japanese that they cannot do what we do routinely, that is, print however much money it takes to get the economy moving again.
And then, of course, there's Argentina. What's shocking about the political and economic crisis there is not so much its severity -- though it is amazing to see the punishment now being inflicted on a country that just three years ago was the toast of Wall Street -- as how gratuitous it is. We're talking about a government whose debt really isn't very large compared with the size of its national economy, and whose fairly modest budget deficit is entirely the product of an economic slump, forced into drastic spending cuts that will further worsen that slump. It wouldn't be tolerated here -- but the bankers in New York tell the Argentines that they have no alternative. And Washington -- not the Bush administration, which has been eerily silent as Argentina melts down, but the conservative think tanks that helped the country bind itself in a monetary straitjacket -- agrees.
Does it have to be this way? Is Keynesianism good only for the U.S. and selected other Western countries, but out of bounds for everyone else? Maybe. But I suspect that the core of the problem is that small countries, and even big countries like Japan that have lost their self-confidence, are too easily bullied by men in suits who give them advice dictated by a hard-line ideology they would never try to impose back home. 
My advice would be to stop listening to those men in suits, and do as we do, not as we say. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); WRITERS (69%); TRENDS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); CURRENCIES (63%); JAPANESE YEN (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ECONOMICS 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; KEYNES, JOHN MAYNARD (1883-1946) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



455 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
A Strong Rally in Stocks On Positive Profit Reports
A handful of positive earnings reports set off a broad-based rally on Wall Street, sending the Dow Jones industrial average up 1.3 percent as investors grew more confident about companies' prospects in the months ahead.
 The Dow rose 134.27 points, to 10,606.39. Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.9 percent, gaining 38.20 points, to 2,067.32, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 11.99 points, or 1 percent, to 1,214.44. Page C12. 

Layoffs for Coca-Cola Enterprises
Coca-Cola Enterprises, the bottling company responsible for about 80 percent of Coca-Cola's soft-drink sales in North America, will cut 2,000 jobs, or 3 percent of its work force. It reported a 6.6 percent drop in net income, to $114 million, or 27 cents a share, 2 cents below forecasts. Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises fell $2.68, to $15.05. C6.

Broadcasters Seek Looser Rules
As federal regulators prepare to loosen or eliminate the rules that have restricted broadcasters from growing bigger and owning newspapers, senior executives from Viacom and Tribune asked the Senate to let regulators proceed without intervention. C4.

Argentine Plan to Erase Deficits
The Argentine government negotiated an agreement with 14 opposition governors to unite behind the plan of the economic minister, Domingo Cavallo, to erase budget deficits of national and provincial governments. A12.

Apple Earnings Beat Expectations
Apple Computer reported earnings that exceeded Wall Street's expectations, but its sales were below analysts' estimates. C10.

News Corp. to End Magazine Venture
The News Corporation is quitting the magazine business entirely by putting its lone American title, Maximum Golf, up for sale. C4.

Taking Charge in the Huddle
William R. Johnson, chief executive of H. J. Heinz, said he was imbued with competitive spirit and energy growing up in a sports family. His father was a player and coach in the N.F.L. for 40-plus years. "It's helped me succeed," he said. As a child, though, "I used to get so emotionally involved," he said, "that I'd get sick before games." The Boss. C8.

Bristol-Myers to Invest in Exelixis
Bristol-Myers Squibb will pay $20 million for a small stake in Exelixis, a genomics concern, the two are expected to announce today. C8.

Additional Job Cuts at Royal Philips
Royal Philips Electronics of the Netherlands, Europe's leading electronics manufacturer, said it would shed 4,000 additional jobs, bringing its total for the year to more than 10,000. World Business, Section W.

House Committee Endorses Drilling
House Republicans moved swiftly to transform President Bush's energy plan into legislation as a committee for the first time endorsed the White House plan to drill for oil in an arctic wildlife refuge. A19.

Robust Corporate Airplane Market
Flight delays and increased waiting times in the commercial airline system have helped the corporate jet market bloom, a study has found. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,606.39 up 134.27Nasdaq composite -- 2,067.32 up 38.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.20% up 0.04The euro -- $0.8591 up 0.0037The dollar -- 125.04 yen down 0.43 Graph: "TODAY" shows consumer price index from December 2000-May 2001. June figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Expected: +0.1% Graph "TODAY" shows housing construction from December 2000-May 2001. June figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Expected: -1.4% Graph tracks share prices of Coca-Cola Enterprises for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SOFT DRINK MFG (74%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (91%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (84%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (83%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); VIACOM INC (55%); H J HEINZ CO (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (51%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (51%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (91%); NWS (ASX) (91%); CCE (PAR) (83%); CCE (NYSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); HNZ (NYSE) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (51%); PHIA (BIT) (51%); PHIA (AMS) (51%); PHG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (53%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (53%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%) SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & WATER; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); WILLIAM R JOHNSON (50%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



456 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Protesters at Bay, Rich Nations' Chiefs to Meet in Genoa 

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY with WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 17 

 BODY:
Multiple checkpoints, bomb-sniffing dogs and 13-foot iron gratings put up across cobbled alleys to seal off secure zones have given the medieval port city of Genoa the look of pre-1989 East Berlin. 
 On Friday, a summit meeting for the world's major industrial nations will begin here and is expected to draw more than 100,000 antiglobalization protesters. Tension and security fears are already high. 
 The meeting will bring together the leaders of the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Canada and Russia. A few radical groups have pledged to break through the police lines. 
As many as 60 bomb scares, all of them false alarms, were reported across the city today. On Monday, a police officer was injured when a mail bomb went off in a police station. The explosion puts more pressure on an already tense security force of 16,000 police officers and military men armed with riot sticks, water cannons and tear gas to secure the city for the meeting, which will last through Sunday.
Tonight, the police arrested one would-be demonstrator, a 25-year-old woman from Germany who was suspected of smuggling into Genoa rocks and other objects that could be handy in a riot. 
The rigid security restrictions being set up to prevent the kind of violence that disrupted previous international meetings -- from Seattle in 1999 to Goteborg, Sweden, last month -- seem to be straining the patience of some of the world leaders who will meet here to discuss world trade and third world debt reduction.
In London, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said today that people have been "far too apologetic" toward the demonstrators who disrupt gatherings of world leaders, and he urged the public to turn its back on them.
"These guys don't represent anyone," Mr. Blair told a group of reporters on the eve of a two-day visit to London by President Bush. 
"If the public knew their views," he said, "they'd disagree with them. I just think we've got to be a lot more robust about this." 
Mr. Bush echoed his remarks today while delivering a speech at the World Bank. "I respect the right to peaceful expression," he said, "but make no mistake -- those who protest free trade are no friends of the poor. Those who protest free trade seek to deny them their best hope for escaping poverty."
Mr. Bush and Mr. Blair both seemed to be reacting at least in part to the more conciliatory approach toward the antiglobalization movement on the continent, and particularly in Italy, which is the host for the summit meeting. 
The meeting is a major test for the newly elected conservative prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. His government has kept open a dialogue with the more moderate protest organizers, and made soothing, sympathetic statements while insisting that Italy will not condone violence.
Italy is planning to shut down the Genoa airport, harbor, highways and train stations, though special trains carrying demonstrators from Germany and France have been given permission to enter the city before the meeting begins. Two protest marches, one on Thursday and the other on Saturday, have been approved by the meeting's organizers as long as the protesters stay clear of the six-mile secure red zone around the meeting's site. 
Mr. Berlusconi, Foreign Minister Renato Ruggiero and other officials have argued that Italy shares the loftier aims of many antiglobalization protesters and will champion such issues as third world debt reduction at the meeting. Italy is holding a cocktail party and dinner so the meeting's leaders can mingle with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, as well as the presidents of South Africa, Nigeria and Bangladesh. 
As hundreds of antiglobalization protesters began pouring into the city by airplane, train, car and bicycle, the police began emptying two jails in the city. 
Officials estimate that as many as 600 people might end up behind bars if the demonstrations turn violent. Weeks ago, city officials put aside 200 coffins, just in case. 
Antiglobalization demonstrators, and especially the Genoa Global Forum, a well-organized umbrella group that represents more than 700 groups, have already succeeded in reshaping the summit meeting before it begins. 
Because of the security concerns, leaders' wives will not have their own event in Genoa. While her husband confers with his counterparts, Laura Bush will visit the American Air Force base in Aviano. 
Foreign ministers, who had planned to meet before the meeting in the nearby resort town of Portofino, instead will gather in Rome on the Wednesday and Thursday. 
Except for Mr. Bush, who will stay at the Jolly Hotel Marina on the waterfront, other leaders will stay on the European Vision, a cruise ship with swimming pools, gyms, saunas, beauty salons and a casino. The port itself is being protected by frogmen and warships. 
"I don't want to be cosseted," Mr. Blair complained today. "I would prefer to be out there in the street with the people. These guys won't let us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers in front of the Ducal Palace, which got its name in 1339 when it became the seat of the first Genoese Doge, Simon Boccanegra. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); DOGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); SMUGGLING (73%); ARRESTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ARMED FORCES (53%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (55%) STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; HOGE, WARREN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ITALY (90%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%) GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



457 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Levy Warns Budget Cuts May Threaten Bilingual Plan 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy warned members of the Board of Education yesterday that their recently approved overhaul of bilingual education programs might have to be postponed because City Hall has not allocated enough money to pay for the changes.
 The warning is the latest round of a bitter battle of words between Mr. Levy and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani over the city's education budget. Mr. Levy says the current budget leaves the school system with $120 million less, after accounting for inflation and mandated spending increases, for the coming year than it had in the year that just ended. 
 Mr. Giuliani, who this month offered to have his budget staff help the Board of Education find potential cuts in its administrative ranks, responded that he found it "amazing" that the Board of Education cannot find enough money for its programs in a $12 billion budget. 
Just last week, Mr. Levy told district superintendents to prepare contingency plans for $120 million in budget cuts but said that administrative costs should be cut before classroom programs. 
Yesterday, Mr. Levy expanded his warning to classroom programs, including the $75 million bilingual reform approved unanimously by the board in February. The new program would expand dual-language programs, require more new teachers, increase teacher training and give parents more control over what programs their children take.
In a memorandum to the seven board members, released by his office yesterday, Mr. Levy said, "Until funding for these programs is secured -- the current budget does not include any additional support for English Language Learners -- we cannot be certain we can implement the program as proposed."
Also at risk are recently recommended changes in mathematics instruction, Mr. Levy said, which "will be limited by the absence of incremental resources."
Mr. Levy also said that he has told his staff to study the way federal Title I money is allocated to city schools, a system which he said drives money out of the schools that need it most. He would like his staff to see whether they can direct more money to those needy schools. Because of peculiarities of the poverty estimates on which those allocations are based, schools in the Bronx with the highest numbers of poor students will receive $552 per student in federal Title I money in the coming year, down from $597 per student last year. To contrast, schools in Staten Island with high concentrations of poor students will receive $1,710 per student in the coming year, up from $1,270 last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (91%); APPROVALS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (79%); CHILDREN (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); MATHEMATICS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (74%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (73%); POVERTY RATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BILINGUAL EDUCATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (76%) LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



458 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: BUSH URGES SHIFT TO DIRECT GRANTS FOR POOR NATIONS 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI with DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
President Bush called today for a major change in the way rich nations help poorer countries, proposing that up to 50 percent of aid to those countries from the World Bank and similar institutions be given as direct grants rather than loans for needs like education and health.
 Mr. Bush, calling these grants a way to help alleviate the debt that burdens developing economies, said they should be used increasingly as substitutes for heavily discounted loans that the World Bank provides now. He promoted the approach in a speech at the World Bank headquarters here to state his commitment to fighting world poverty. Excerpts, Page A10. 
 "This is compassionate conservatism at an international level, and it's the responsibility that comes with freedom and prosperity," Mr. Bush said in remarks intended to set the stage for a European trip later this week.
"The needs are many and undeniable," Mr. Bush said. "And they are a challenge to our conscience and to complacency. A world where some live in comfort and plenty, while half of the human race lives on less than $2 a day, is neither just, nor stable."
During Mr. Bush's last trip to Europe he confronted and in many ways stoked the apprehensions of European leaders who felt that he was putting the United States' interests above its international obligations. With his speech today, he seemed to be trying to dispel that perception abroad while also showing a more moderate side to voters at home. 
But Mr. Bush's remarks today did not take into account nor delineate how expensive such a change in the way the World Bank operates would be. Nor did the president say how -- or whether -- the United States and other wealthy nations that give the bank its primary financial support would pay for the added cost.
Currently, the United States contributes $803 million annually to the World Bank. This money, with contributions from other nations, allows the World Bank to make loans totaling $15 billion each year -- $6 billion of that to poor countries as heavily discounted loans. The World Bank has estimated that in the next decade the United States would need to double its contribution just to maintain the current level of aid.
The president's vision for the World Bank carried a different emphasis than the one that the organization's president, James Wolfensohn, struck in comments he made on Monday. Mr. Wolfensohn said the most important step that rich countries could take was not giving loans and grants but opening their markets more fully to exports from poorer countries.
"We must recognize that it is simply hypocritical to give debt relief with one hand and then deny poor countries the ability to export their way out of poverty with the other," Mr. Wolfensohn said. 
These issues are likely to be discussed this weekend at a summit meeting in Genoa, Italy, where the president will meet with the leaders of the other largest industrial economies during a time of economic slowdown in Europe and the United States and recession in Japan.
But the focus of much of the Genoa discussions will be on restoring growth in the economies of the world's wealthiest nations, it is unclear how much attention or support Mr. Bush's ideas for the World Bank will receive.
But it was his remarks about the World Bank today that drew the most attention, and critics focused on the financial implications for the organization. They noted that because the World Bank depends on repayments of existing loans to have money for new loans or for the grants, it would encounter a shortfall and have less money to use under Mr. Bush's proposal.
Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said that would not be a factor in the short term. "It will be 10 years before this makes a difference," she said. "But we understand that this will require some greater commitments."
She also noted that, like Mr. Wolfensohn, "The president said it's important to open markets." But she acknowledged a longstanding tension, which the administration had yet to resolve, between that goal and its belief that "it's also important to protect American farmers."
Mr. Bush's speech comes as the administration is rethinking how the United States should deal with the World Bank, which fights poverty, and the International Monetary Fund, its sister organization, which deals with financial crises.
Last month, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill called for an overhaul of the World Bank. His concept was to focus the bank's programs on increasing a country's productivity and aiding its development of a self-sufficient economy.
Mr. Bush echoed that theme today, saying that the bank and similar organizations "should focus on raising productivity in developing nations, especially through investments in education."
World Bank officials, with some exasperation in their voices, say they have been doing exactly that for the past few years. As Mr. Wolfensohn has moved the institution away from grand projects like building hydroelectric dams and toward education programs and credit assistance to people starting small businesses.
But the bank's programs often go awry because of local corruption or the conflict between the bank's plans and those of local and national leaders. It is unclear how, according to Mr. Bush's vision, that problem would be surmounted.
Mr. Bush's remarks today dwelled more on his broad vision for the United States' role in helping developing countries than on specific prescriptions. They were delivered with an eye toward where he would be traveling, whom he would be seeing and how he wanted them to see him.
"We have, today, the opportunity to include all the world's poor in an expanding circle of development, throughout all of the Americas, all of Asia and all of Africa," Mr. Bush said. "This is a great moral challenge, what Pope John Paul II called placing the freedom of the market in the service of human freedom in its totality."
During his trip, Mr. Bush will meet the pope, a visit closely watched by many Catholics. Bush administration officials have been assiduously courting Catholic voters and know that Mr. Bush risks angering some of them if he decides, in coming weeks, to permit federal support for embryonic stem cell research.
As on his last trip to Europe, Mr. Bush is expected to encounter protests, many by groups opposed to globalization. But Mr. Bush said today that less restricted trade was one of the best ways to help developing countries.
"Those who protest free trade are no friends of the poor," he said. "Those who protest free trade seek to deny them their best hope for escaping poverty."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at the World Bank's headquarters in Washington, where he urged "compassionate conservatism at an international level." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CONSERVATISM (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D; BRUNI, FRANK; SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



459 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Triangular Diplomacy 

 BODY:
The new treaty of "friendship and cooperation" between Russia and China, signed Monday by Presidents Vladimir Putin and Jiang Zemin, does not signal a return to cold-war tensions with the United States. But it does represent an effort by the Russians and Chinese to strengthen their hands in future diplomatic dealings with Washington. Triangular diplomacy is back, in a new form and with diminished strategic significance. 
 In the cold war, America and Russia were the two superpowers, but China was a pivotal factor in their relations. That three-sided strategic geometry explained the informal alliance between Washington and Beijing that began during the Nixon administration. The two countries were drawn together by shared fears over Soviet military strength and the Kremlin's aggressive diplomacy. But even as Washington cultivated Beijing, it pursued improved relations with Moscow. 
 Today the United States is the world's only military and economic superpower. Russia and China, both under pressure to deliver greater prosperity to their people through market-based growth, vitally depend on continued access to American trade and development. Neither is in any position to challenge Washington's conventional military power. But both are uneasy about the global sweep of American foreign policy, and with this agreement are establishing at least a symbolic barrier to unhindered American domination.
The new treaty commits Russia and China to resolve their own disputes peacefully, consult with each other about emerging threats and oppose any attempts by other countries to interfere in the sovereign affairs of any state. Though the treaty text is full of challenges to American policies, neither of its signatories intends to shun further diplomacy with Washington. 
China will continue its efforts to join the World Trade Organization and increase economic ties with the United States. Russia, as Mr. Putin made plain after his first meeting with President Bush in Slovenia last month, will continue to negotiate with Washington about missile defense, nuclear arms reductions and other mutually important issues. 
But Washington's record of military intervention in Iraq and the Balkans, its promotion of NATO expansion toward Russia's borders and its talk of building a missile shield have helped nudge Russia and China closer together.
Americans see missile defense as a way of protecting themselves against nuclear threats from unpredictable countries like North Korea, Iraq and Iran. Russia and China fear that permitting the development of new defensive technologies could one day undermine their own long-range missile forces. They also worry that with a missile shield in place, Washington might feel freer to intervene militarily in areas where they too have interests, like the Persian Gulf and the Korean Peninsula. 
Moscow and Beijing were unsettled by NATO's 1999 intervention in Kosovo, undertaken to protect ethnic Albanians from persecution by their Serbian rulers. They fear that similar arguments could one day be invoked against Chinese policies in Tibet or Russian actions in Chechnya. 
Though neither Russia nor China is a superpower, both are important. When American policies affect their interests, as is the case with missile defense and, for Russia, NATO expansion, Washington should consult with them carefully and not simply proceed according to its own preferences and timetable. Failure to take Russia and China into account will fan dangerous resentments and drive them away from Washington and toward each other. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (88%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); IRAQ (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TIBET (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); GULF STATES (52%) CHINA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



460 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Rockies: Colorado: State Sues Check-Cashing Company 

BYLINE:  By Mindy Sink (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The state attorney general's office announced that it was suing the nation's largest check-cashing company, which the attorney general, Ken Salazar, accused of violating state law and charging excessively high interest to mostly low-income clients. 
The defendant, ACE Cash Express of Irving, Tex., has about 50 stores in Colorado and operates in more than 30 states. The company surrendered its Colorado lending license last year but said it could still operate because of its affiliation with a federally chartered bank. Mindy Sink (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); LITIGATION (86%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%) BANKS AND BANKING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: ACE CASH EXPRESS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ACE CASH EXPRESS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (58%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (73%) SINK, MINDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) COLORADO

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



461 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Words: 'To Build This Better World' 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's remarks today to the World Bank, as provided by the White House press office: 
 To build this better world, we must be guided by three great goals. First, America and her friends and allies must pursue policies to keep the peace and promote prosperity. The United States and her allies will pursue a balance of world power that favors human freedom. 
 This requires a new strategic framework that moves beyond cold war doctrines and addresses the threats of a new century such as cyberterrorism, weapons of mass destruction, missiles in the hands of those for whom terror and blackmail are a very way of life. These threats have the potential to destabilize freedom and progress, and we will not permit it. . . . 
Our second goal is to ignite a new era of global economic growth through a world trading system that is dramatically more open and more free. One of the most important objectives of my meetings with other G-7 leaders in Italy will be to secure their strong endorsement for a launch of a new round of global trade negotiations later this year. . . . Our third goal must be to work in true partnership with developing countries to remove the huge obstacles to development, to help them fight illiteracy, disease, unsustainable debt. . . . 
Already, 23 of the world's poorest nations are benefiting from efforts to relieve them of the crippling burden of massive debt. These nations have committed themselves to economic reform and to channeling the savings from debt relieve into health and education.
The United States has been, and will continue to be, a world leader on responsible debt relief. The developed nations must also increase our commitment to help educate people throughout the world. . . . 
For its part, the World Bank and the other development banks must, as Secretary O'Neill has noted, focus on raising productivity in developing nations, especially through investments in education.
Yet only about 7 percent of World Bank resources are devoted to education. Moreover, these funds are provided as loans that must be repaid and often times aren't. Today I call on all multilateral development banks to increase the share of their funding devoted to education and to tie support more directly to clear and measurable results. I also propose the World Bank and other development banks dramatically increase the share of their funding provided as grants rather than loans to the poorest countries. Specifically, I propose that up to 50 percent of the funds provided by the development banks to the poorest countries be provided as grants for education, health, nutrition, water supply, sanitation and other human needs, which will be a major step forward. Debt relief is really a short-term fix. The proposal today doesn't merely drop the debt. It helps stop the debt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); CYBERTERRORISM (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



462 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Bush Proposes Grants To Assist Poor Nations
President Bush called for a major shift in the way rich nations help poorer ones, proposing that up to half the aid to those countries from the World Bank and similar institutions be given as grants rather than loans for needs like education and health. A1

Confident Allies in Drug War
American and Mexican officials said they had created a trusted group of undercover Mexican investigators who were arresting long-sought suspects and attacking big drug cartels, instead of selling out to them. A1

Mexico Opening Secret Files
Interior Minister Santiago Creel said he would let human rights investigators review files containing information about the government's surveillance and detention of suspected political opponents in the 1970's. A3

Talks With Europe on Blood Ban
European blood bank officials told a top American official on blood safety that they were skeptical that the United States could easily replace blood imports from Europe if a proposed ban went into place. A12

Belgrade Identifies Bodies
The Serbian government confirmed that three bodies found in a mass grave in eastern Serbia were those of Albanian-American brothers from New York who had gone to fight Serbian forces in Kosovo. Senior officials in the post-Milosevic government, noting the men had been taken into police custody, called the killings an "extraordinarily serious crime." A4

Assessing India-Pakistan Talks
Ministers from both countries said in separate news conferences that two days of high-level talks that produced not even a joint press release had not failed but had helped each side better understand the other. A7

Beijing Indicts U.S. Scholar
Gao Zhan, a permanent United States resident accused of spying for Taiwan, will probably stand trial later this month in Beijing, her lawyer said. Her indictment follows the conviction of a fellow scholar, who was ordered deported. A13

Four Killed in Mideast Violence
Israeli missiles killed four men, two described as senior figures in the militant Islamic group Hamas, and Palestinians loosed their first mortar attack against a Jewish neighborhood on Jerusalem's southern rim. A5

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A14-20

F.B.I. Check Reveals Missing Guns and Laptops
An F.B.I. inventory found that 449 firearms and 184 laptop computers, including one containing classified data, were missing or stolen, bureau officials said, acknowledging what appeared to be another lapse at an agency already battered by criticism of its managerial practices. A14

Panel Backs Arctic Drilling
House Republicans moved swiftly to transform President Bush's energy plan into legislation, as the House Resources Committee became the first to endorse the White House plan to drill for oil in an arctic wildlife refuge by defeating, 29 to 19, a Democratic move to ban exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. A19

Cheney Electric Bill Budget
The House Appropriations Committee, voting 33 to 29 along party lines, supported a White House plan that would have the Navy pay all the electricity bills for the official residence of Vice President Dick Cheney. A19

Scrutiny of Bush Aide Sought
Representative Henry A. Waxman, the ranking Democrat on the House Government Reform Committee, asked the White House to refer questions about possible conflicts of interest involving Karl Rove, President Bush's senior adviser, to the Justice Department for review. A19

Aid to Religious Charities
Democratic members of Congress made a final plea against legislation to funnel more federal money to religious groups for social services, warning that it would undermine the rights of minorities and women. The House expects to vote today. A16

A Warning to Democrats
The Pentagon warned Senate Democrats that a protracted fight over the administration's ambitious missile defense plans would undermine President Bush's effort to overhaul the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty in coming talks with Russia. A16

Florida Official's Response
Florida's secretary of state, Katherine Harris, responding to a New York Times article about the treatment of absentee ballots in the 2000 presidential election, said she had acted properly and without bias. A20

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Personalizing Stem Cell Debate
Both sides in the impassioned debate over stem cell research sought to put human faces on their points of view at a Congressional hearing. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

New Jersey Ruling Shields Some Young Sex Offenders
The State Supreme Court ruled that children found guilty of sex crimes before age 14 are not automatically subject to the prolonged public notice provisions of New Jersey's sex offender law. Rather, the court said, such youthful offenders can seek exemption at age 18 by presenting evidence that they are not at risk of committing another sex crime. A1

No Charges in Astoria Fire
Law enforcement and Fire Department officials said there would be no criminal charges for the two teenagers whose horseplay led to a gasoline spill that caused the Father's Day hardware store fire last month that killed three firefighters and injured dozens of others. B1

Trying to Understand Rampage
The police and officials in Asbury Park, N.J., studied the extent of the violence and damage done Sunday night when a street festival devolved into mayhem, leaving three people shot and more than a dozen arrested. B1

Suspect Resisting Extradition
Joseph Sean Salley, 29, told a Florida judge in Miami that he would fight extradition to New York on charges that he had killed three people above the Carnegie Delicatessen on May 10 during a robbery. B4

Data Becomes Political Weapon
Democrats running for mayor of New York City used thousands of pages of candidate financial reports and petitions as ammunition in attacks on each other. B3

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C18-19

Katharine Graham
The legendary publisher who transformed The Washington Post into an American institution was 84. A1

EDUCATION B9

SPORTS D1-8

Armstrong's Bluff
Lance Armstrong, seeking his third consecutive Tour de France victory, won the first mountainous stage of the three-week race by feigning weakness early in the day's race and then surging past the pack for the uphill finish. He now stands fourth over all, 20 minutes 7 seconds back. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

A Bellwether's Profits Rise
Intel, offering hope that the worst of the semiconductor slump might be over, said second-quarter earnings beat Wall Street estimates on the strength of renewed growth in sales of microprocessors. C1

Brokerage Firms Lagging
Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab reported sharply lower earnings for the second quarter, setting the stage for another round of layoffs and cost-cutting on Wall Street. C1

G.M. Profits Tumble
General Motors posted a sharp decline in profits because of rising competition in Asia, cooling demand for cars in the United States and disappointing European sales. C1

The Dow rose 134.27 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,606.39; the Nasdaq gained 38.20 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,067.32; and the S.& P. 500 advanced 11.99 points, or 1 percent, to 1,214.44. C12

Soft-Drink Bottler Layoffs
Coca-Cola Enterprises, the bottler responsible for about 80 percent of Coca-Cola's soft drink sales in North America, said it would cut 2,000 jobs, or 3 percent of its work force. It also reported a drop in earnings greater than Wall Street forecasts. C6

Beyond House Parties
Tupperware, which has sought to expand by selling goods in mall kiosks, on the Internet and on the Home Shopping Network, has entered into its first agreement with a national retail chain, Target. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-10

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Triangular diplomacy; the subcontinent summit meeting; Katharine Graham.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BLOOD BANKS (77%); ESPIONAGE (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); DEPORTATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); GENOCIDE (74%); BLOOD SUPPLY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); HAMAS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); LAWYERS (63%); LEGISLATION (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (62%); RELIGION (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); CARTELS (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%) UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CHINA (90%); ARCTIC (90%); ISRAEL (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



463 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: House Committee Approves Bush's Plan for Drilling in Alaskan Refuge 

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
House Republicans moved swiftly today to transform President Bush's energy plan into legislation as a committee for the first time endorsed the White House plan to drill for oil in an Arctic wildlife refuge.
 After a heated debate over the drilling provision the House Resources Committee voted 29 to 19 to kill a Democratic amendment to ban exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
 Five Democrats joined 24 Republicans in defeating the ban on Alaskan drilling, effectively endorsing the drilling plan.
The oil-drilling provision is now expected to move to the full House as part of a larger energy package in the coming weeks. But it faces a tough road there and an even tougher one in the Senate, where many Democrats and moderate Republicans oppose opening the refuge for oil exploration and have expressed resistance to expanded oil drilling on other federal lands. 
Indeed, today's approval of oil drilling in the Arctic refuge sets the stage for a battle over Mr. Bush's energy plan on the House floor.
"I don't think we will drill in A.N.W.R," Representative Sherwood Boehlert, Republican of New York, said, using the abbreviation for the Arctic refuge. "It's much talked about but it isn't going to happen."
In an effort to bolster the Alaska oil-drilling provisions, Republican leaders have enlisted the support of trade unions to battle the environmental groups and try to persuade Democrats and moderate Republicans to support the bill.
The strategy splits two traditionally Democratic constituencies. Many unions support the drilling bill because it would create jobs for their workers.
"We are putting everything into it we can, along with many other members of organized labor," said Jerry Hood, principal officer for Teamsters Local 959 in Alaska. "By the end of September, we will be planning for the environmentally responsible opening of A.N.W.R. because it is going to pass."
The White House has worked behind the scenes with union leaders to try to push the bill in Congress. Last week, James P. Hoffa, the general president of the teamsters, appeared at a news conference with Representative Don Young, an Alaska Republican, and Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton.
"I think the votes are there on A.N.W.R.," said Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, who helped write parts of the energy legislation. "We have to work it."
Also today, the Energy and Commerce Committee, hoping to lace the overall package with less contentious, more popular proposals, took up a bill to reward energy conservation and strengthen fuel efficiency standards for light trucks and sport utility vehicles, among other things.
Republicans plan to move other elements of the energy package to the full House later this week, including one that provides tax incentives for energy-efficient cars and solar energy devices.
But that measure is also running into opposition from Democrats, who said they supported the tax breaks but feared they would take too large a bite out of the budget surplus.
The committee has also postponed action on more complex energy bills dealing with electricity deregulation, the overhaul of electricity grids and the renewal of liability insurance for nuclear power plants.
Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who is the committee's chairman, said it would take up those issues in the coming weeks.
The Republican push to move energy legislation comes as the public's concerns about energy appear to be waning. Gasoline prices have dipped and California has not yet suffered the rolling summer blackouts that had been feared.
Hoping to promote the White House plan, Mr. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and five cabinet secretaries traveled around the country to emphasize the need for a national energy policy.
House Republicans are moving swiftly on major elements of Mr. Bush's plan. But they are also trying to avoid following the exact tack taken by Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney, who have been criticized for focusing too much on oil and too little on conservation and other environmentally friendly policies.
By making conservation one of the first major elements of the package, Republicans are trying to undo some of the political damage.
Democrats today, though, castigated Republicans for doing too little to reduce energy use and said that the committee's measure to toughen fuel efficiency standards could do more harm than good.
"This bill is a lost opportunity," said Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat. 
The efficiency provision was the product of a compromise between Mr. Tauzin and Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the committee's ranking Democrat.
It would require the Transportation Department to raise fuel economy standards for sport utility vehicles and minivans high enough to save five billion gallons of gasoline from 2004 to 2010.
The White House has not endorsed any increases in fuel economy standards.
In light of a draft report by the National Academy of Sciences that calls for even greater increases in fuel economy standards, Democrats on the committee said that the measure did not go far enough.
"It will reduce consumption by one-tenth of one percent but, due to loopholes, it will actually worsen motor vehicle fuel economy standards," Mr. Waxman said.
Other provisions in the two energy bills include tax breaks for cleaner coal-burning technology, and more money to help low-income households winterize their homes and pay their energy bills.
One of several oil-related provisions would encourage oil production on federal lands; another would allow companies to pay royalties in gas or oil instead of cash.
The Resources Committee legislation, to which the arctic drilling measure was attached, was passed by the full committee tonight.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The House Resources Committee bustled with activity yesterday as it debated the first elements of the Bush energy plan to make it into legislation. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (62%); TAX LAW (61%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENERGY AND POWER; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; WILDERNESS AREAS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DON YOUNG (59%); JOE BARTON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ALVAREZ, LIZETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ARCTIC (95%) UNITED STATES; ALASKA; ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001 



464 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Bonkers for Music, Cheer and Glory; 
For Britons, It's Time for the Proms, That Exhilarating Feast

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 18 

 BODY:
You never know from the weather if summer has arrived in Britain, but you have no doubt it's here once music starts pouring nightly over throngs in the Royal Albert Hall and out to millions more on the radio. 
 Opening night of the BBC Proms, the two-month feast of sound that invites no quarrel calling itself "the greatest music festival in the world," is as exhilarating a seasonal moment for Britons as the opening-day crack of bat and ball is for Americans. 
 "Invite me to a party, a wedding, a tea dance or an orgy during those lyrical eight weeks," Richard Morrison of The Times of London wrote last year at this time. " 'Sorry,' will come my reply. 'Rattle conducting Wagner that night. Unmissable. Start the orgy without me.' " 
Friday night will be the first of 73 consecutive concerts this year in what is the 107th season of the Proms. More than half will sell out the 6,000-capacity Victorian domed hall on the edge of Hyde Park, and all will be broadcast live on BBC Radio 3, the network's classical music station. Grand orchestras, chamber groups, famous soloists and marquee singers will pass through the rotunda-shaped pile over the next two months, with it all coming to a giddy end on Sept. 15 with the marathon Last Night at the Proms, in which the audience with their flags and party hats and Union Jack umbrellas and sing-along scores of Britain's most unabashedly patriotic anthems are as much a show as the serious music-making. 
Both Friday's opening and the Last Night will be Webcast this year over www.bbc.co.uk/radio3.
Going to a Promenade Concert is a communal experience, a gathering of people in a vast wraparound space that makes for neighborly seating patterns. "It's not people sitting in serried rows with everyone staring at a proscenium arch as in the theater," said Nicholas Kenyon, a former music critic in London and New York who joined the BBC in 1992 and became Proms director in 1996.
They are dressed informally (the Royal Albert Hall is famously not air-conditioned), some standing, some stretched out on the arena floor, some snuggling but everyone paying keen attention. It is an audience that musicians love to play for, Mr. Kenyon said. 
"One of the reasons performers are prepared to come back year after year and swelter in the heat of the Albert Hall and get paid too little by the BBC is because of what they get from the audience," he said. "It's not in the economic interests of the Boston Symphony or the Chicago Symphony to come to the Proms. They come because they will never have a more alert audience."
Up to 1,000 standing places are available for each concert in the gallery and the arena at $4.25 each, and 500 of them go on sale only 30 minutes before showtime, so even sell-outs are accessible to people with time, a good book and some staying power.
The stand-up regulars who crowd around the lip of the stage have developed traditions of their own. They bob in place to particularly lilting melodies and chant ribald phrases of greeting to visiting orchestras in their own languages. They'll chide chamber groups for playing too quietly by crying out in unison: "This concert can be heard on BBC Radio 3." The lifting of a piano lid onstage always gets a shouted "heave" from the arena and a responsive "ho" from the gallery.
While live music is struggling to build a faithful public, attendance at the Proms last year averaged 88.9 percent of capacity. The annual Proms guide, a 150-page listing of concerts with artist profiles, background notes and essays, sold 70,000 copies, making it the best-selling book on classical music in Britain.
The Proms formula is as simple as it is successful. "People say you can do high-quality, elitist things that few people come to, or you can do popular, dumbed-down things that lots of people go to and nobody values," Mr. Kenyon said. "What we are saying with the Proms is it is possible to do high-quality classical music of the widest possible repertory and get an audience who don't necessarily know every detail of what they're coming to but are prepared to respond. They are the most open-minded audience I've ever encountered in the world."
In a typically broad mix, this year's season includes more than a dozen visiting orchestras, among them Boston, Chicago, the Kirov, Leipzig Gewandhaus and Czech Philharmonic; artists like Vladimir Ashkenazy, Emanuel Ax, Daniel Barenboim, Alfred Brendel, Renee Fleming, Valery Gergiev, Bernard Haitink, Antonio Pappano, Sir Simon Rattle and Frederica von Stade; little-known finalists and winners of the BBC Young Performers contests; 10 newly commissioned pieces and many more old favorites like Vivaldi's "Four Seasons" and Beethoven's "Pastoral" Symphony; and 11 premieres of new works by composers including Sir John Tavener and Sir Harrison Birtwistle.
Friday night is the debut of the American Leonard Slatkin as chief conductor of the BBC Symphony Orchestra. A Californian who was the longtime music director of the St. Louis Symphony and since 1996 has been at the helm of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, he will be only the second non-Briton to lead the bizarre Last Night nationalistic sendup. The first, the Australian Sir Charles Mackerras, was a lot less foreign since he had been based in Britain for more than 30 years when he took on the assignment. 
Friday night will also witness the annual installation at the back of the orchestra of the illuminated bust of Sir Henry Wood, the originator of Promenade Concerts in 1895 that became the BBC Proms in 1927. He conducted almost every concert himself for nearly 50 years and has presided in stony silence over all the ones since. The concerts originated in Queen's Hall (another barnlike London space with an arena in the middle), which was destroyed by bombs in 1941. 
For all the nights of quiet enchantment and hearty good cheer, there have been moments of unplanned drama. During a performance of "Carmina Burana" in 1974, the baritone, Thomas Allen, fainted from the heat, and a student singer who knew the score, Patrick McCarthy, leaped onstage and took over the part. 
Mstislav Rostropovich was playing Dvorak's Cello Concerto with the U.S.S.R. Symphony Orchestra the night in August 1968 that Soviet tanks rolled into Prague. Anti-Soviet demonstrators protested outside the hall. Mr. Rostropovich, who was soon to defect, played a Bach solo as an encore and dedicated it to the Czech people. 
In 1967 Sir Malcolm Sargent, a conductor beloved of Promgoers, was too ill to attend the full Last Night concert, but he went over to the hall from his apartment in the Royal Albert Mansions next door, and Sir Colin Davis brought him on stage to address his cheering fans. He told them that "God Willing" he would be back the following year. He died a month later.
The first weeks of September 1997 were a particularly charged period for the Proms. The death of Diana, Princess of Wales, brought millions of mourners to London, and many of them filled the meadows of Hyde Park outside. Mr. Kenyon remembers deciding to proceed with the concert schedule because, he reasoned, that is what she would have wished. Then he went through the programs to make sure there was nothing inappropriate. The one work he felt he had to drop was John Adams's "Short Ride in a Fast Machine." (It is part of this year's Last Night program.) 
Then a week after Diana's death, Sir Georg Solti died. He had been scheduled to conduct the Last Night performance of the Verdi Requiem a week later. Sir Colin Davis led the work instead, and it was dedicated to both the conductor and the Princess.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sir Andrew Davis leading the BBC Symphony Orchestra at Last Night of the Proms last year. Jane Eaglen, left, sang in a Union Jack dress. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. E5); Nicholas Kenyon, a former music critic, has been the director of the BBC Proms since 1996.; Enraptured by "Rule Britannia" at Last Night of the Proms last year at Albert Hall. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); MUSIC (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PUBLIC RADIO (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); THEATER (77%); WEBCASTS (71%) MUSIC; PROMS (LONDON MUSICAL FESTIVAL) 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



465 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Continent's Inflation Rate Eases 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 18 

 BODY:
Europe's inflation rate fell in June, and the decline, the first in five months, should pave the way for the European Central Bank to lower interest rates in the months ahead.
 Consumer prices rose 3 percent in June, compared with June 2000 and 3.4 percent against May, the European Union's statistics office said. 
 The central bank is under growing pressure to spur the economy in the face of broad slowdowns in the United States and Japan. The European Union last week warned that growth in the 12 countries in the euro zone would fall below 2.5 percent in 2001, compared with a decade high of 3.4 percent last year.
In anticipation of potential rate cuts, the euro rose to a two-month high against the dollar. In New York today, the euro settled at 87.06 against the dollar, up from 85.91 on Tuesday.
Even so, policy makers, who are scheduled to meet on Thursday, are likely to wait for more evidence that inflation is under control before trimming rates, analysts said. That is because they have largely missed their goal of keeping inflation below a predetermined target of 2 percent the last 13 months.
The central bank last cut its benchmark rate on May 10, after seven rate increases within a year.
Recent reports from Germany, Europe's largest economy, supported evidence that inflation was being held at bay. A report today, for instance, said German producer prices rose 4.6 percent compared with a year ago -- less than the 4.7 percent that analysts had expected. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INFLATION (94%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); STATISTICS (73%) PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



466 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
There are fewer summer jobs for teenagers, but that might not hurt long term.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; This column appears here every Thursday. Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
SUMMERTIME and the living is supposed to be easy. But for many teenagers looking for work, this summer is shaping up as a disappointment. As Ira Gershwin might have put it: the fish are not jumping and the cotton is not quite so high.
 Every summer millions of teenagers swarm into the labor market like ants around a picnic basket, only to retreat in the fall when school resumes. Last year, the number of 16- to 19-year-olds employed increased from a low of 6.7 million in January to a high of 8.6 million in July, a 28 percent increase. The number fell to less than seven million in October. As of the middle of last month -- the latest data available -- the number of teenagers working bounced back to only 7.8 million, 6 percent below where it was at the same time last summer. Only 48.5 percent of teenagers worked last month, compared with 51.6 percent a year ago. 
 Teenage workers are usually the first to feel the pinch of an economic slowdown because they frequently move in and out of jobs. The current slowdown is no exception. The unemployment rate for teenagers has increased 2.2 percentage points since June 2000, considerably more than the 0.5 percentage point increase for all workers. The continued slowdown portends tougher times ahead for young workers.
What impact will reduced employment this summer have on teenagers? A draft study by Public-Private Ventures, a nonprofit research organization based in Philadelphia, suggests that summer employment has measurable short-term benefits for youth, but negligible longer-term benefits.
The study evaluates the experiences of 1,708 youths who applied to the Summer Career Exploration Program in 1999. Since 1983 this program, created by the William Penn Foundation as an alternative to government-sponsored programs, has assisted high school students in the Philadelphia area to find summer jobs in the private sector and provided academic mentors for the students it places.
The program pays employers 80 percent of their wage costs for employing a participating student at the minimum wage for six weeks, and recruits employers to participate. Students are placed in jobs related to their career interests, including positions in law firms, hospitals and computer service companies. College students meet with participants about twice a week as mentors on career and academic opportunities and to encourage them to do well in school and pursue a college education. 
To conduct the study, 1,157 first-time applicants were randomly selected and provided summer job placement assistance, while another 551 were randomly selected for a control group. Most applicants were B or C students; 72 percent were blacks. They all came from families with incomes that were no more than 150 percent of the poverty level. Because random assignment was used to allocate applicants, any systematic difference in outcomes between the program group and control group could reasonably be attributed to the summer job program, rather than extraneous influences.
The study found that 92 percent of those who were provided assistance worked in a summer job in 1999, compared with only 62 percent of those in the control group. The fact that students participating in the program were nearly 50 percent more likely to work during the summer of 1999 -- one of the hottest job markets on record -- suggests that many teenage workers have difficulty finding employment even in the best of times.
The average student provided summer job assistance earned $250 more than the average member of the control group, including nonworkers in both cases. The average hourly wage rate was $5.30 for program participants and $5.69 for control group members who found work. 
The main benefit of working in a summer job measured by the study is that it gives students more money to spend or save for college. The average student who found employment earned about $900 over the summer. In addition, summer jobs keep teenagers from being idle during the summer, which may reduce criminal behavior, but such information has not yet been collected. In Pennsylvania, criminal activity, for both youths and adults, tends to rise in the summer.
The Summer Career Employment Program costs around $1,000 a participant to operate, and raises the earnings of participants by only around $250. Thus it is an inefficient way to transfer money to young people unless there are other lasting benefits. 
The study found little reason to expect that summer employment has a lasting effect on students beyond the summer they are employed. 
Students who were selected to participate in the summer job program, for example, did not have a higher likelihood of working during the following school year than did control group members. Three-fifths of those in both the program and control group worked during the 1999-2000 school year. Moreover, their average hourly wage and total hours worked during that school year were almost identical. 
Even more disheartening, being placed in a summer job did not appear to improve significantly the students' academic outcomes or educational aspirations. One year later, about equal percentages of program and control group members said they planned to attend college, had sufficient information about college, and had taken or planned to take the SAT or ACT exam. Based on these results, there is little reason to suspect that holding an ordinary summer job, which excludes a college mentoring component, would meaningfully influence a student's academic achievement either. 
Wendy S. McClanahan, the study's co-author, said one should not expect a six-week summer job to have a major impact on adolescents' attitudes and behaviors because they are undergoing tremendous changes in their lives and are subject to numerous influences. 
To generate lasting benefits for adolescents, a more intensive program is required. For example, a randomized evaluation of the Job Corps program released by Mathematica Policy Research earlier this week found that participants' earnings were 12 percent higher and welfare use was lower four years after participating in the federal government's most intensive youth training program. This program costs $16,500 per participant but generates $33,000 each in benefits for society, according to Mathematica.
On the positive side, the findings of the summer jobs study suggest that the joblessness experienced by many youths this summer will probably cause only a short-term blemish on their economic and academic prospects, not a long-term scar.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "No Days at the Beach"The number of teenagers in the work force rises every summer, but this year the number is lower than at the same point in the three previous summers. Chart shows number of teenagers, ages 16 to 19, employed from 1998 through 2001, measured in millions.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); STATISTICS (75%); POOR POPULATION (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); LEGAL SERVICES (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%) LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) PUBLIC-PRIVATE VENTURES (ORGN) 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



467 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Dredge the Hudson 

BYLINE:  By Gary S. Guzy; Gary S. Guzy served as general counsel of the Environmental Protection Agency under Bill Clinton.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is facing a critical public health and environmental choice about the future of the Hudson River. It must decide whether to embrace the proposal made by the Environmental Protection Agency in December 2000 -- after 11 years of study -- to get polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, out of the river by dredging and removing contaminated sediments from the upper Hudson.
 From the 1940's through the 1970's, General Electric discharged more than one million pounds of PCB's into the Hudson from two now-abandoned plants. PCB's have been banned in this country since 1979; the E.P.A. classifies them as carcinogens in animals and potentially in people. They persist in the environment and accumulate in the food chain, so that eating fish caught in the Hudson may cause harm. As a result, 200 miles of the Hudson River have been declared a federal Superfund hazardous waste site. Fish consumption bans are in place in a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson from Hudson Falls to Troy. The E.P.A. has found that a cleanup would greatly reduce the health risks of consuming upper Hudson River fish. 
 Under the Superfund law, G.E. could bear the financial responsibility for this cleanup, which may cost nearly $500 million. The E.P.A.'s decision-making has reflected both the magnitude of the public health and environmental issues and the potential expense. Before proposing limited dredging of toxic hot spots, the agency undertook years of study, publishing several detailed reports assessing the behavior of pollutants in the river and their effects on people and wildlife. There were five independent peer reviews of the research.
The E.P.A.'s scientists found that PCB's in the river would not change chemical composition and become benign, nor would they be covered up by river sediments. The sediments are constantly shifting and exposing new areas of contaminated river bottom, and capping toxic hot spots is not feasible given the river's turbulence. 
Although fish tissue contamination has declined since PCB's were banned in the late 1970's, and as a result of G.E.'s efforts to limit PCB leakage from its former factories, the government's data show that contamination in the fish cannot reach safe levels for generations without removal of PCB's from the river bottom. Although G.E. argues that dredging will do harm, modern dredging technologies can capture pollutants from contaminated sediments and avoid disrupting the ecology of the river.
The opponents of dredging also say questions about dredging's effects have not been thoroughly answered. But the environmental laws do not require absolute certainty before action to address a clear problem.
The Hudson cleanup is not one that will happen overnight; it will require time and perhaps even revision along the way. Gov. George Pataki's office has supported the plan proposed by the Clinton administration. So much time has been devoted to studying this issue that the Bush administration should move ahead with a responsible cleanup.
America's modern environmental movement has demonstrated over the last 30 years that public health and environmental protections can be achieved without weakening the economy. This was true in the cleanup of polluted waterfronts across the country, from Baltimore's Inner Harbor to Chicago's lakefront. The same will be true of the Hudson. The cleaner the Hudson, the greater the possibility that tourism, recreation and appropriate real estate development along its reaches will thrive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERFUND (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (90%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); RIVERS (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CHLORINE (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); SEAFOOD (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (74%); FISHES (73%); CARCINOGENS (72%) WATER POLLUTION; PCB (POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS) 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: GUZY, GARY S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%) HUDSON RIVER; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



468 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Times Co. Operating Profit Fell 73% in Second Quarter 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The New York Times Company reported yesterday that operating profit fell 73 percent in the second quarter, as declines in advertising sales more than offset increases in circulation revenue and reductions in expenses.
 The company said that operating profit totaled $48.2 million, down from $176.3 million in the second quarter of last year. Revenue fell 11 percent, to $760.3 million, from $857.5 million in the period a year earlier. 
 John M. O'Brien, the chief financial officer, noted in a conference call with analysts that economists said the economy was not in a recession. But, he added, "it sure feels like one." 
Russell T. Lewis, the president and chief executive, said the company hoped that the sharp decline in advertising would end soon and that by the fourth quarter that market would "show signs of improvement."
But there was no sign of improvement in June advertising results. The company said that advertising revenues for the month were down 16.3 percent from a year earlier -- and that they were off more at the company's most important properties. Ad revenues declined 17.8 percent at The New York Times, and 22.8 percent at the New England Newspaper Group, which comprises The Boston Globe and The Worcester Telegram & Gazette. The companywide figures exclude some regional newspapers that were sold during the year.
While operating earnings were down, net income was up sharply because the company recorded a $241.3 million pretax profit on the sale of its magazine group, including Golf Digest and Golf World. Over all, net income came to $265.5 million, or $1.64 a diluted share, up from $101.7 million, or 59 cents a diluted share.
The Times Company said the earnings number it preferred to focus on -- which excluded special items like the magazine group sale and a $79.1 million charge for costs related to work force reductions in the second quarter -- came to $70.5 million, or 44 cents a diluted share, down from $101.7 million, or 59 cents a diluted share, a year earlier. Mr. Lewis said that was slightly above the consensus Wall Street expectation.
The company said its operating expenses -- excluding the costs of the work force reductions -- were down 5.4 percent from a year earlier, largely because of lower compensation and promotion expenses. The decline came despite a 2.8 percent increase in spending on newsprint.
Shares of the Times Company ended the day yesterday at $45.85, unchanged, in New York Stock Exchange trading.
A 3.6 percent increase in circulation revenue at the company largely reflected price increases imposed by The New York Times and The Boston Globe. The company said that the impact of higher prices on the number of copies sold had been smaller than expected, but that The Times expected to report lower circulation for both its daily and Sunday papers in the next audited figures, for the six months through September, while The Globe was expected to show a Sunday decline but might show a small increase for the daily.
An impressive area of strength in advertising revenue came from real estate, which was up 13 percent for the newspaper group, including gains of 12 percent at The Times and 21 percent for the New England Newspaper Group.
The sharpest falloff was in help-wanted advertising. "It was almost unprecedented," Mr. O'Brien said. For The Times, help-wanted revenue fell 42 percent in the second quarter from its level a year ago, after declining 24 percent in the first quarter. The decline was even worse for the New England group, down 52 percent in the second quarter after dropping 23 percent in the first quarter. 
"We view this as a cyclical phenomenon," Mr. Lewis told analysts, "not as a secular trend" reflecting the rise of Internet help-wanted advertising. He noted that online help-wanted advertising revenue had also fallen.
At New York Times Digital, the online part of the company, revenue fell 12.3 percent, to $15.3 million, but costs fell even faster. The company said that in the quarter the division had positive cash flow -- earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- for the first time in its history.
At the broadcast group, revenue fell 6.4 percent, to $38.7 million, and operating profit dropped 12.3 percent, to $12 million. The company said advertising for autos and packaged goods was particularly weak. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) COMPANY REPORTS; ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (97%); WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; BOSTON GLOBE; NEW YORK TIMES DIGITAL; GOLF WORLD (MAGAZINE); GOLF DIGEST (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (97%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



469 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Prices in June Increased 0.2% For Consumers 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
Food, housing and health care costs ate into consumers' wallets last month, but lower energy prices helped to moderate inflation.
 The government's inflation gauge, the Consumer Price Index, increased 0.2 percent in June, the Labor Department said today. The index was up 3.8 percent for the year. 
 The core rate of inflation, which excludes volatile energy and food prices, rose 0.3 percent in June compared with 0.1 percent in May.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told a House committee today that the slowdown was continuing and might require another interest rate reduction to turn around. "Uncertainties surrounding the current economic situation are considerable," he said.
The Federal Reserve has cut rates six times this year to ward off recession. The next meeting is Aug. 21.
One sector of the economy that has held up well is housing, and a separate report by the Commerce Department today indicated that it remained strong.
Housing construction rose 3 percent in June to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.66 million. That came after a revised decline of 1 percent in May.
Consumer energy prices dropped 0.9 percent last month, though they were still up 11.3 percent for the year.
The cost of electricity jumped 3.8 percent last month -- the largest increase on record. But natural gas prices were 5.6 percent less, the largest decline on record. The cost of gasoline also dropped 2.6 percent, the best showing since March, when prices dropped 3.8 percent.
Motorists this summer have been getting a break at the pump after world crude oil prices eased and refiners rushed to fill shortages that developed during the spring.
Gasoline prices have dropped nearly 13 cents the last three weeks as supplies rose. The average price of gasoline, including all grades and taxes, was $1.51 a gallon Friday -- down 12.8 cents since June 22, according to the Lundberg survey of about 8,000 gasoline stations. 
But prices increased in other areas. Airline fares surged 5 percent last month, the biggest increase since October 1999, when prices jumped 5.3 percent.
Food prices were up 0.4 percent in June and up 3.7 percent for the year. Housing prices rose 0.4 percent after the same showing in May. Medical care also jumped 0.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Housing Construction"New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. June DataStarts: 1.658Permits: 1.568 Chart tracks number of permits and starts from January 2000 through July 2001.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); AIR FARES (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%) LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



470 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: New Opinion Editor at Wall St. Journal 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
Paul A. Gigot, a Washington columnist for The Wall Street Journal, will take the reins of the newspaper's opinion pages, assuming the title of editorial page editor this fall and all the duties of Robert L. Bartley, the current opinions editor, next year, Dow Jones & Company, the newspaper's owner, announced today.
 Mr. Bartley's uncompromisingly conservative views -- the guiding principle of the opinion pages is "free people, free markets" -- have made The Journal's editorials a yardstick for politicians and policy advocates who favor supply-side economics, disdain any hint of political correctness and relish confrontation with ideological opponents. 
 Mr. Gigot, who won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary last year, said yesterday, "I hope to continue the principles and traditions of the page."
Mr. Bartley, a man of personal shyness belied by his razor-edged prose, has been the defining force on the editorial page for 29 years. He carries the title of editor of The Wall Street Journal and will continue to do so until his 65th birthday, near the end of 2002.
Under his tenure, the newspaper's opinion writers championed causes like the rehabilitation of the junk bond king Michael R. Milken, excoriated the policies and personal conduct of President Bill Clinton and undertook their own investigations, like Dorothy Rabinowitz's critical examination of the convictions of three members of the Amirault family, whose prosecution for sexual abuse of children at the Boston day-care center they ran has been widely criticized.
At times, the reporting done for Mr. Bartley's pages has been at variance with reporting for The Journal's news columns, an occasional source of friction between the editorial and news departments.
Extensive reporting has also been a feature of Mr. Gigot's column, "Potomac Watch." Asked about the appointment yesterday, Richard Lowry, the editor of The National Review, a conservative magazine, said, "He's a wonderful writer, and we are going to miss his writing contributions." Mr. Gigot's work on his column over the last 14 years, he added, "is a distillation of The Journal's opinion pages' traditions" of combining "reporting with sound political advice and political principles."
Mr. Gigot, 46, is highly visible as a conservative commentator on television. He joined The Journal's editorial pages in New York in 1987 after serving as a Journal reporter in Chicago and Hong Kong for two years each, then, at the age of 29, becoming the editorial page editor of The Asian Wall Street Journal.
Daniel Henninger, the deputy editorial page editor, will continue in that post and later this year will begin writing "a regular column focused on social and cultural issues," according to a news release issued by Dow Jones today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BONDS (78%); POLITICS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); CHILD ABUSE (68%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (51%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (50%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); DOW JONES & CO INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET JOURNAL 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%) BARRINGER, FELICITY; GIGOT, PAUL A; BARTLEY, ROBERT L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



471 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: Painting the Pictures Of a Perfect Vacation; 
A Vision of Lake George as a Tourist Spot, Marketed With Striking Postcard Imagery

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: LAKE GEORGE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The artist Martin Johnson Heade came here in 1862, checked into the finest hotel in what was already a bustling resort, strolled down to the shore and painted a scene that made it look as if he had trekked to the ragged edge of the frontier. The manicured lawns, colonnaded verandas and parasol-carrying ladies that were the hallmarks of Victorian-era tourism here were all carefully omitted. A soft bed awaited at the end of a day of arduous wilderness art.
 Lake George is still like that: part jaw-dropping natural beauty, and part good old human hokum and winking deception on the other. It's a long-running formula that worked then and still works now. 
 "You don't get bored here," said Allen Croteau, a 41-year-old maintenance supervisor at a hospital in Boston, who was sitting with his daughter Kelsey, 6, outside the House of Frankenstein Wax Museum on a recent July day, a block from the lake. Behind them, skulls in the museum's window display rose and fell like dancers in a macabre conga line as throngs of visitors streamed past. "There's restaurants, shops -- always something to do," Mr. Croteau said. 
Like every other 19th-century tourist spot, from Atlantic City to Niagara Falls, Lake George is a human invention -- a deliberate construction of imagery and association that was born with the arrival of the first real American middle class in the early to mid-1800's. The lake's stunning vistas have been here for millennia, but what the place has come to be, through generations of American strivers, is a structure that was built piece by piece, and is still under construction today.
And the painters played a central role, helping forge a connection that exists to this day in tourism around the world. But it made its first appearance in the haunts of the Hudson River School: natural beauty as a commodity that could be bought, sold and consumed.
People could visit a place, and then they could hang pictures of it on their walls, and both were signs of having arrived. Over time, the artists themselves even became part of the landscape attractions that they were helping promote and create.
"Sighting live artists under their white umbrellas sketching in the countryside became an image to be collected on one's vacation, like spotting a moose or a rare fern," writes Rebecca Bedell, an assistant professor of art at Wellesley College, in her recently published book, "The Anatomy of Nature: Geology and American Landscape Painting, 1825-1875" (Princeton University Press).
But the 19th century had other obsessions that have been handed down here: the divisions of class and money. Although the resort began its life as a playground for the wealthy, the new, growing economy of the mid-1800's -- and the political philosophy of Jacksonian democracy that celebrated the common man -- gradually broadened the demographics of who could come here. Over time, two landscape art markets evolved as well, and part of what distinguished them was the old Lake George question of what was seen and not seen. 
The rich, who bought oil paintings like Heade's, flattered themselves that they could read literary or historical allusions into Lake George art, and so they were generally happy to be deceived by having the tourist elements omitted, historians like Professor Bedell say.
The new middle classes, on the other hand, who could only afford engravings of the places that they visited, were still thrilled to be vacationing at all and wanted to be reminded of what they had experienced. So they bought art with the human trappings left in.
"The whole rise of landscape tourism is a facet of the growth of the urban middle class," said Kenneth Myers, an assistant curator at the Smithsonian Institution's Freer Gallery of Art in Washington. What had been the exclusive province of the moneyed classes was opening up -- a process that Dr. Myers called "the democratization of gentility."
It was a trend that was not to be stopped.

A Multicultural Haven
Dilip Kakkad came to the United States from his native India in 1974. A year later he came to Lake George. It's a story as old as Horatio Alger, and as deeply ingrained in many immigrant communities as a first high school prom or a first car: the American vacation.
Mr. Kakkad, 48, who owns a textile importing business and lives in Watchung, N.J., said he was lucky. Most immigrants he knows take 10 or 15 years to feel comfortable enough to take much time off. "Otherwise they're working Saturday and Sunday," he said.
This month, Mr. Kakkad and his wife, Indira, were introducing a visiting couple from India to the pleasures of Lake George. The men sat on one beachside bench, the women on the other.
"The way I see it, where in the world can you have a quiet holiday for this price?" Mr. Kakkad asked. "A 200-mile ride doesn't cost you much -- $20 gas -- and motels here are probably $50."
Lake George has worked hard to build exactly those kinds of associations.
"This is where you become an American," said Bob Flacke, the chief executive officer of the Fort William Henry Resort and Conference Center, which is descended from the hotel where Heade stayed in the 1860's. (The original Fort William Henry burned in 1909; the current incarnation prominently features a print of Heade's painting over the front desk.) 
Mr. Flacke said that because of Lake George's historic links to New York City -- about 70 percent of guests at the Fort William Henry live in the metropolitan region -- the place has become an upstate echo of the multicultural changes that have occurred in places like Queens and New Jersey, which are major Lake George markets. "Here you see the Indian grandmother walking down the street complete with the sari -- she probably speaks no English; the daughter is half-and-half Americanized and her kids are all American," Mr. Flacke said.
But a phenomenon like that does not happen by itself. Fort William Henry, which owns two other hotels along with restaurants and shops and is one of the biggest employers in town, has deliberately cultivated the immigrant market. 
The hotel advertises heavily in one of New York City's biggest Chinese-language daily newspapers, The World Journal. Fort William Henry also targets specific types of immigrants who are deemed the most likely to become Americanized, put down roots and spread the word about Lake George. Catholic Chinese, for example, who form a close-knit community in New York and are persecuted in China, have been singled out as Lake George material. An advertising campaign using the back of church bulletins was used to try and reach them. Other recent campaigns have been aimed at Afghan and Pakistani immigrants in New York. 
The company also advertises Lake George to immigrant groups who are not quite economically or culturally ready. The idea is that by the time they reach the comfort level to take a vacation, Lake George will be the place they think of first.
"The Russians, the Vietnamese, the Bulgarians and the other Eastern Europeans are all five years out," said Sam Luciano, the resorts manager at Fort William Henry. "They'll evolve."
And now the multicultural arc of Lake George is extending beyond United States borders. In the last few years, hotels and restaurants have begun bringing in hundreds of foreign students to work the summer season. This year, local business owners estimate that as many as 500 students -- out of a total summer work force of perhaps 6,000 to 7,000 -- have been brought in from dozens of countries. They're getting, in many cases, their first taste of American life on these old shores.
Stas Tchernykh, 19, is working as a pool waiter at the Fort William Henry this summer. He has been struck, he said, by how much the lake reminds him of his native Siberia, in the area around Novisibirsk, where he is in college studying economics.
"Same trees, same grass -- when I go sit near the beach I start feeling I am in Russia still," he said. 
Mr. Tchernykh conceded that there was no place back home quite like Lake George's Canada Street strip, where places like the House of Frankenstein and Alien Encounter, an extraterrestrial museum and research center, ply their trades. But, he said, only time will tell what happens in Russia.
"Tourism is just beginning," he said.
The contrasting elements of Lake George that would have been known to Heade -- scenic nature existing alongside often comic elements of human nature -- are more than just traits. They are ultimately part of the attraction that still brings people here.
Anthony Earls and his wife, Christine, who live near Saratoga Springs and who met at the electronics factory where they work, say that people-watching is the main reason to come. If they want real backwoods camping, which they also love, they will go farther north to Long Lake or Tupper Lake in the Adirondacks. Lake George, they say, is for the buzz, the carnival atmosphere, the silliness and especially the variety of people who can be seen just walking around looking back at them.
"We just love to watch people, and here you see all kinds," Mr. Earls said, holding his 11-week-old son, Nathan, on his shoulder.
And there are still quiet places, too.
Jeffrey A. George, a risk analyst at MetLife Auto and Home Insurance who lives in Taberg, about three hours west, was fishing one morning, not far from where his wife, Julie, and their two children were still asleep in their tent at the Adirondack Camping Village. He had not caught anything, he said, and did not care. The morning was too beautiful. 

No Comment From a Monster
The old questions Heade also knew -- what is proper to reveal about Lake George or not -- are apparently also still alive and well.
Outside the House of Frankenstein, a ghoulish character in Frankenstein monster mask and three-inch black platform monster boots stood on the sidewalk, posing for pictures and giving a hideously deformed thumbs-up sign whenever a passer-by would call out his name. "Hey, Frank!" people say to him, over and over.
The general manager of the House of Frankenstein, David B. Stanton, refused to let a reporter interview the monster. "We want to maintain the mystique," Mr. Stanton said. "You wouldn't do a story about the character who plays Santa Claus, would you?"

In Art's Footsteps
The paintings of the Hudson River School are portraits of the Northeast, captured at a time when 19th-century America was re-examining its ideas about nature. The landscapes helped spur tourism and environmentalism.
This is the sixth of 10 summer articles in which The New York Times returns to the places illuminated by Hudson River School artists. The seventh article, from Palenville, N.Y., will celebrate a dawn, much as Frederic Edwin Church did with his painting "Above the Clouds at Sunrise." "Sunrising" was a popular pastime for Victorian vacationers at the Catskill Mountain House, who would stir from their sumptuous rooms to watch the day begin. Today, the hotel's ghostly ruins inspire different kinds of travelers and different reveries about beginnings and ends.
The articles and additional materials are available on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: Photos: Passengers taking in the sights on a paddle-wheeling boat excursion on the lake. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times); People from a variety of cultures awaiting a recent fireworks show, where Martin Johnson Heade painted "Lake George," above, in 1862. (Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)(pg. B1); Lake George attracts families, like Allen Croteau, left, with daughter Kelsey, 6, from Derry, N.H., and foreign students, like Stas Tchernykh, 19, a Russian who is working as a poolside waiter this summer.; Justin Lyons, 9, foreground, and Rachel Lyons, 11, from Middletown, N.Y., playing in the surf near the lake's shoreline. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times); The Fort William Henry Hotel, one of Lake George's first resorts, in 1908. (The New York Times)(pg. B10) Map of New York shows the location of Lake George.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LAKES (90%); PAINTING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HIKING (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DANCERS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); BOOK REVIEWS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%) ART; SURVEYS AND SERIES 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) LAKE GEORGE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



472 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Child Well-Being Improves, U.S. Says 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
By many social, financial, educational and health measures, the well-being of America's children has been improving, according to a new report from the federal government. 
 While children are still more likely to be living in poverty than adults, the child poverty rate has been dropping steadily. In 1999, 16 percent of the nation's children lived in families below the poverty line -- the lowest rate in two decades, and two percentage points less than in 1998. 
 The decline was especially sharp in households headed by women and in black families, according to the report, the fifth annual compilation of data on children from a dozen federal departments and agencies. 
"These findings represent important victories for children and adolescents," said Dr. Duane Alexander, director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. "Children are less likely to live in poverty, more likely to have a parent working full-time and more likely to have health insurance." 
In one measure of the strong economy of the 90's, the percentage of children living in households with at least one employed parent rose to 79 percent in 1999, from 77 percent in 1998 and 72 percent in 1994.
On this measure, too, children living with single mothers showed the most improvement. But children living below the poverty line are increasingly likely to have at least one parent working full-time, year round. In 1999, 31 percent of children in poverty had an employed parent, compared with 21 percent in 1980. 
The proportion of children covered by health insurance rose to 86 percent in 1999, the highest since 1995. 
There were 70.4 million children under 18 in the United States in 2000, or 26 percent of the population, down from a peak of 36 percent at the end of the baby boom. That percentage is expected to remain relatively stable, with children making up 24 percent of the population in 2020. 
The diversity of American children is growing, with the Hispanic population increasing fastest. In 2000, 16 percent of the nation's children were Hispanic, up from 9 percent in 1980. Sixty-four percent were white, 14 percent black, 4 percent Asian/Pacific Islander and 1 percent American Indian. 
Over the last two decades, the percentage of school-age children who speak a language other than English at home and have difficulty speaking English has nearly doubled, to 5 percent in 1999 from 2.8 percent in 1979. 
The percentage of children living with one parent increased to 26 percent in 2000 from 20 percent in 1980, and the proportion of children living with single fathers doubled to 4 percent in 2000 from 2 percent in 1980. 
According to the report, put out by the Federal Interagency Forum on Children and Family Statistics, adolescents' cigarette use is declining. Among 12th graders, the proportion of daily smokers was 21 percent in 2000, down from a recent high of 25 percent in 1997; among 8th graders, 7 percent reported smoking daily last year, compared with 10 percent.
Alcohol and illicit drug use did not change substantially, with about 30 percent of 12th graders reporting that they had at least five drinks in a row in the previous two weeks, and about 25 percent of them reporting drug use in the previous month. 
The percentage of young adults completing high school has increased. Although the proportion earning a regular diploma has been dropping, the increase in those obtaining an alternative high school credential has more than made up the difference. 
Other findings included these: 
*Adolescent deaths declined, to an all-time low of 71 deaths per 100,000. The greatest declines were in firearm deaths, which dropped to 16 deaths per 100,000 adolescents in 1998 from 28 deaths in 1994. 
*Almost 60 percent of 16-year-olds were employed at some point in the school year, as were about 18 percent of the 14-year-olds. 
*The violent crime victimization rate for 12- to 17-year-olds dropped to 20 per 1,000 in 1999, from 25 per 1,000 in 1998. Although that change is not statistically significant, it is part of a longer-term downward trend, in which the number of assaults, rapes, robberies and killings of youth has declined by half since 1994. 
One troubling finding of the report was the increasing prevalence of asthma, the most common chronic childhood illness. More than 5 percent of children under 18 had asthma in 1998, an increase of more than 20 percent in a decade. In 1981, 3 percent of children had asthma, and by 1988, that figure rose to 4 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Children in Poverty"The percentage of children in families that live below the poverty line in varying household structures. Graph showing the percentages of children living below the poverty line in vary household structures.(Source: Census Bureau; March Current Population Survey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (88%); SMOKING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



473 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Police in Cincinnati Pull Back in Wake of Riots 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, July 17 

 BODY:
Three months after this city was traumatized by street clashes and vandalism, the police have retreated from "proactive" patrols in black neighborhoods, saying they fear fresh charges of racism.
 During this period, there has been a six-fold increase in shooting incidents citywide, with all but one victim black, further polarizing the city since the three days of confrontations in April between black protesters and the police. 
 "We're seeing an epidemic rise in violent crime," said Keith A. Fangman, the president of the Fraternal Order of Police union.
Since the protests, there have been 59 shooting incidents in the city with 77 gunshot victims, compared with 9 shootings and 11 victims in the comparable three months last year.
"The aftermath of the riots has actually been more harmful to the city than the riots themselves," Mr. Fangman said. 
Arrests have dropped 50 percent since mid-April, he said, insisting that it was not a job action and that his officers wanted to be proactive.
But, Mr. Fangman said, they were "shellshocked" by a lack of political support and a rising tide of investigations and complaints.
There has also been a decline of nearly 55 percent in traffic stops, a tactic that the union chief defended as crucial to policing but that blacks often call harassment rooted in racial profiling.
On Saturday, a group of black leaders denounced Mr. Fangman and the police union as derelict and called for a boycott of the city by business conventions until there were tangible improvements in economic opportunities and police relations in impoverished black neighborhoods. 
Black civic and church leaders, who have organized nightly street patrols of those neighborhoods, accuse the police of shirking their duty -- a consequence, they say, of police resentment toward investigations by the Department of Justice and the F.B.I. into accusations of brutality, as well as toward the growing docket of civil lawsuits that allege abuses.
"Everything is now polarized," the Rev. Damon Lynch III, the chairman of the city's Black United Front, said of the worsening relations between tense black neighborhoods and the 1,020-member police force, which is 28 percent black.
As a result of whites moving to the suburbs, Cincinnati's population dropped by 35,000, to 330,000, in the last decade, while the city's black minority grew to 43 percent.
"The sense of desperation is still there that existed in April," Mr. Lynch said. "The anger in the African-American community is festering again."
Last week, after a night of gun violence in which six people were shot, Mayor Charlie Luken, backed by a half-dozen City Council members, said a violent-crimes task force of perhaps 60 officers would be formed to focus on high-crime neighborhoods that bore the brunt of the shootings.
"Cincinnatians now must stand up and take back our streets," Mr. Luken declared.
He made a point of adding, "Acts of kindness to police officers in the street would be appropriate at this time."
The police chief, Tom Streicher, has expressed sympathy for his officers, describing an "air of permissiveness after the riots and it carried over." In a local newspaper interview Chief Streicher said the police were experiencing a "tough time."
"They're just not feeling a lot of support," he said. 
Civil rights protests by blacks turned violent in April after a white patrolman fatally shot an unarmed black male in a street chase. Black leaders said the use of force by the officer, who was later indicted on misdemeanor charges of negligent homicide, was part of a prejudicial pattern; all 15 suspects killed by police officers in the last six years have been black.
Mr. Lynch's group and the Ohio chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union brought a civil rights lawsuit against the city contending racial profiling by the police. The suit is the subject of an unusual mediation effort supported by both sides in which thousands of residents are to be consulted about the city's racial divide in an effort to find common ground for healing.
"We're not anti-police; we're anti-bad policing," Mr. Lynch said.
He said that with the planned police task force, black communities faced the prospect of "an occupying force or no police presence at all."
Discussing the fact that 76 of the 77 gunshot cases since the riots involved black victims and black suspects, Mr. Lynch said that "black-on-black violence is not acceptable."
But he called the incidents "an aberration that arose after the April unrest," and speculated that more guns might have flooded the city after pawn shops were looted.
"They're on the streets now," he said. "They're being used."
After touring black neighborhoods with other leaders for seven straight nights, Mr. Lynch described some young black men as "falling back into a sense of hopelessness," once the attention to their grievances faded after the street protests ended.
"They turned on themselves," he said, adding that the rationale seemed to be that "if somehow you get hold of a gun, now you've got power," and that "all power is to be exercised" -- especially on the less powerful near to home.
"What has to be taught to the community," Mr. Lynch continued, "is that worth doesn't come from gym shoes, gold chains, cars and stereos. And power doesn't come from a gun."
Still, no less important a lesson, Mr. Lynch said, was that the city had to stand up to power plays by police officers who, he contended, were intent on a job "slowdown."
"So the mayor says hug a cop today," Mr. Lynch said. "That's ridiculous." 
Mr. Fangman, the union chief, said that officers had "been afraid to take enforcement action in black neighborhoods," contending that they faced a "lynch-mob mentality" by local politicians and the news media.
"It's not a physical fear," Mr. Fangman said of the officers. "They are simply hesitant for fear of being labeled a racist, especially if it's a white officer."
But Mr. Lynch said the police had long been routinely aggressive and built no close relationships with the city's blacks; even now, he said, the department was not reaching out to black leaders to help create the neighborhood task force.
After the protests, black residents were encouraged by plans for a charter change that would let the city search nationally for a police chief instead of being limited to candidates from the local police force.
But Mr. Lynch said the charter change proposal had foundered, with next month's City Council meeting the last chance to revive it in time for the November elections. No politician, he said, was speaking up for it in this year of municipal elections. "The political will so vocal in April is not there now," he said. 
Mr. Fangman said the police needed the city's leaders to show the political will to support its police force after months of "sitting by and saying nothing." 
He noted that Cincinnati had registered some of the lowest crime rates across the last four decades for a city its size. But, he said, enforcement had become more passive since the riots because of officers' "plummeting morale" and fear of being prosecuted for "any clear-cut justified police shooting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Keith A. Fangman, president of the Cincinnati police force's union, says the force wants to be proactive but has had little support.; "Everything is now polarized," the Rev. Damon Lynch III said of the tensions between blacks in Cincinnati and the city's police force. (Photographs by Mike Simons for The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); RACE & RACISM (91%); RIOTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FIREARMS (89%); CITIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BOYCOTTS (76%); MISCONDUCT (73%); SUBURBS (73%); VANDALISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (56%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%) POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SLOWDOWNS AND JOB ACTIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE GRAND LODGE (57%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; FANGMAN, KEITH A; STREICHER, TOM (POLICE CHIEF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CINCINNATI (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



474 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: California's New Problem: Sudden Surplus of Energy 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 18 

 BODY:
After months of warnings about power shortages and forced blackouts, an unusually cool July and surprisingly effective conservation efforts have put California in a stunning position: it has so much electricity on its hands that it is selling its surplus into a glutted market.
 In fact, state officials said today, after spending much of the winter and spring scrambling to line up new supplies of electricity at a cost of tens of billions of dollars, the agency that is in charge of buying power has actually been selling some back at a loss this week. 
 Oscar Hidalgo, the spokesman for the Department of Water Resources, which became the state's main buyer of power after soaring wholesale prices pushed private utilities toward bankruptcy this year, would not provide exact figures on how much the state was selling or how much money it was losing.
But the department has said it was paying on average $133 per megawatt-hour this month, much of which it is obliged to buy whether it needs it or not, under long-term contracts signed in recent months. By contrast, officials say, the department at times has sold some of that power back into the market at prices as low as $15 per megawatt-hour. 
Mr. Hidalgo insisted that the surplus power could quickly vanish if temperatures soar as expected in August.
Some consumer groups, which have bitterly criticized the state's energy policies in the crisis, seized on the sales as evidence of what they said was a poorly thought-out plan that had left the state at the mercy of a merciless market.
"This state agency has no expertise in trading," said Harvey Rosenfield, an official at the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights. "It is amateurish at best and sometimes incompetent, negotiating with a bunch of M.B.A.'s whose goal is to soak California. The state was panicked into leaping into this business, and it is being outwitted." 
But a spokesman for Gov. Gray Davis defended the state's purchases, saying its response to an emergency has produced greater reliability and, in the long term, a greater supply of power.
"Like we said all along, we're doing everything within our power to control the situation and stabilize things," said Steve Maviglio, the governor's spokesman. "But the weather is not within our control. When the utilities were in this business, they ran into this situation routinely."
On Monday, for example, the high temperature in San Diego was 70 degrees, compared with an average of 77 degrees. In San Francisco, the high was 66, compared with an average of 72, and in Fresno it was 87, down from the average of 99. That meant that air-conditioners across the state were turned down.
But officials said that the weather was not the only factor in relieving the sense of crisis in California and that the state's conservation program had produced a significant reduction in demand.
The state energy commission has said that total demand was down 12 percent this June from June 2000, adjusted for the weather and economic growth. 
The conservation program provides rebates for buying certain energy-efficient appliances and special discounts for large consumers that reduce their power needs sharply from previous years.
In addition, state and federal office buildings have instituted conservation measures, including turning off lights and computers at night and adjusting thermostats.
Also, big rate increases, of as much as 40 percent in certain instances, kicked in this June, encouraging consumers to cut electricity use further. 
Some experts have warned that while a sense of crisis has helped produce the big reductions in demand, as soon as people feel that the emergency has passed at least some will return to their old ways and demand may rise again.
According to the California Independent System Operator, which manages the power system, peak demand today was expected to be 32,651 megawatts, and the available supply was slightly above 40,000 megawatts.
In January, the state suffered several power emergencies in which it was forced to pay more than $1,000 a megawatt at times of critical shortages.
But even with those purchases, utilities were forced to cut power in some places when the demand exceeded the supply. The last time the state had to resort to blackouts was on May 8.
After the emergencies in the winter, the state frantically lined up power purchases on contracts ranging from a few months to 10 years and more. 
The state tried to put together a diverse portfolio of contracts that would ease the shortages but not lock the government into paying too much if prices declined in the future. Energy experts expected some declines in prices but not this quickly.
The Department of Water Resources paid an average of $243 per megawatt in May, but the price has now dropped to $133 per megawatt on average this month, some of that in the form of spot purchases and some under the long-term contracts. Mr. Hidalgo said the department's sales of power back to the market had been at $15 to $30 per megawatt.
Some energy traders said the state was just paying the price any market participant must accept.
"They're not doing anything imprudent," said Patrick Dorinson, a spokesman for the Mirant Corporation, a large power generator and trader. "They're just finding out how the markets work. Everything is built on forecasting, and sometimes the forecasts are wrong."
Mr. Maviglio, the governor's spokesman, said the state's planning was built on forecasts of a harsher summer and less conservation. "The forecasts have turned out to be far more conservative than the reality," he said.
Mr. Rosenfield countered: "We've been outwitted. They goofed, and it looks like taxpayer money is being thrown down the toilet." 
In May, the amount of power the state needed to buy on the so-called spot market, which means purchases in which the electricity would be supplied immediately, accounted for close to 45 percent of the total purchases. Typically, longer-term contracts are at fixed prices, while spot purchases can be enormously volatile.
But because of the reduced demand in July, spot purchases have made up just 5 percent or so of the Department of Water Resource's total purchases, and at the times of lowest demand, like this week, officials have decided to get what they can by reselling excess power.
"This is a normal business practice," Mr. Hidalgo said. "We can buy power and we can sell power. I don't think anyone would have predicted that we would have found ourselves in this position in July. But we're not out of the woods. August could be raging hot."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cecelia Paez sorted customer bills yesterday at Southern California Edison's office in Rosemead, Calif. After months of blackouts, the power situation took an unexpected turn this month, leaving the state with a surplus. (Associated Press)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); WHOLESALE PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); WATER QUALITY (55%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL); CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HIDALGO, OSCAR; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



475 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Airlines, Led by United, Show Big Losses 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Whipsawed by a plunge in high-priced corporate travel and rising labor and fuel costs, several major airlines, led by United Airlines, reported steep second-quarter losses yesterday, a downturn that several managers described as among the worst in a generation.
 Executives at United, American Airlines and US Airways said that they would trim schedules, freeze hiring and take other steps to cut costs. But they warned that a return to profitability would not come soon. 
 "We really have to adjust ourselves to the new reality of a weak economy and a high cost structure," said Rono Dutta, the president of the UAL Corporation, United's parent. 
UAL's financial performance once again was worse than expected, accounting for the bulk of the industry's losses during the quarter. It reported a loss of $292 million, or $5.50 a share, in contrast to a profit of $336 million, or $2.86 a share, in the second quarter a year ago. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial/ First Call had predicted a loss of $4.73 a share. 
The second quarter is usually the airline industry's most profitable. But after a boom in corporate travel in recent years that enabled airlines to book record profits, sales of last-minute business fares, which make up the biggest portion of airline earnings, have fallen as much as 20 percent at the major carriers. Analysts now forecast that the industry will show a loss for the second quarter for only the second time since the airlines were deregulated in 1979.
The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, lost $507 million, in contrast to a profit of $321 million, or $1.96, during the second quarter of 2000. Excluding special charges, the loss was $105 million, or 68 cents a share. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call was a loss of 71 cents a share. Sales, including the addition of Trans World Airlines, which AMR bought in April, grew 11.4 percent, to $5.6 billion from $5 billion last year. 
Executives at UAL appeared almost shell-shocked by their airline's decline. "None of us have seen this type of downturn before," Douglas A. Hacker, the airline's chief financial officer, said to analysts yesterday. 
Sales for the quarter fell nearly 9 percent, to $4.66 billion, from $5.11 billion a year earlier. United said that it expected to lose money again this quarter and for the full year. 
Mr. Dutta said that United was suffering more than its competitors because its network is concentrated in the West, where travel cutbacks at large corporate customers, like Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard, have been particularly steep. United was also the first airline to sign a new, more generous agreement with its pilots last summer.
To try to turn things around, United will freeze growth. It had planned to increase the number of seats it flies by 2 percent this year but now it will raise the number by 0.5 percent. The airline will also speed up retirements of older jets, defer delivery of new aircraft and impose a hiring freeze. Many routes now served by full-size jets will be flown by smaller regional jets, which are cheaper to operate. 
Mr. Dutta said that United would concentrate its remaining resources on better pleasing its customers. The airline has long been rated near the bottom in terms of on-time performance and other service. "We are really going to focus on improving the customer experience," he said. American, too, has frozen hiring, sped up aircraft retirements and trimmed growth. It said that it had decided to cut its capital spending by about $1 billion over the next 18 months. It also predicted another loss for this quarter. 
"We have all been very surprised by the abruptness of the downturn in business travel," said Thomas W. Horton, AMR's chief financial officer. "It may signal that the general economy is weaker than we believe." 
US Airways surprised analysts by posting a narrower loss than expected. The airline lost $24 million, or 36 cents a share, during the quarter, in contrast to a profit of $80 million, or $1.17 a share last year. The average analyst estimate was a loss of 57 cents. Revenue grew 2.5 percent, to $2.5 billion, from $2.4 billion last year. 
Rakesh Gangwal, the chief executive of US Airways, said that the airline continues to be hurt by competition from both low-fare competitors and bigger network carriers using regional jets to poach passengers that formerly had little choice but to fly US Airways. 
He said that US Airways had been stuck in limbo since February 2000, when it began negotiating its proposed merger agreement with United. Late last month, United asked US Airways to terminate that agreement, but US Airways refused. The deal is now being considered by the Justice Department's antitrust division, which must act before Aug. 1 if it wants to block the deal. 
Executives at both US Airways and United declined to answer questions yesterday about the transaction, which also involves selling some US Airways assets to American Airlines and DC Air, a new carrier that will be based at Reagan National Airport in Washington. 
Representatives of all four companies are expected to make presentations individually to Justice Department officials in Washington today and tomorrow, according to people involved. The executives are then planning to meet with top officials at Justice next week for further talks. 
Most analysts do not believe that the deal will pass muster with regulators. But officials at US Airways and American say it would promote competition on the East Coast and should be approved. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); COMPANY LOSSES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AMR CORP (85%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



476 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Agencies Close Unit And Make Layoffs

BYLINE:  By Jane Levere 

 BODY:
One agency is closing its design unit and another agency is laying people off.
 The agency closing the design unit, Cipriani Kremer Design in Boston, is Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas Advertising. 
Arnold's brand teams will now handle design assignments, said Melissa Lea, senior vice president for marketing at Arnold, who confirmed a report of the closing in the online edition of Advertising Age. 
 Arnold will try to find jobs at the agency for as many of the 18 full-time employees of Cipriani Kremer Design as possible, Ms. Lea said, adding that Bob Cipriani, chairman, and Vic Cevoli, president, would leave to pursue other interests after the design unit closes on Dec. 31.
The agency making the layoffs is the sole remaining American office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide, in New York, which is dismissing about 45 employees, or 6 percent of its staff of 750. Rob Quish, president of the office, attributed the layoffs to the economic slowdown.
The dismissals are being made across the agency, Mr. Quish said, adding that he did not foresee more. In May, Lowe Lintas, part of the Partnership unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, laid off 18 employees in New York and closed its San Francisco office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); DISMISSALS (75%); CLOSINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) ADVERTISING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ARNOLD WORLDWIDE PARTNERS; CIPRIANI KREMER DESIGN; LOWE LINTAS & PARTNERS 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%)

PERSON: CIPRIANI, BOB; CEVOLI, VIC; LEVERE, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (86%)

TITLE: ;ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



477 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Few Missile Defense Details Emerge After Powell Talks 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ with MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: ROME, July 18 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the Russian foreign minister, Igor S. Ivanov, played a guessing game today over what each side intended on the sensitive issue of missile defense. Mr. Ivanov said that Russia would keep talking to the United States but conceded little else. Secretary Powell, who said the time had come to be more specific with the Russians, appeared at least in public to have few details to offer.
 In Moscow, the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, told reporters he was open to the idea of negotiating an accord over a limited missile defense without discarding decades of arms control agreements with the United States. 
 Secretary Powell conveyed a sense of growing urgency on missile defense by building on a series of statements by the administration last week before Congress and the news media, and a successful missile test last weekend. This was the sixth meeting between him and the Russian foreign minister this year and occurred before foreign ministers of the world's major industrial countries meet here Thursday prior to the opening of a summit meeting of world leaders in Genoa, Italy, on Friday.
Before breakfast with Mr. Ivanov, the secretary told reporters it was time to give the Russians a fuller picture of what the administration intends on missile defense and how it wants to work around the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty.
"We're now going to pursue it with greater vigor now that our reviews are being completed, now that we have a better understanding of the technologies available to us and now that we can begin to see more clearly the constraints that are in front of us as a result of adherence to the ABM treaty," Secretary Powell said. 
Even so, the secretary said he was not able to be very precise with Mr. Ivanov. "They are not specific proposals yet in the sense of, here's exactly what hardware program we are thinking of and it's at this precise stage of development, and it'll be at such and such a stage in a year -- it's not that level of detail," he told reporters. 
Pressed on what stage of the timetable the administration had reached with the Russians -- when it would be able to decide if it could foresee an accord with the Russians or would choose to withdraw from the ABM treaty -- the secretary said, "I cannot tell you whether this is the middle or near the end or two-thirds of the way, but I think we're well along." Pressed once more, he said, "I know that point is out there and I know that it is not in the distant future. It is the relative near term, to midterm, not far term." 
In Moscow, Mr. Putin used his first formal news conference today to temper Russian criticism of American plans for a limited missile defense, saying Moscow would not act jointly with China to counter a United States missile shield. Mr. Putin also suggested that an accord could be reached with the White House on a missile defense program that would satisfy Russia's concerns.
Asked to describe conditions under which Russia and the United States might negotiate changes in the ABM treaty, he said Russia would be guided first by its national security interests. But he added that any decision would also be based on the degree to which the treaty could be altered without upsetting existing international arms-control regimes.
He also said his emerging relationship with President Bush could play a key role in those discussions.
"I think that personal relations between leaders of such countries as the United States and Russia are very important, at least because we have accumulated the biggest amount of nuclear weapons," he said. "This is why I assess positively the fact that normal personal relations are taking shape with the president."
Mr. Putin praised Mr. Bush as both a competent leader and a sincere, even sentimental man, qualities he said he admired. "All this is a very good basis for building personal relations and trying to find solutions to complicated issues which we have not yet solved," he said.
After a session between President Bush and Mr. Putin scheduled for Sunday morning in Genoa, Secretary Powell said he expected to address the issue of missile defense with Mr. Ivanov again next week when they plan to meet in Hanoi at a conference of Asian foreign ministers. They would meet again, he said, in New York at the opening session of the General Assembly at the United Nations in September. 
But the secretary said the administration had not fully made up its mind who would represent the United States in negotiations with the Russians to thrash out the details of what the administration wants in its proposed strategic framework. 
But for sure, Secretary Powell said, the under secretary of state for arms control and international security, John R. Bolton, would be playing "a leading role." Mr. Bolton, who has written and spoken extensively about his distaste for the ABM treaty, traveled with the secretary to Rome today and was present at the meeting with Mr. Ivanov. 
Secretary Powell denied reports, floated last month by some administration officials, that the administration would offer some inducements -- like helping to alleviate Russia's debt -- as a way of getting Moscow to agree to its vision of missile defense. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and Secretary of Commerce Donald L. Evans are due in Moscow next week for their first visit there.
"We are not looking for some silver bullet -- gosh, if we do this in trade or we do that in economics, will that be enough to push them over the edge to give us what we want," Secretary Powell said. Rather, he said, he wanted to make it plain to the Russians that the United States was moving forward on missile defense, no matter what. 
"I have a hunch that when they hear us out, they will find that it is in their interest to move in this direction because we are moving in this direction, hopefully in a cooperative basis," he said. "But if not, we are still moving forward." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TREATIES 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%) PERLEZ, JANE; WINES, MICHAEL; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (55%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



478 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Fortress Genoa Awaits G-8 Leaders and Foes 

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 18 

 BODY:
Scrubbed, freshly painted and sealed off with metal fences, the harbor where a summit meeting for the world's major industrial nations will begin on Friday is quite calm -- the shuttered-down silence that enveloped the western frontier town before the shootout in "High Noon."
 "It's a little scary, and I am coming home," a young woman whispered in Italian into her cellphone this morning as she turned her 2-year-old's stroller away from the harbor where the Group of 8 is to gather. Today it was all but deserted, except for roaming packs of police officers. 
 "It really does seem like we are under siege in some kind of war," the woman, Geraldine Brown, said apologetically, explaining why she was turning back.
British by birth, Ms. Brown is married to an Italian and works at a hair salon that will not open for business on Friday when President Bush and seven other government leaders arrive. Neither will almost all of the other shops and restaurants inside the so-called red zone, a secure six-square-mile area where leaders will meet from Friday though Sunday. Some anti-globalization groups have pledged to penetrate the zone. 
More than 100,000 demonstrators are expected to come to Genoa to protest what they view as a United States-led global capitalism that exploits and further impoverishes the third world.
The surrounding counter-summit in many ways mirrors the meeting it seeks to denounce and disrupt -- tidy white canvas banquet tents, information booths, brochures, maps, housing (mostly of the squatter/tent variety), scheduled meetings, discussion groups and news conferences. The protesters, however, want the two parallel universes to collide.
And fears that groups of protesters and riot police officers will clash violently, as they have almost routinely since the first major anti-globalization protest in Seattle in 1999, is one reason so many residents have fled to other towns or other parts of the city. Others fear a terrorist attack, or anarchist bombs. Those few who remained watched uneasily as the police this morning erected the last gratings, concrete lined metal fences bolstered with steel poles, that seal off small alleys and other access routes to the harbor.
"Inside the red zone we are really protected, but we are so protected our clients can't get to us," Marisa Salvi, 55, complained as she stood guard over the veal in her empty butcher's shop a few blocks from the pink, motel-style Jolly Hotel Marina on the harbor where President Bush and about 130 members of his 700-member entourage will stay.
Genoa, a small medieval city whose port -- an odd blend of South Street Seaport-style restored warehouses and modern jetties -- is surrounded by high-rise-clotted hills, was not an obvious choice for a G-8 summit meeting. The last major international conference in Genoa was in 1922, a meeting of leaders discussing economic reconstruction of Europe after World War I. The meeting was hailed then as the largest international conference in history. It failed after Germany and the Soviet Union signed a separate pact of their own in nearby Rapallo.
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, a conservative media tycoon who was elected in May, initially said his center-left predecessors should take the blame if anything went wrong in Genoa, but has more recently decided his own prestige is also at risk. Italy spent more than $100 million on pre-summit restoration, infrastructure and security.
The prime minister, who has a keen sense of "bella figura," has made three inspection trips to Genoa since taking office. A little like a regional Soviet party boss, Mr. Berlusconi personally pointed out flaws and ordered last-minute changes, minor and major. Among other things, he called for a different color for a repainted facade across the street from the Ducal Palace where key meetings will take place, and ordered that a row of potted lemon trees be realigned.
When the prime minister asked that Genoese remove wet laundry from their windows while his important guests were in town, however, he went too far for some residents. Today, at least, damp sheets and undershorts fluttered proudly near Italian national flags.
Security, fueled by fears of terrorism and riots by protesters, is audible from the helicopters hovering above rooftops, and visible on the streets, where more than 16,000 police officers and army soldiers have been assigned to keep the peace, many of them already carrying riot helmets and batons on their belts.
But proper protocol is also a concern. At 11 tonight, Genoa police drivers, with the nervous solemnity of ushers at a wedding rehearsal, were practicing aligning their cars in a motorcade to pick up world leaders from the summit sessions at a snappy but dignified pace.
And nerves are edgy. A letter bomb exploded today in the Milan office of a television network news station that belongs to Mr. Berlusconi, lightly injuring a secretary, and in the northeastern city of Treviso an envelope sent to the headquarters of the clothes retailer Benetton burst into flames when it was opened in the company's mail room. No damage or injuries were reported.
But both attacks echoed a letter bomb that injured an officer in a Genoa police station on Monday. Dozens of false alarms have followed. The main wholesale produce market of Genoa was evacuated today after the police received an anonymous bomb threat at 5:40 a.m. that turned out to be a prank.
Also at dawn, more than 300 police officers in riot gear raided a Genoa stadium turned tent city that serves as the counter-summit headquarters of the more radical protest groups, whose slogan is "civil disobedience" and who promise to break through to the red zone. The police checked the tents and sleeping bags, but did not confiscate anything, not even shields and helmets kept in plain view.
"We have nothing to hide," said Luca Casarini, a leader of Tutte Bianche, or White Overalls, an Italian anti-globalization group. "If we did, we wouldn't have spent the last month talking about how to carry out civil disobedience at the G-8."
Genoa's four McDonald's restaurants were closed today, their windows shielded by wooden planks. The fast-food chain has become a target of protests at such gatherings.
Perhaps not surprisingly, Jose Bove, the French farmer who became a cult hero after he went to prison for vandalizing a McDonald's in France, showed up in Genoa today.
For all the heightened security, the red zone, like many forbidden things in Italy, is not totally impregnable. One 21-year-old French protester, a university student who declined to give her name or hometown, confessed she had toured the zone with a male companion this morning.
"It looks like an occupied zone," she said with contempt. Asked how she managed to get past checkpoints without a pass, she blushed and explained, "I was wearing shorts."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barricades like this one outside a typewriter store define the so-called red zone in Genoa, a secure six-square-mile area where leaders of the major industrialized nations will meet Friday through Sunday. (James Hill for The New York Times) Map of Italy highlighting the Red Zone in Genoa: Economic talks will be held inside the barricaded red zone in Genoa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); WOMEN (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (67%); RETAILERS (67%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%); MEAT STORES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) STANLEY, ALESSANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



479 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Greenspan Suggests Fed May Reduce Rates Again
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that the economy remained weak and susceptible to more bad news, and he suggested that the Fed might cut interest rates at least once more this year.
 Mr. Greenspan also said the economy appeared to be approaching the bottom of this business cycle and could begin recovering by the end of the year. Page A1. 

Doubts Cast on Shellfish Monitoring
The Food and Drug Administration collects so little information on the safety of shellfish that it cannot tell whether its efforts to improve inspections and reduce illnesses among people who eat them have yielded any significant results, a study to be released today found. C7.

Microsoft Asks for Reconsideration
Microsoft asked a federal appeals court to reconsider an important part of its antitrust decision about product design that could have significant implications for Windows XP, its new operating system. C4.

Poor Earnings Send Stocks Down
Stocks fell on another round of bleak corporate earnings reports. The Nasdaq composite index fell 51.15 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,016.17. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 36.56 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,569.83. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.73 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,207.71. C8.

In California, an Unexpected Surplus
After months of grave warnings about power shortages and forced blackouts, an unusually cool July and effective conservation efforts have put California in an unexpected position: it has so much electricity on its hands that it is selling its surplus into a glutted market. A1.

Mexico and American Unions Unite
When Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, told hotel workers at a labor convention on Tuesday night that illegal Mexican immigrants should be given legal status to prevent their exploitation, he won a rousing ovation. The Mexican government and American unions are urging the Bush administration to grant legal status to millions of undocumented Mexican immigrants. A1.

Moderate Inflation Reported in June
Food, housing and health care costs ate into consumers' wallets last month, but lower energy prices helped to moderate inflation. The Consumer Price Index increased 0.2 percent in June, the Labor Department said. The core rate of inflation, which excludes volatile energy and food prices, rose 0.3 percent in June compared with 0.1 percent in May. C2.

At Apple, Price Cuts and Upgrades
At a trade show, Apple Computer announced a series of performance improvements and price cuts on its desktop computers, previewed an upgrade of its OS X operating system, but introduced no new products. C4.

G.M. Gift to Museum Is Rewarded
The Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History has offered General Motors the right to name a new 20,000-square-foot hall of transportation in the museum in exchange for a $10 million gift. A14.

Summer Jobs Are Hard to Come By
Teenagers are having a harder time finding summer work than in recent years, but the long-term impact on them is probably less than generally thought. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks Consumer Price Index from January to June. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,569.83 down 36.56Nasdaq composite -- 2,016.17 down 51.1510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.09% down 0.11The euro -- $0.8724 up 0.0133The dollar -- 123.96 yen down 1.08 Graph: "TODAY" shows Balance of TradeMay figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -32.2 billion Graph tracks figures from November 2000 to April 2001. Leading IndicatorsJune figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks figures from December 2000 to May 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); FOOD PRICES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); POWER FAILURES (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); HISTORY (69%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (60%); NEW PRODUCTS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (54%); HOTEL STAFF (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



480 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Warns of Serious Risk But Says Rebound May Be in Sight 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that the economy remained weak and susceptible to more bad news, and he suggested that the central bank might cut interest rates at least once more this year.
 Seeking to leaven his recitation of the perils to the economic outlook with a dose of optimism, Mr. Greenspan also said the economy appeared to be approaching the bottom of this business cycle and could begin recovering by the end of the year. 
 In some ways, he said, the most notable conclusion to be drawn is how well the economy has held up, given all the problems it has faced. 
"The period of subpar economic performance, however, is not yet over," Mr. Greenspan said in presenting Congress with the Fed's twice-yearly economic report card, "and we are not free of the risk that economic weakness will be greater than currently anticipated, and require further policy response."
Analysts took his remarks to mean that the Fed was more likely than not to cut interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point at its next meeting on Aug. 21. The Fed has already cut its benchmark short-term rate six times this year, by a total of 2.75 percentage points, in its effort to reverse the slowdown and avert the first recession in 11 years.
Stock prices fell as investors focused on the gloomy aspects of Mr. Greenspan's testimony and continued poor corporate earnings reports. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 36.56 points, to close at 10,569.83. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 51.15 points, to 2,016.17. Bond prices rose on the prospect that the Fed would cut rates next month Page C8. 
Testifying before the House Financial Services Committee, Mr. Greenspan balanced an upbeat view of the economy's long-term prospects against a decidedly mixed forecast for the rest of this year and into 2002. 
He said the economy should be helped in coming months by a variety of factors. He said they included the tax cut signed into law last month by President Bush, falling energy prices and efforts by businesses to reduce their inventories of unsold goods and excess supplies. 
Inflation, he said, is not a serious threat at the moment.
But he said corporate profits remain under "unrelenting" pressure, a factor in the persistent weakness of the stock market. And he added that one critical issue -- whether companies begin investing again in new factories, computers, telecommunications equipment and other capital goods -- "could pose a continuing problem." Many economists say a steep falloff in capital investment is the primary culprit in the economy's sharp slowdown this year.
Mr. Greenspan said deteriorating growth abroad could also slow the recovery in the United States. He declined to comment in any substantive way on the persistent strength of the dollar, which has made it difficult for American companies to sell their products abroad and has bitten into earnings at most multinational corporations.
In his testimony, Mr. Greenspan disclosed that the Fed had marked down its economic forecast. The central bank anticipates economic growth this year of 1.25 percent to 2 percent, implying an annualized growth rate for the second half of the year of around 2 percent. In February, the Fed had forecast growth for this year of 2 percent to 2.5 percent.
For next year, the Fed projected growth of 3 percent to 3.25 percent, a reasonably healthy rate but one slightly below what most Fed officials think is the economy's capacity for noninflationary growth. As long as the economy is growing below its noninflationary potential, unemployment is likely to rise.
The unemployment rate, which is currently 4.5 percent, will edge up to 4.75 percent to 5 percent by the end of the year, the Fed projected, and will continue to rise next year, to as high as 5.25 percent.
Mr. Greenspan's testimony reflected an apparent split within the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee in recent months. Mr. Greenspan's testimony was written to encompass the views of all the committee's members.
One camp has argued that the Fed should give its six rate cuts this year time to work and that further cuts would risk igniting inflation down the road. Another camp has argued that inflation is dormant and that the Fed should be open to more rate cuts if the economy does not rebound convincingly.
At its last meeting, on June 26-27, the Fed appeared to compromise, cutting rates, but by a quarter of a percentage point rather than by the half-point that had become its norm this year.
The risks "would seem to remain mostly tilted toward weakness in the economy," Mr. Greenspan said. In a nod to his own belief that inflation is all but quiescent and is likely to fall even further, leaving room for further rate cuts, he said "overall prices seem likely to be contained in the period ahead."
But he also acknowledged the argument that too much easing of monetary policy, and a lack of recognition that it takes time for rate cuts to ripple through the economy, could leave the economy overheated next year and in need of offsetting rate increases.
"Certainly, should conditions warrant, we may need to ease further, but we must not lose sight of the prerequisite of longer-run price stability for realizing the economy's full growth potential over time," he said.
Under questioning from members of the committee, Mr. Greenspan avoided being pinned down on when he expected the economy to turn around. 
"We are seeing signs that the bottom is beginning to structure itself," Mr. Greenspan said in response to one question. 
Asked later whether he expected a rebound in the fourth quarter, he replied, "I think if I had to make a forecast, I would say that towards the end of this year we will see things improving, and clearly so next year."
In its written monetary policy report to Congress today, the Fed provided an update on its planning for the day when the national debt has been paid down by so much that the central bank will no longer be able to count on using Treasury securities in its open market operations. Through such operations, the Fed increases or decreases the money supply, pushing short-term interest rates up and down.
The report said the Fed was considering, in "the near term," buying and selling securities issued by Ginnie Mae, a federal agency whose bonds are backed by the full faith and credit of the government. Mr. Greenspan floated the possibility of using Ginnie Mae securities in a speech this spring.
The Fed said it might also engage in repurchase operations in which the collateral is debt issued by foreign governments.
In the longer term, the Fed said it would study whether it could auction credit through its discount window, which has long functioned as an emergency loan facility for the banking system. And the Fed said it would consider whether it could buy and sell a range of other securities, a step that would require new legal authority from Congress.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Remarks by Alan Greenspan coupled with disappointing earnings sent stocks into a late-morning slide yesterday on the Big Board. (Reuters)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); INVENTORIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); TAX LAW (69%); BOND MARKETS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



481 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Panel Nears Vote to Raise Fuel Economy of S.U.V.'s Slightly 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
A House committee moved today toward requiring slightly higher fuel economy from sport utility vehicles, minivans and other light trucks for the first time since the mid-1980's. But it voted against calls for major increases, and environmentalists vowed to take the fight to the floor.
 The bill under consideration by the House panel, the Energy and Commerce Committee, would require savings of five billion gallons of gasoline from 2004 to 2010, an amount equal to about two weeks of consumption at current rates. 
 The bill, on which the committee has now nearly finished work, does not state how the requirement would translate into the miles-a-gallon format of the government's existing measure of required fuel economy, the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards. But committee members who wanted bigger changes said the improvement mandated by the legislation would come to less than one mile a gallon. 
Still, proponents pointed out that their provision was a minimum, and said the Transportation Department, under the authority of existing law, might set a bigger increase. Several referred to the legislation, following a period of higher gasoline prices and shortages of other forms of energy, as historic. 
"This Congress is moving in a direction it has not moved in 16 years, almost 17 years," said the provision's author, Representative Lee Terry, Republican of Nebraska. Technology for greater increases is not available, he and others said.
But Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who proposed much more ambitious standards, said lack of technology was no bar when Congress faced proposals like a ballistic missile defense. "That's rocket science," Mr. Markey said. "What we're talking about is auto mechanics."
Mr. Markey wants to raise the car standard to 37.5 miles a gallon, from 27.5, and the light-truck standard to 29 miles a gallon, from 20.7, by 2011. His amendment to do so was voted down, 33 to 22. A proposal to establish a combined standard for cars and light trucks at 40 miles a gallon by 2016 was offered by Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, but was rejected, 47 to 7. 
While current fuel-economy law gives the Transportation Department the authority to revise the standards, provisions in appropriations bills the last few years have barred any such consideration. But the secretary of transportation and leaders of the Energy and Commerce Committee have asked the House Appropriations Committee to allow the department to go ahead.
Among the 60 amendments with which the Energy and Commerce Committee began the day was one on which it voted to maintain federal fuel rules that are good for ethanol. That vote, 33 to 22, was against letting governors change the formula for gasoline sold within their states, authority the governors wanted to help eliminate M.T.B.E., an additive that is used to meet a federal clean-air mandate but that also pollutes drinking water.
The vote pitted urban areas against farm states, which produce the only substitute additive, ethanol.
Since 1990, the federal government has required that service stations in urban areas with poor air quality sell "oxygenated" gasoline -- that is, gasoline with molecules of liquid that incorporate an oxygen atom. Most refiners have chosen M.T.B.E., a chemical made from natural gas. 
But if gasoline is stored in leaky underground tanks, as is common, the M.T.B.E. flows easily through underground water supplies and contaminates wells in the area. In contrast, many other components of gasoline break down naturally and relatively harmlessly in the dirt.
Decisions in California and elsewhere to phase out M.T.B.E. have given a monopoly to the other oxygenate, ethanol, which would be in short supply, and thus expensive, if it had to meet all the oxygenate demand. But environmental regulators in California maintain that refiners there can meet the same clean-air standard without any oxygenates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ETHANOL (78%); GASOLINE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (78%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); LEE TERRY (58%) WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



482 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Clueless on Global Warming 

 BODY:
For the second time in six weeks, President Bush, having rejected the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, is headed to Europe without a strategy on global warming, an issue of deep concern to America's allies. European leaders will try to use the forthcoming Group of Eight summit meeting of industrialized nations in Genoa to persuade Mr. Bush to relax his opposition to Kyoto. Meanwhile, environmental ministers from a wider array of countries will be making the same case to Paula Dobriansky, the assistant secretary of state representing the administration at climate change talks in Bonn. The Europeans should not get their hopes up. Mr. Bush described Kyoto last month as "fatally flawed" because it would damage the American economy, and he has not changed his mind. 
 Ms. Dobriansky thus has the unfortunate distinction of being the first American climate change negotiator with no negotiating position. For all its flaws, the Kyoto Protocol represented an important consensus that the harmful consequences of climate change could be averted only if the nations of the world -- with the richer countries taking the lead -- agreed to mandatory reductions in carbon dioxide and the other gases thought to cause the warming of the earth's atmosphere. The treaty is cumbersome and its targets need refinement. But it outlined a plausible framework for action for which Mr. Bush has provided no alternative except for a few measures announced last week calling for further research. If Japan decides to ratify the treaty, America's isolation will be complete. 
 Fortunately, there has been a reassuring surge of interest in global warming on Capitol Hill. With the growing support of progressive voices in the electric power industry, three senators with pivotal roles in energy policy -- Jim Jeffords of Vermont, Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico -- are pushing legislation that would reduce emissions of all four of the main pollutants from power plants, including carbon dioxide. They have also promised that any energy legislation emerging from the Senate will include serious money for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. In addition, two senators not normally thought of as environmentalists -- Ted Stevens of Alaska and Robert Byrd of West Virginia -- have proposed investments in new technologies aimed at producing cleaner fuels and industrial processes.
Potentially the most important development, however, was a report from a National Academy of Sciences panel recommending a sharp improvement in fuel economy standards for cars and vehicles classed as light trucks, like the popular but inefficient S.U.V.'s. The recommendations, disclosed in Tuesday's Times by Keith Bradsher, are noteworthy because the panel was dominated by industry representatives and because Mr. Bush has promised to pay attention to its findings. Fuel economy standards have not been raised in 17 years. Indeed, the average miles per gallon of the American fleet have actually declined because of the popularity of S.U.V.'s and minivans. 
Scientists believe that improving vehicle mileage would be the biggest contribution America could make to cutting emissions of global warming gases. Cars and light trucks consume about 40 percent of the oil used in the United States and account for more than one-fifth of the carbon dioxide emissions. The panel recommends that the fuel economy of all new vehicles be raised as much as 11 miles per gallon over the next 10 years, a 40 percent improvement over today's levels.
That is a more ambitious target than anything the automobile industry or Mr. Bush has agreed to. Nevertheless, the recommendations will give a boost to the Democrats and moderate Republicans who plan to introduce fuel economy legislation, and it certainly puts the administration on the spot. Vice President Dick Cheney, chastened by criticism of the administration's resource-driven energy strategy, is now saying all sorts of nice things about the need for conservation. The administration's response on fuel economy will say much about whether he means what he says. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Thursday incorrectly identified Paula Dobriansky, who is leading the United States delegation at the global warming talks in Bonn. She is the under secretary of state for global affairs, not an assistant secretary. An editorial yesterday incorrectly referred to Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York as Sherwin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEAD (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (68%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (63%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) WEATHER; EDITORIALS; GLOBAL WARMING; AUTOMOBILES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (58%) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); TED STEVENS (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); DOBRIANSKY, PAULA 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



483 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Happy Voters Are the Stuff Of Dull Races

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
FOR just over an hour yesterday morning, Alan G. Hevesi stood at the subway entrance on 23rd Street and Eighth Avenue and shook the hands of everyone coming and going.
 New Yorkers from all over the city had a chance to talk to one of the mayoral candidates about anything at all. But except for a taxi driver who pulled over to complain about his tickets, a woman worried about her rent and a teacher who wanted a raise, nothing. No badgering, no sidewalk debates, no complaints. 
 It was a similar scene the day before, when Peter F. Vallone visited a program for the elderly in Chelsea, and on Monday, when Michael R. Bloomberg took polite questions from some elderly Forest Hills residents about fuel costs, immigration laws and federal tax policy.
Welcome to the year of the happy voter. And the frustrated candidate.
"In a way it makes it tough, but it means things are pretty good," said Mr. Vallone, the Council speaker. "If I'm getting complaints about dirty streets in my district office, I know the city is in good shape. Eleven years ago, people were complaining about rapes and murders, about car theft. People said to me, 'If you don't make this city safe, forget about it.' "
Today, if not for the protests over Vieques, would anybody be excited about anything?
The candidates -- familiar, undramatic figures who share similar positions and have hardly bruised one another yet -- don't help. Their dutiful proposals, clearly intended to get some attention, glaze the eyes, from Mr. Vallone's call for expanded city train service to Mr. Green's proposal for doubling the size of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. We've heard lately about the biotech industry from Mr. Hevesi, the city comptroller; linking taxes to after-school programs and improving teacher "professionalization" from Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president; reducing traffic congestion from Mr. Bloomberg; and stabilizing the budget from Herman Badillo.
We are, Mr. Green readily concedes, in the realm of the three-ploppers. "I said this on my speech on procurement -- a very good speech, by the way -- that there is the tradition of the three-ploppers: the number of times an audience member's head falls down and hits the cereal plate during a breakfast forum. 
"It's true, there are no galvanizing issues," continued Mr. Green, the public advocate. "Part of the reason is there are four experienced, qualified center-left Democrats running, none of whom would be a disaster if elected. There's not a classic left-right, black-white division."
And the city is not in crisis. Could any candidate, short of a pre-impeachment Bill Clinton, energize complacent voters?
CONTRAST that to mayoral campaigns of yore.
When Edward I. Koch was running for his first term in 1977, crime was up and the city had been through a fiscal crisis, the trauma of the Son of Sam murders and a blackout complete with looting and arson. A frightened public demanded solutions to the city's growing problems, and invariably questioned Mr. Koch and his runoff opponent, Mario M. Cuomo, about the death penalty, which is not even a city matter. When Mr. Koch lost to David N. Dinkins in 1989, racial tensions were high after the death of Yusuf Hawkins, a black teenager killed by a mob of white youths in largely Italian Bensonhurst. 
Four years later, when Rudolph W. Giuliani defeated Mayor Dinkins, crime was the big issue, and the public was still angry about the 1991 riots that shook Crown Heights after a black child was accidentally struck and killed by a car in the Lubavitch leader's motorcade.
Today, people have their frustrations. They are worried about education, housing, the slowing economy and police tactics; many black and Hispanic New Yorkers complain to candidates about what they consider to be police misconduct. Asked what most concerned him, Eduard Sprinkler, an accountant from Washington Heights who shook Mr. Hevesi's hand yesterday, said, "I'm worried about the police situation, the police's relationship to the community." Yet he did not say the same to the candidate, nor did anybody else.
After years of prosperity and a reduction in crime throughout the country that is particularly significant in the city, it's as if New York is taking a deep breath, a vacation from trauma and politics. 
"The voters are not angry, there's no great crisis," said Mr. Hevesi. That could change tomorrow. Probably will. In the meantime, it translates into no great campaign. On balance, well worth the trade-off. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAX LAW (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AGING (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); IMMIGRATION (54%); IMMIGRATION LAW (54%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) PURNICK, JOYCE; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



484 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: In U.S. Unions, Mexico Finds Unlikely Ally on Immigration 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 18 

 BODY:
It is rare for foreign officials to address labor conventions, much less raise their fist in solidarity with the union members.
 But when Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, did so on Tuesday night, saying at the hotel workers' convention here that illegal Mexican immigrants should be given legal status to prevent their exploitation, he got a rousing ovation. 
 For years, Mexico and the American labor movement were at loggerheads, with unions denouncing the North American Free Trade Agreement for dragging down American workers' wages and job conditions. But now Mexico's government and American unions are making common cause on an issue that long divided them, immigration. 
Both are urging the Bush administration to grant legal status to millions of illegal Mexican immigrants. 
After decades of hostility toward immigrants, arguing that they push down wages, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has changed course and concluded that the best way to prevent immigrants from undercutting American wages is to grant them legal status and unionize them. American union leaders also recognize that allying with Mexico on the issue will help unions attract immigrants to their ranks by improving the image of unions in the eyes of immigrants.
Mr. Castaneda has spearheaded Mexico's effort to improve ties with American unions because he recognizes that organized labor is one of the strongest voices to advance President Vicente Fox's goal of winning legal status for Mexican illegal immigrants in the United States.
Mr. Castaneda spoke at the convention of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union as President Bush and President Fox are negotiating changes in American immigrant policy to reduce the dangers of crossing the border and to improve the lives of Mexican immigrants.
"Their lack of legal status makes them vulnerable to employers who undercut the competition by exploiting these immigrants," Mr. Castaneda told a crowd of 400 union delegates who gave him four standing ovations.
Raul Hinajosa, a researcher at the University of California at Los Angeles, who serves as a consultant to the Fox administration on immigration, said, "If they want to move this issue forward in the United States, they know U.S. labor can play a make-or-break role on an issue Mexicans care about."
Noting that President Fox has met with several American labor leaders, Mr. Castaneda said the Mexican government was eager to strengthen ties with American labor after labor's bitter fight against the North American Free Trade agreement soured relations with Mexico.
The Mexican government and organized labor are pushing to give legal status to illegal immigrants as the Bush administration has faced intense opposition from conservative Republicans not to agree to such a step. 
Organized labor is looking to Mexico to advance its call for amnesty for the more than five million illegal immigrants, a position that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. adopted last year after decades of hostility to illegal immigrants. But unions are now reaching out to immigrants, seeing them as a source of growth and energy, rather than a threat.
"Immigrants are in every workplace in the United States, and they're not leaving," said John Wilhelm, the president of the hotel employees' union and the chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s task force on immigration policy. "We have to make it clear to immigrant workers that we're on their side."
Labor leaders support granting legal status to illegal workers because that in theory makes them less vulnerable to exploitation since it enables them to make workplace demands and assert their rights without fear of deportation. In demanding legalization, the labor movement also gains favor with not just illegal immigrants -- who are allowed to join unions -- but also legal immigrants who want legal status for relatives or for friends from their hometowns who are here illegally.
Eager to reverse its membership slide, organized labor is focusing increasingly on recruiting immigrant workers, especially low-wage ones, and has had some of its greatest recent success unionizing Mexican immigrants who work as janitors, hotel maids, hospital aides and farm workers. Many Mexican immigrants, reared to idolize Cesar Chavez, the legendary Mexican-American farm workers' leader, see unions as the best way to climb the American economic ladder and secure better wages and fairer treatment on the job.
The American labor movement and the Fox administration have worked intensely to improve ties, partly because they share an interest in improving the lives of Mexican immigrants. In January, Mr. Fox met with John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and on Monday he met in Detroit with James P. Hoffa, the Teamsters president, and Stephen Yokich, president of the United Auto Workers. 
Last month, Mr. Wilhelm and the presidents of the service employees, farm workers and laborers unions went to Mexico to meet with Mr. Castaneda to discuss legalization of illegal immigrants and labor's concerns about the business community's push to expand the guest worker program.
"I frankly think the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new position in immigration has had a big impact on having people think that fundamental reform will be possible," Mr. Wilhelm said.
In a half-hour speech, Mr. Castaneda said the Mexican government would not agree to the Bush administration's business-backed proposal to allow in far more guest workers each year unless there was also some agreement on granting legal status to illegal Mexican immigrants.
Mr. Castaneda said Mexico also wanted the United States to agree on ways to promote economic growth in Mexico and on a higher annual quota for permanent legal immigrants from his country.
"It's either the whole enchilada or nothing," Mr. Castaneda said.
To add momentum to the push for legalization, the hotel workers' union voted today to establish what it called an Immigrants Freedom Ride, modeled after the freedom rides of the 1960's civil rights movement. Under the union's proposal, buses carrying illegal immigrants would drive from California and other states to Washington, D.C., daring immigration authorities to arrest them while publicizing the legal limbo and job difficulties faced by these immigrants.
Mr. Wilhelm said, "The reason I think there is an opportunity for significant immigration reform is both parties, but most especially the Republicans, who I think are smarter on this than the Democrats, are figuring out that the new citizens' vote is likely to be the determining factor in what will probably be a close set of elections in 2002 and 2004."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, greeted union members yesterday at a labor convention. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); LABOR UNIONS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); AMNESTY (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); UNITE HERE (54%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CASTANEDA, JORGE (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



485 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Chief: Tax Evasion Is on the Rise 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
Tax evasion by Americans using offshore accounts is rising and will increase, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill testified today as he tried to persuade a skeptical Democratic senator that he was committed to vigorously pursuing tax cheats.
 Mr. O'Neill said that decades of efforts to catch money launderers and other tax criminals using offshore accounts had not worked. But he dismissed as meaningless a document, based on government data, presented by the senator, Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, indicating that fewer than 6,000 of more than 1.1 million offshore accounts and businesses were properly disclosed and therefore legal. Pressed by Senator Levin about whether the disparity between reported offshore accounts and their actual numbers was significant, Mr. O'Neill replied: "I find it amusing." 
 His testimony, to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, came before Robert M. Morgenthau, the district attorney in Manhattan, described a scale of bank deposits in tax havens far greater than most experts suspected. Citing previously secret Federal Reserve Bank data, Mr. Morgenthau said that more than $800 billion of American money is on deposit in just one tax haven, the Cayman Islands. 
That sum, equal to one-fifth of all the bank deposits in the United States, he said, is so large that it cannot be solely, or even primarily, the fruits of criminal activity like drug dealing. Rather, Mr. Morgenthau said, these funds must be the product of huge and growing tax evasion by wealthy Americans who have little, if any, fear of prosecution. 
He said his office's efforts to pursue tax cheats had often been stymied not just by foreign governments, but by the federal government, especially the Justice and State Departments and the intelligence agencies.
The hearing was prompted by Mr. O'Neill's balking in April at a plan by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to pressure the Cayman Islands and other tax havens into cooperating with criminal investigations of tax evasion and money laundering. That plan was thrown into disarray after Mr. O'Neill declared that the project was too broad and "not in line with this administration's priorities."
Mr. O'Neill repeatedly insisted that his remarks had been misconstrued by reporters to suggest laxity. "We ought to pursue every tax cheat to the ends of the earth," Mr. O'Neill testified. He cautioned, however, that "we should not presume to interfere with the internal tax policies of sovereign nations."
Mr. O'Neill promised to return, within a year, with treaties in hand from half, as he put it, of the five biggest offshore tax havens, that will help prosecutors in the United States make cases.
He said the Treasury's inability to estimate reliably how much the government spends investigating money laundering has made him skeptical about existing efforts. He vowed to find more efficient and effective ways to combat money laundering and tax fraud.
Mr. O'Neill and Senator Levin agreed on little except that tax fraud and money laundering were significant issues and a growing problem. Senator Levin said that "for years now, offshore tax havens have damaged U.S. interests by facilitating crime, money laundering and tax evasion."
He said the United States loses $70 billion in taxes annually from such evasion -- "a figure so huge that if even half that amount were collected it would pay for a Medicare prescription drug program without raising anyone's taxes or cutting anyone's budget."
Doubting that Senator Levin's attacks would result in improved enforcement, Mr. O'Neill told him, "You are acting like you are going to do something without really accomplishing anything."
Seven former Internal Revenue Service Commissioners sent Mr. O'Neill a letter in June questioning his stance on the O.E.C.D. effort to make foreign tax havens cooperate with investigations of tax crimes. Mr. O'Neill said today that he was "frankly thunderstruck when I got the letter; they responded to misinterpretations in the press."
The letter came in response to an article, in the May 10 Washington Times, which appeared under Mr. O'Neill's own byline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (96%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%) TAXATION; TAX EVASION; MONEY LAUNDERING 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (88%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); LEVIN, CARL (SEN); MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (91%) CAYMAN ISLANDS

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



486 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Ailing Statue: Symbol of Industry or Pork Barrel? 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., July 16 

 BODY:
With his body sliced into pieces and spread ignominiously over an asphalt parking lot, Vulcan looks as if he has already been laid low by Senator John McCain's flashing, budget-cutting sword.
 His 11,000-pound head, frozen in an iron grimace, appears to be maintaining a desperate grip on dignity, averting his eyes from his naked posterior a few yards away that was his best-known feature. The raised arm that once inspired a city to steel-making greatness now lies pockmarked and withered on the ground, awaiting the collection of a mere $12.5 million to point skyward again. 
 The beloved old statue that loomed over Birmingham for 61 years fell apart fairly naturally, given its age and the strain of eternally holding aloft a torch on top of Red Mountain. Originally built for the 1904 World's Fair in St. Louis, Vulcan was set on a pedestal above Birmingham in 1938 as an icon of the then-booming steel industry in the valley below. 
But it is the use of tax dollars to help put him back together that has infuriated Mr. McCain, who has spent the last week laboring to transform Vulcan, the Roman god of fire, from a symbol of industry into a symbol of pork-barrel spending, to the bewilderment and anger of the statue's many admirers here.
Birmingham's leaders have been trying to raise the money to restore Vulcan since he was dismantled in 1999 for safety reasons, after city officials began to have nightmares of his limbs falling off and rolling down the mountain into downtown. While about 80 percent of the money will come from private sources, the nonprofit Vulcan Park Foundation asked the federal government to help with about $3 million in restoration money. The money would not only restore the 56-foot statue, but would also return the surrounding park to the rustic look of the Works Progress Administration era.
Like thousands of other small projects in the federal budget, the grant to the statue was championed by local lobbyists and members of Congress, and seemed on its way to a quiet passage until Mr. McCain, the Arizona Republican better known for his support of a campaign finance overhaul, decided to make an example out of the project and butt heads with Vulcan.
"While the federal surplus is rapidly dwindling, why should federal dollars pay for a face lift of a statue of a Roman god in Alabama?" Mr. McCain asked on the Senate floor last Thursday, introducing an amendment that would block federal money for the project.
"Not one more federal dollar should be spent on this kind of foolishness," he said. "I ask my colleagues to extinguish this Roman god of fire and strike a victory for taxpayers -- and Metis, the goddess of prudence -- by throttling down our insatiable appetite for pork-barrel spending, starting today."
Mr. McCain said he knew that his amendment would never pass, and indeed, after passionate speeches in defense of Vulcan by Alabama's two senators, the full Senate approved the money for the statue on a vote of 87 to 12. But after Mr. McCain brought it up again on Sunday in an appearance on the NBC program "Meet the Press" and issued a news release calling for an end to federal subsidies to pagans, many Birmingham residents began to get annoyed.
As every elected official knows, what is pork to 90 percent of the country is a vital or treasured project at home, particularly when covered with a scanty iron loincloth.
"The senator is a little misinformed," said the Rev. Stephen Jones, pastor of Southside Baptist Church, which used to be in the statue's shadow. "No one thinks of it as a pagan symbol. It's the symbol of our city, and with the economy the way it is, we need our symbol back."
Steve Yoder, chairman of the Vulcan Park Foundation, said Vulcan was no less a regional landmark than the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, or the Liberty Bell or -- pointedly -- the Grand Canyon.
"O.K., maybe the Grand Canyon isn't a fair comparison," Mr. Yoder said, "but there are certain symbols and destinations in this country that rise above simply local interests, and deserve a place in the federal budget.
"The Vulcan statue represents the economic transformation of the South, and it's every bit as deserving as any other project."
Local residents interviewed here said they resented the characterization of their symbol as pork and had no trouble describing the statue's importance in their lives, although few of them cited the economic transformation of the South.
"It's where I had my first kiss," said Laura Hardy, a waitress at Jim and Nick's Barbecue, citing a common reason for idolatry at the park.
"I had to stare at it every day in math class," said Ellen Bellsnyder, a colleague at the restaurant, whose high school was near the park. "Now it's just an empty pedestal, and I miss it."
Granted, some of the city's affection for Vulcan was rooted in its slightly silly grandiosity, as it lacks the timeless grace of, say, the Statue of Liberty or Michelangelo's David. But there have been worse reasons for spending federal money. As The Birmingham News wrote a few years ago:
"Sure, he's a green, scantily clad pagan. But at least he's our green, scantily clad pagan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The head and chest of the statue of Vulcan, as its parts lie spread out in Vulcan Park in Birmingham, Ala. Below, the moon rose over the statue on Sept. 22, 1999, the last time before it was dismantled. (Melissa Springer for The New York Times); (Associated Press) Chart/Illustration: "Restoring A Symbol"The Vulcan statue in Birmingham, Ala., awaits restoration. Illustrations of the Statue of Liberty and Vulcan comparing the two in size.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%); CITIES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%) MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (93%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) BIRMINGHAM (ALA); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



487 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Bush Setting Limits On Reworking of ABM Pact
The Bush administration has decided that in seeking to work out a new understanding with Moscow to replace the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972 the United States will not accept any agreement that limits the development of antimissile defenses, an official said. A1

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the Russian foreign minister held talks in Rome. In Moscow, Mr. Putin said he was open to negotiating an accord over a limited missile defense without discarding decades of arms control agreements. A12

Police officers in Genoa, Italy, secured a six-square-mile area where world leaders will meet; some anti-globalization groups pledged to penetrate it. Mr. Bush arrived in London to begin his weeklong trip to Britain, Italy and Kosovo. A12

A Charge in Okinawa Rape
Air Force Staff Sgt. Timothy Woodland was charged with rape in connection with an attack on a 20-year-old Japanese woman on Okinawa. A6

Egypt Cracks Down on Gays
Fifty-two men were charged in a state security court with engaging in immoral acts or religious offenses in a high-profile crackdown on suspected homosexual activity that has been condemned by some legal activists and human rights groups. A10

Pardon for Assassin's Friend
President Moshe Katsav of Israel pardoned Margalit Har-Shefia, 25, left, who was jailed for not telling what she knew about the intentions of her friend Yigal Amir, the right-wing religious extremist who killed Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 1995. A10

Macedonia Peace Hopes Dim
Macedonian Slav and Albanian leaders appeared unable to reach a political agreement to end a five-month-old conflict, after nearly two weeks of intensive Western-brokered negotiations. A4

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A14-22

G.O.P. Dissension Delays Voting on Charities Plan
House Republican leaders, faced with a threatened rebellion by moderates in their party, abruptly delayed voting on President Bush's initiative to funnel more federal money to religious groups to deliver social services. The moderates questioned whether the bill would override local and state laws protecting gays from discrimination. A1

Bush Ally Backs Cell Studies
Senator Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican who is also a transplant surgeon, abortion opponent and close ally of President Bush, said he supported federal financing for stem cell research under certain conditions. A1

Cheney Panel's Records Sought
The General Accounting Office demanded that Vice President Dick Cheney turn over records relating to the development of his energy task force's policies. A20

Action on Fuel Efficiency
The House Energy and Commerce Committee moved to require slightly higher fuel economy from sport utility vehicles, minivans and light trucks, but it voted against calls for major economy increases. Environmentalists promised to take the fight to the House floor. A20

Children's Lot Found to Improve
A federal report said that by many social, financial, educational and health measures, the well-being of America's children was improving, though children remain more likely than adults to live in poverty. A14

California Turnaround
A cool July and effective conservation efforts have taken the state out from under the specter of blackouts and shortages and into a position from which it is able to sell surplus electrical power back to a glutted market, though at a loss. A1

Police Back Off After Protests
Three months after Cincinnati was traumatized by street clashes and vandalism, the police have retreated from "pro-active" patrols in black neighborhoods, saying they fear fresh charges of racism. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Third-Party Fund-Raising Is Boon to Hevesi Campaign
Alan G. Hevesi's mayoral campaign received donations bundled by lawyers, executives, bankers and other intermediaries at a rate that far exceeded those of his Democratic rivals in the last six months, campaign finance reports show. But his campaign also led all others in returning donations for ethical considerations. The data also confirm that the real estate industry is hedging its bets by spreading dollars among the candidates. B1

EDUCATION

Big Admen on Campus
Two enterprising New Jersey high school seniors have persuaded a credit card company to underwrite their college educations for $40,000 each in exchange for their wearing of the company's logo and being its "spokesguys" among their peers. B1

CIRCUITS G1-10

ARTS E1-12

Naming Rights for a Donation
The Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History has offered to let General Motors name a new hall of transportation in exchange for a $10 million gift. A14

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

OBITUARIES B9

SPORTS D1-8

A Retreat on Pitch Counts
Baseball officials backed off a plan to use the number of pitches in a game as a measure of an umpire's performance, a tactic that umpires construed as an effort to expand the strike zone to speed up the game. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Fed Chief Hints at More Cuts
Alan Greenspan said the economy remained weak and susceptible to bad news, and he hinted that more rate cuts could be coming. A1

Amex Paring Down Labor Force
American Express will cut as many as 5,000 jobs, on top of 1,600 already cut this year, and take more than $1 billion in charges this quarter. C1

Mixed Report From AOL
AOL Time Warner had higher profit margins in crucial units and a lower loss than in the same quarter a year ago, but revenue growth lagged. C1

AT&T Holding On to Cable Unit
AT&T's board rejected Comcast's unsolicited bid to acquire AT&T's cable operation, but the board also delayed its own plan to spin off the cable unit as an independent company. C1

Offshore Tax Havens Popular
Tax evasion by Americans using offshore accounts is rising, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Clueless on global warming; the tuberculosis threat; cleaning up stock market research.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E10
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); RELIGION (71%); BIOETHICS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); ABORTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ITALY (88%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



488 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Decline on Bleak Earnings Reports

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell yesterday as investors digested another round of bleak corporate earnings reports along with downbeat comments from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve's chairman, about the economy's continuing weakness.
 Mr. Greenspan told the House Financial Services Committee that the Fed's six interest rate reductions should help bolster the sluggish American economy later this year. 
 But, he said, "we are not yet free of the risk that economic weakness will be greater than currently anticipated and require further policy response."
Analysts said Mr. Greenspan's comments further frustrated investors, many of whom already said they believed that an economic recovery was still far off. 
"For now, the good news is that the Fed does realize that at least another rate cut is in order, but that does not indicate when capital spending is likely to improve," said Alan Ackerman, a market strategist at Fahnestock & Company. 
The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 51.15 points, or 2.5 percent, to close at 2,016.17. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 36.56 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,569.83. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.73 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,207.71.
After a broad market rally on Tuesday, in which investors looked past negative earnings reports and focused on forecasts, stocks fell sharply yesterday morning in the wake of disappointing earnings reports.
Shares of Intel, the computer chip maker, fell $1.01, to $28.89, after the company reported Tuesday that its profits dropped 76 percent.
EMC lost $2.34, to $18.05 after the company, a data storage provider, posted a 75 percent decline in its earnings and warned that its financial outlook for the third quarter was worse than it had been for the second quarter.
Veritas Software fell $13.34, to $37.08 , after the company lowered its revenue growth rate for the next quarter because of the decline in corporate technology spending.
The disappointing news from Veritas, which sells data storage software, cast a pall over other software companies, especially those with which it competes. Computer Associates International lost $1.35, to $33.40, and Legato Systems fell $1.52, to $11.99.
Siebel Systems, another software maker, lost $5.91, to $37.64, in regular trading. Late yesterday, the company reported earnings that exceeded Wall Street's estimates but its software sales were weaker than analysts expected. In after-hours trading, Siebel's stock fell $2.77, to $34.87.
Shares of AOL Time Warner fell $4.80, to $44.65 after the company reported revenue that failed to meet expectations. Although AOL's revenue rose 3 percent, to $9.2 billion, analysts predicted it would report revenue of $9.74 billion.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Up
 (By Reuters) -- Treasury bond prices rallied yesterday, pushing long-term yields to three-month lows, after Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said more interest rate cuts might be needed to help revive the sluggish economy.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 25/32, to a price of 99 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.09 percent from 5.20 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 12/32, to 97 30/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.52 percent from 5.59 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Chart tracks 15-year and 30-year rates from March through July.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (86%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); MICROPROCESSORS (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); CA INC (82%); AOL INC (80%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (69%); INTEL CORP (56%); SYMANTEC CORP (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); CA (NASDAQ) (82%); AOL (NYSE) (80%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001 



489 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Sweetness and Light at a Brothel? It Still Sounds Pretty Grim

BYLINE:  By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:
BROTHEL
Mustang Ranch and Its Women
By Alexa Albert
271 pages. Random House. $24.95.
 When the federal government closed the Mustang Ranch in Nevada in August 1999 after fraud and racketeering verdicts were returned against its owners, the brothel was the oldest and most famous in the state. Prostitution was legal in Storey County, and the bordello had been the county's third largest employer, after the Kal Kan pet-food factory and the school district. It supplied some $500,000 a year in tax revenues, one-eighth of the county's $4 million budget. 
 In her new book, Alexa Albert, a Harvard Medical School graduate, gives readers a guided tour through the hermetic subculture of Mustang Ranch. The book, which grew out of a public-health survey and spans several years in the 90's, provides an often intriguing look at the economics and emotional dynamics of the brothel but is seriously undermined by the author's lack of reportorial skills, her failure to back up her anecdotal material with supporting information and her penchant for gross generalizations.
Ms. Albert starts her work with a dogmatic preconception: "I had long believed that prostitution represented 'badness' on multiple levels," she writes. "Practically, it disturbed me because of the dangers to the women who practiced it. Politically, I thought prostitution degraded all women."
After multiple visits to Mustang Ranch, she reaches an equally sweeping and dubious conclusion. She not only ratifies the reasoning of proponents of legalized prostitution -- that "it's naive to believe that prostitution can ever be eliminated" and "only when we recognize and validate the work of professional prostitutes can we expect them to practice their trade safely and responsibly" -- but she also celebrates "the humanity that's at the core of this complex and timeless profession."
"The brothel had provided an income as well as friendship, compassion, trust and hope for countless women and men," she writes. "In many ways, Mustang Ranch picked up where society had dropped the ball. It had provided a safe, nonjudgmental, economically sound work environment and a fair way for a community of several dozen women and their families to meet their most basic needs." In the book's acknowledgments, Ms. Albert adds that she owes an unpayable debt to George Flint, executive director of the Nevada Brothel Association, an unabashed lobbyist for the prostitution business, "for trusting me and for opening the doors to this exotic world."
Though this volume attests to friendships among some members of the Mustang Ranch, though it profiles several hard-working women who chose to become prostitutes to support their families, this concluding paean to the brothel business flies in the face of the indignities and unfairnesses Ms. Albert chronicles in earlier chapters of her book.
Early on she observes that "the brothel residents actually lived like animals in a zoo": the prostitutes "were required to remain on the premises and were let out for fresh-air breaks only in the enclosed front and back yards." To go into town on an errand, they were required to hire "a runner or escort" at their own expense, and they were prohibited from making phone calls on weekends. Each woman's room was equipped with a hidden intercom system that enabled management to eavesdrop on their negotiations with clients, and unannounced room searches were frequently conducted as well.
Although Ms. Albert notes that most of the Mustang women "possessed a profound sense of personal responsibility and an unwavering commitment to their families that ultimately drove them to do this 'immoral' work" many had ended up at the ranch because their boyfriends or husbands had pressured them into the business to make money. "Knowing that so many of these women had been manipulated by men they loved," Ms. Albert writes at one point, "cast them in a new, more tragic light."
As for female solidarity at Mustang -- where the women are required to split their earnings 50-50 with the house and receive no employee benefits -- it is intermittent at best. For all the talk about the brothel being a family, there is fierce competition among the women and occasional incidents of intimidation. (A new prostitute named Heather, for instance, discovers that someone has put Nair in her shampoo.) "When I asked the women why they hadn't organized to form a union or joined together to purchase a brothel themselves," Ms. Albert writes, "most of the prostitutes rolled their eyes and said they could never trust 'another ho.' "
Those passages in which Ms. Albert stops editorializing and simply describes the facts of life at Mustang Ranch are considerably more compelling. She tells us that the women work 12-hour shifts, and average six customers a day. They negotiate with customers over a price, which ranges from $150 to $500, "depending on the time of day, the day of the week, the customer's attitude and how drunk or high he was." Baby, one of the ranch's most successful women, services 70 to 80 customers a week, generating some $300,000 worth of revenue for the brothel in seven months of work.
Whereas Baby says she takes real pride in her work, arguing that prostitution is "a very intimate, service-oriented, people-oriented profession," other women cited in this book are decidedly less upbeat. Donna recounts how her 42-year-old husband, who claimed he was unable to find a job himself, sent her off to Mustang Ranch despite her tears, and gave her a $4,000 monthly quota. Daisy, who later retired from the profession, asserts that the "first words that come to mind" about her work as a prostitute are "degraded, dehumanized, used, victim, ashamed, humiliated, embarrassed, insulted, slave, rape, violated."
In playing down or completely ignoring such comments in her summation, Ms. Albert reveals herself to be an inept reporter and the author of a deeply flawed book.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexa Albert (Ben Hurlbutt/Random House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROSTITUTION (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DECRIMINALIZATION (77%); LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); PET FOODS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); PET FOOD MFG (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%) PROSTITUTION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: MUSTANG RANCH (BROTHEL) (NEVADA) 

PERSON: ALBERT, ALEXA; KAKUTANI, MICHIKO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEVADA

TITLE: BROTHEL: MUSTANG RANCH AND ITS WOMEN (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



490 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Profit Soars at German Software Giant 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 19 

 BODY:
Europe's biggest software maker, SAP of Germany, outpaced rivals and broke ranks with the Continent's gloom-laden technology business today, beating analysts' forecasts with a report of a 78 percent rise in second-quarter profit and offering a bullish forecast for the full year.
 SAP's shares rose more than 11 percent in Frankfurt, outperforming leading technology and blue-chip indexes. Its American shares climbed almost 12 percent. 
 The results suggested that SAP is ahead of American rivals like Oracle, i2 Technologies and Siebel Systems, which compete to supply back-office computer applications enabling businesses to manage an array of operations from inventory control to accounting, increasingly over the Internet.
Both i2 Technologies and Siebel Systems made far less hopeful forecasts on Wednesday.
Analysts ascribed SAP's performance to a broader geographic spread than many of its rivals and its strong position in Europe, despite problems last year with its mySAP.com e-business software.
Across Europe, moreover, customers have slowed purchases of high-technology products, from semiconductors to mobile phones, as they wait out an economic slowdown that has spread from the United States. But, because SAP has some 14,000 existing customers using its products, it is able to sell them updated Internet software, analysts said.
As companies spend less, "it's clear that the big fish will do better," Hasso Plattner, the co-chief executive, told a news conference in New York.
SAP said net income in the second quarter ended June 30 rose to 206 million euros ($179 million), from 116 million euros in the period last year. Sales were up 24 percent, to 1.85 billion euros ($1.6 billion). Excluding the cost of a stock option program and a flurry of acquisitions, margins increased to 23 percent from 16 percent a year earlier.
The second quarter brought major contracts with companies including Compaq in the United States, and major European concerns like AstraZeneca, Nokia and Siemens, the company said.
SAP has said it expects sales growth for the first nine months to outpace last year's 23 percent, and it said today that it expected full-year revenue in 2001 to grow by more than 20 percent. That could imply tougher conditions in the fourth quarter, where many big technology companies are shying from forecasts, said Daud Khan, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hasso Plattner, co-chief executive of SAP, in New York yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); EURO (69%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SAP AG (96%); ORACLE CORP (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SIEMENS AG (58%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SAP AG 

TICKER: SAP (NYSE) (96%); SAP (FRA) (96%); SAP (BIT) (96%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (94%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); AZN (STO) (52%); AZN (NYSE) (52%); AZN (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (74%) EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



491 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 5912 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

"A CENTURY OF DESIGN, PART 4: 1975-2000," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 81st Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Jan. 6). The tangle of design trends in the last quarter-century is seen in the tables, chairs, lamps, architectural projects, fabrics, dining implements, a windup lantern, a lemon squeezer and a wristwatch that furnish this internationally minded show. What remains of the function-loving Modernist style appears in Mario Botta's sleek 1982 armchair, whose skeletal frame of matte-finished steel is enhanced only by a gridded black bottom and two back-supporting rolls of polyurethane. Postmodernism, with its backward look to neo-classical forms and materials, has a heavy presence, prominent in a rendering of Ricardo Bofill's stretch Greek temple design for an enormous apartment house in Versailles, France. The green movement, with its socially responsive environmental conscience, and the incorporation of scientific concepts in everyday objects are two other areas represented here. Some of the work is very playful, notably a wildly confused but lovable table by the Italian designer Ettore Sottsass. From this show you could get the idea that the last quarter of the 20th century was not the weightiest era in design history. And you would not be wrong. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $5 for students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; and spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded by an elegance, an economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

* AFRICAN GALLERIES, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (on long-term view). The museum has one of the oldest and most important collections of African art in the country. Just a few years ago, 250 objects from the permanent collection were installed in revamped first-floor galleries; now two dozen pieces have been added and the space has been redesigned again, this time with multicolored walls, mural-size color photographs, documentary films and ambient sound. Added works expand the definition of African to include both Morocco and ancient Nubia. And the overall selection, from familiar friends to treasures recently acquired, is thrilling. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $4; $2 for students and 62+ (Holland Cotter)

* "AFRICAN, OCEANIC AND ANCIENT AMERICAN ART: RECENT ACQUISITIONS," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Oct. 28). One of the best new group shows in the city is sitting smack in the middle of the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing at the Met, and you've probably never seen the likes of much of what's in it. The 70 pieces all arrived at the Met as gifts or purchases over the last five years. They take many forms, from devotional icons to notebook drawings to Sunday-best hats, and they span centuries and continents, from a tiny Mexican ceramic mask made around the ninth century B.C. to a hummingbird-colored silk mantle woven in Madagascar in 1998. A bottom line to such diversity? Almost everything here was meant to have some contact with the human body: to be worn, carried, caressed. This is art with the velvet ropes down. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

"AZTLAN TODAY: THE CHICANO POSTNATION," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, (718) 681-6000 (through Sept. 9). Removed in time from the intensely political art of the Chicano civil rights era, almost everything in this show of recent work takes the form of conceptually based photography and video. The tone is low-key; the polish is high. A stance of rooted historical witness has been replaced by ambiguity. Ethnic identity is treated alternately with shrewd comic flair, tender theatricality or autobiographical intimacy. The work is strong; of particular interest is the way it suggests subtle changes in the nature of political art through the 1990's. Hours: Wednesdays noon to 9 p.m.; Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $3; $2 for students and 65+ (Cotter)

* "BEAUTY, HONOR AND TRADITION: THE LEGACY OF PLAINS INDIAN SHIRTS," National Museum of the American Indian, at the United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700 (through Nov. 4). To Plains Indians of the 18th and 19th centuries, magnificently decorated hide shirts were symbols of bravery earned in battle by only the most courageous. Obsessively fringed and embellished with porcupine quills, paint, ribbon, hair and later, tight patterns of colored glass beads, the shirts took on the spirits of their owners and even today are made for wearing at powwows and in recognition of other accomplishments. Celebrating the power of this glory gear, almost 50 dazzlers in the museum's collection are on view, dating from about 1820 to the 1990's. Among the more fascinating examples are a brilliantly painted Crow shirt (1890) with beadwork in geometric patterns and frizzy fringes of dyed magenta and yellow hair and a Lakota shirt, circa 1890, that carries United States Army insignia, the American flag and stepped tepees topped by crosses, all worked in porcupine quills and metal beads. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Free. (Glueck).

"BEYOND THE EASEL: DECORATIVE PAINTING BY BONNARD, VUILLARD, DENIS AND ROUSSEL, 1890-1930," Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sept. 9.) The themes of the 80 or so French paintings in this show, created for bourgeois homes by artists who called themselves the Nabis, couldn't be more lightweight: city parks and country gardens, gift-wrapped tots and fusspot nannies, with the occasional nymph thrown in for tone. Yet the results, with their clotted textures and mildewy palettes of puce, mauve and brown, often look leaden and suffocating, trapped in nostalgia. Bonnard and Vuillard, unsurprisingly, come off best; Maurice Denis and Ker Xavier Roussel less well. Works that haven't been seen together for a century have been gathered for the occasion. Of most interest, though, is the concept of decoration that the Nabis promoted, one that was at once radical and reactionary. Hours and admissions: see above (Cotter).

"MARC CHAGALL: EARLY WORKS FROM RUSSIAN COLLECTIONS," Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through Oct. 14). When Chagall returned to Russia in 1914 after four years in Paris, he intended to marry his beloved fiancee, Bella Rosenfeld, and hurry back to the French capital. Instead World War I and the Russian Revolution kept him in his homeland for eight years, during which he did some of his greatest work. The 60 artworks here, most being exhibited in the West for the first time, form a series of intense Chagallian doses rather than a comprehensive overview. They are accompanied by nine paintings by Chagall's first teacher, the sensitive realist Yehuda Pen. The show culminates in the seven large, deliriously inventive murals Chagall made for the Jewish State Chamber Theater in Moscow during three feverish months in 1920. Hours: Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50 for students and 65+ ($2 surcharge for "Chagall") (Smith).

* JACQUES AND NATASHA GELMAN GALLERIES, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5000 (continuing). These glorious new galleries display 50 French modern works, almost all paintings, drawn from the Gelmans' collection. In addition to the paintings here, the collection includes five sculptures, more than 30 drawings and a major work on paper: a Matisse cutout, the Met's first, which will be shown in a subsequent hanging. The standouts installed here include Matisse's Fauve masterpiece "The Young Sailor II"; a matched set of small, classic Cubist paintings, one by Picasso, one by Braque, both from 1911, arguably the high point of their collaboration; and a fantastically refined, sexually fraught 1929 Dali, "Accommodations of Desires." It is a selection that is not only consistent in its high quality but also, for all the big names and visual firepower, surprisingly personal. It makes the museum a modern art destination in a way that it has never quite been before. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

* WILLIAM KENTRIDGE, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 16). By way of drawings and film animations, Mr. Kentridge uses searing images to address South Africa and its racial problems, along with the longings and frustrations of bourgeois lives played out in the country's deeply dysfunctional setting. The exhibition begins with his jarring "Shadow Procession" (1999), a ragtag parade of silhouetted moving images projected on a big screen, which evokes the displaced and dispossessed who haunt not only South Africa but also the history of the world. At the heart of the show are his drawings and the short animated films he makes of them, in which the process shares importance with the content. Many of the films contrast the lives of two antiheroes, one a crude rapacious businessman, the other a sensitive artist, in compelling medleys of images that touch on the personal and the political. Departing from this format is "Ubu Tells the Truth" (1997), a highly charged satire based on the hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, set up in 1995 to investigate human rights abuses in the apartheid era. It's not often that good art is shaped from such raw angry material, but Mr. Kentridge's powers of invention are equal to the challenge. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3 for students, artists and 65+ (Glueck).

* "MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through Aug. 19). From Michelangelo to Louise Bourgeois, from Rembrandt to Franz Kline, this cornucopia of drawings from one of the most important collections in the United States bristles with the work of stellar talents. A standout is a double-sided drawing in red chalk by Michelangelo, probably done around 1510-11. One side reveals the trouble he had sketching a foot that fits the position of a youthful male nude on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel; the other shows the headless nude. A rare compositional drawing by Fra Filippo Lippi, a subtly toned landscape by Claude Lorrain, a scene of battling horses by Gericault, a stately portrait by Ingres, one of Seurat's brilliant black crayon drawings of a French vaudeville scene, and works by Degas and Toulouse-Lautrec are among the highlights. The 20th-century American group is something of a disappointment, but there are enough great things from other eras to make this a masterpiece of a show. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6 for students and 65+ (Glueck).

"MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE SMITH COLLEGE MUSEUM OF ART," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Aug. 12). This selection of drawings spanning six centuries has compelling works on paper by some of the more resonant names in Western art history, names like Tiepolo, Boucher, Ingres, Gericault, Beardsley, van Gogh, Mondrian and others. There are works of only academic proficiency, but in far more cases the drawing sings: in the 15th-century Italian Rosso Fiorentino's near-orgiastic vision of a double martyrdom made with urgent sensuousness in red chalk, for example, or Seurat's studies for "La Grande Jatte," in which broad, deft swipes of a black crayon evoke the silhouettes of women who seem almost dissolved by watery light (Ken Johnson).

*"MIGRATIONS: HUMANITY IN TRANSITION," photographs by Sebastiao Salgado, International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 860-1777 (through Sept. 9). The show (there are two accompanying books) is the product of seven years in more than 35 countries documenting what Mr. Salgado calls "the reorganization of the human family," partly because of the shift from "majority rural to majority urban." His subjects are refugees, exiles, orphans, landless peasants, homeless families, boat people, internees and others. This is a sprawling, frequently gruesome story -- the scale and the gravity of it should speak for themselves -- and if the suffering doesn't prompt guilt, indifference to it will. That's how emotional blackmail and effective moral photojournalism work. Mr. Salgado practices both as well as anyone does these days. Of course the pictures are also explotaitive, but that's also a feature of photojournalism. We respond despite the voyeurism and the manipulation because of the formal beauty. The good photographs are so stupendously gorgeous that, for better and worse, they can make you forget everything else while you are looking at them. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6 for students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* WAYNE THIEBAUD: A PAINTINGS RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600 (through Sept. 23). The world not being a perfect place, this show will be around only through the summer, so consider yourself forewarned. At the Whitney, as in life, happiness is fleeting. Meanwhile, you are free to bask in these pumpkin pies, meat and cheese deli counters, lipsticks, hot dogs and gum-ball machines, which, as Mr. Thiebaud has painted them for the last 40 years, have the aura of loves lost and too fondly recalled. Joy yielding to melancholy then yields to the less jolting but more durable satisfaction of being in the presence of pictures so lovingly and wittily made. These pictures provoke happiness if for no other reason than that they are content to be what they are, which is enough, this being the same message they convey about the modest objects and people they depict. (A smaller show of recent work by Mr. Thiebaud is at Allan Stone Gallery, 113 East 90th Street, through today; information: 212-987-4997.) Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8 for students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

Galleries: Uptown

LOCKWOOD DE FOREST, Richard York, 21 East 65th Street, (212) 772-9155 (through July 27). By no means a name to reckon with in the pantheon of American view makers, de Forest (1850-1932) specialized in unpretentious small sketches meant to convey the feeling of a place rather than dwell on its physical attributes. His work, until recently kept mostly in family hands, was a visual diary of his many wanderings. In contrast to the taste of the time, he regarded his sketches as finished works, focusing, even in exotic locations like Egypt, India, Syria, Greece and Mexico, on village life, stretches of dunes, desert rocks, tree-lined shores and distant mountains bathed in fog. For those who like their countrysides relaxed and uninvasive, this show will appeal (Glueck).

"MINIMAL," Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677 (through Aug. 10; reopens Aug. 27 to 31). This elegant show includes works of classic Minimalism like a box made of stainless steel and fluorescent red Plexiglas by Donald Judd; an iconic arrangement of red, pink and yellow fluorescent lights by Dan Flavin; and a gorgeous, glossy red, thick plank shape by John McCracken. It also embraces more Conceptually motivated works, like words on the wall by Lawrence Weiner that say "Around the bend"; a square of typewritten concrete poetry by Carl Andre; and photographs of framework houses by Bernd and Hilla Becher (Johnson).

* "POP ART: THE JOHN AND KIMIKO POWERS COLLECTION," Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street, (212) 744-2313 (through Aug. 31). With his Japanese-born wife, Kimiko, John Powers (1916-1999), a former president of the Prentice-Hall publishing company, gathered a big-bang collection of Pop Art by the movement's stars. The 26 objects shown here, including works by Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Claes Oldenburg, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol and James Rosenquist, are mostly from the 1960's, and they bring a whole era back into vivid focus. Among the signature works are Warhol's serial extravaganza, "200 Soup Cans" (1962); Mr. Rauschenberg's "Broadcast" (1959), a combine painting with a working radio attached; and Mr. Oldenburg's soft "Drum Set" (1967), a bodylike sendup of a professional drummer's instruments in vinyl and canvas that droops on a platform in a metaphor for its own spent energy. Collectors' collectors, the Powerses made the pursuit of art into an art of their own (Glueck).

"VOYAGES: A SMITHSONIAN LIBRARIES EXHIBITION," Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690 (through Aug. 4). Mostly a selection of mostly rare books with some curious objects also, "Voyages" offers a miniature cross section of the vast holdings of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries. Contents range from remarkable antiquities like "Mundus Subterraneus" by the 17th-century Dutch scholar Athanasius Kircher, thought to be the earliest printed study of geophysics and vulcanology, to a copy of Neil Armstrong's "Stroll on the Moon," which is signed by the author and the fellow astronauts Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. (Johnson).

PAUL WEINGARTEN; ADOLFO BARNATAN, Salander-O'Reilly, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 879-6606 (through July 27). The thickly painted, acid-hued still lifes of lobsters and fish, fruits and vegetables, and homey kitchenware by Paul Weingarten of Montclair, N.J., have a hectic, expressionistic energy that calls to mind Chaim Soutine, though without his melting sensuousness. The Madrid-based Mr. Baratan's smooth, simplified sculptures in stone include ancient Egyptian-style heads arranged in a Modernist grid and flat, near-Minimalist discs that evoke the sun and the moon (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

ADA GILMORE: "THE SUMMER OF 1915: WATERCOLORS FROM PROVINCETOWN," Mary Ryan, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 397-0669 (through July 31). All 22 paintings in this modestly radiant exhibition were made on the backs of official United States Postal Service postcards during the year after World War I drove this American Modernist from Paris to Provincetown. Gilmore's sunny, Impressionistic pictures of women gardening or doing laundry or views of houses among trees become more absorbing the more you look. Like her most obvious influence, Vuillard, she worked a fine balance between vibrantly patterned surface and evocative domestic space (Johnson).

MORRIS GRAVES, "Still Life," Schmidt Bingham, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 888-1122 (through Aug. 17). This small retrospective honors a great American original who died in May at 90. Ranging from vigorously palette-knifed paintings of drinking fountains from the 1930's to exquisitely delicate pictures of flowers in transparent bottles from the 90's, the show gives a fine taste of Graves's craftsmanlike versatility and his modest yet intense poetic sensibility (Johnson).

ALEXANDER LIBERMAN, "Maquettes for Monuments," Ameringer/Howard, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 935-1110 (through Aug. 10). In the late 1960's, this Modernist sculptor and Conde Nast editorial director produced gigantic abstractions using old, unearthed gas pipes. On view here are sleek little copies of those monumental works, compositions of standing, leaning or tumbling cylinders finished in glossy red or matte rust-colored patina. Though not deeply consequential, they are appealingly precious (Johnson).

"SIGNS OF LIFE," Ramis Barquet, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-9090 (through July 27). This disjunctive but interesting six-artist show includes lively, comically erotic semi-abstract pink paintings by Fernanda Brunet; tires with treads recarved into traditional decorative motifs by Betsabee Romero; strangely clinical photographs of a man in his underwear by Ernesto Pujol; small, iconic realist paintings by Marco Arce; a droopy shaped painting by Leda Catunda; and a funny video by Ximena Cuevas in which she breathlessly practices introducing herself to the video curator John Hanhardt (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

JOHN BALDESSARI, JEFF KOONS, TOM WESSELMANN, Sonnabend, 536 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-1018 (through July 27). The big surprise is how shockingly uninteresting one finds Mr. Koons's dry, anonymously painted, Rosenquist-style montages. Mr. Baldessari's new photo-constructions offer the familiar conceptual impenetrability and visual enervation that have always characterized his least interesting works. But the unassuming hedonism of Mr. Wesselmann's three cutout steel works -- a rippling abstraction, a still life and a cartoon landscape -- is delightfully if not deeply seductive (Johnson).

"BEING THERE," Derek Eller, 526-30 West 25th Street, (212) 206-6411 (through July 27). Highlights of this lively eight-artist show include Carl D'Alvia's bionic monkey and child; Jeff Sonhouses' masklike face finely painted in watercolor with an Afro of real burned matches; Tricia Keightly's neo-Art Nouveau abstract painting; a comical, quirkily detailed landscape painted by Johan Nobell; and, by Jennifer Sirey, a wobbly, pyramidal tower of glass boxes with moldy interiors (Johnson).

JACQUELINE BOOTIER, "Basic Training," Lombard/Freid, 531 West 26th Street, (212) 967-8040 (through July 27). This promising show of exuberantly painterly pictures based on old family snapshots is Ms. Bootier's first solo. The L.A.-based artist trowels swathes of thick paint this way and that, creating vibrant, fractured spaces around lumpy, gnarly figures. In "Potty Training" a sad little girl with her pants down seems overwhelmed by the inexplicable and chaotic pressures of her young life (Johnson).

"CAMERA WORKS: THE PHOTOGRAPHIC IMPULSE IN CONTEMPORARY ART," Marianne Boesky Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 680-9889 (through Aug. 11). Despite the encompassing title, this show focuses almost exclusively on photographs by 31 established artists, mostly in their 30's and 40's, who are not known primarily, if at all, for working with the camera. Usual suspects are in the majority, from Ross Bleckner to Lisa Yuskavage, with Peter Doig, Jessica Stockholder, Rachel Whiteread and Gregor Schneider in between. But there are still plenty of surprises and revelations, especially when you find yourself thinking that some of the assembled should stick to photography (Smith).

JASON DUVAL, Marcello Marvelli, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-3363 (through Aug. 5). The small, blocky abstractions in this young painter's first solo exhibition have a painterly touch that veers from graceful to brusque and a finely tuned sense of color. At best, in two larger, more finished works that call to mind the paintings of Thomas Nozkowski, the circulating line, semi-transparent glazes and vibrating play of reds or greens reward extended contemplation (Johnson).

ENEAS, "Thriller," Esso, 211 West 28th Street, (212) 560-9728, (through Aug. 16). Every canvas in this empty but archly sophisticated display of insider gamesmanship has the name Michael Jackson stenciled across the top above a skillful simulation of gesture or drip painting by Jackson Pollock, who shares a name with the mercurial pop star. These works so closely resemble George Condo's jazz album cover paintings you can't help but suspect the sly Condo might have invented Eneas. (Johnson).

NEIL FARBER: NEW DRAWINGS, Clementine Gallery, 526 West 26th Street,(212) 243-5937 (through July 27). Children, cats, the Devil and hell are recurrent themes for this young Canadian artist, whose cartoony, vaguely "Peanuts"-like whimsies seem to proliferate like rabbits on the gallery walls. In his artfully artless drawings, sometimes mordant, sometimes terminally cute, animals morph into more unaccustomed creatures; children drink poison and descend to the netherworld; a pair of swallowed birds preen in the stomach of a smug cat. His free flow of the pen could use, if not quenching, a little editing (Glueck).

"FOUR ABSTRACT CLASSICISTS," Gary Snyder, 601 West 29th Street, (212) 871-1077 (through Aug. 25). This punchy time capsule of a show features works from the 1950's and 60's by four West Coast painters of hard-edged abstraction -- Karl Benjamin, Lorser Feitelson, Frederick Hammersley and John McLaughlin. The exhibition recalls a generational shift away from Abstract Expressionism toward the cooler aesthetics of the 1960's. Its title invites reflection on the paradoxical tension in reductive abstraction between historical avant-gardism and timeless formalism (Johnson).

RICHARD HAMILTON, "Prints, 1968-1998," Charles Cowles Gallery, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through Aug. 17). James Joyce's "Ulysses" and tabloid subjects like Mick Jagger's arrest for drug possession are part of the huge print repertory of the English painter Richard Hamilton. Mr. Hamilton is wide-ranging not only in subject matter but also in print technique; while not dispensing with venerable practices like etching and engraving, he sets no limits on technical possibilities, fooling around with contemporary techniques from silk-screening to computer manipulation of digital images, sometimes using several in the same print. This wonderfully animated show illustrates his belief that images will always be more important than the manner of their execution. But it also reveals the role that technical innovation plays in the impact of his graphic work (Glueck).

"HEAT," Margaret Thatcher, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 675-0222 (through July 27). This intentionally dissonant and overcrowded exhibition has some interesting things in it, like Patrick Wilson's smooth, dark red monochrome painting; a drippy, candy-colored stripe painting by Markus Linnenbrink; odd, slightly comical, smoothly carved lumps of marble by Venske and Spanle; and a radiating, psychedelic, computer-generated print by Daren Kendall (Johnson).

"SUPERIMPOSITION," Caren Golden Fine Art, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 727-8304 (through July 27). This smart group show by mostly young American artists, organized by the critic David Hunt, focuses on art based on stacking, layering, volume or the illusion of depth. One sculpture is made from vertically arranged reels of film, another from painstakingly assembled stones. A painting is composed from layers of drizzled paint; a fabric relief from a free-associational network of words. The deep space of science fiction gets some play in a Minimalist wall piece that doubles as a star ship control panel. And a digital work weaves together personal references, abstract forms and music (Cotter).

"THE WEDDING SHOW," Casey Kaplan, 416 West 14th Street, (212) 645-7335 (through July 31). The best piece in this miscellaneous roundup of gallery artists (titled in honor of Mr. Kaplan's recent nuptials) is Carsten Holler's reclining, hairless orangutan: with a life-size body of fleshy rubber, expressive glass eyes and bony toe- and fingernails, it has a winsome, almost human presence. Also noteworthy are Karen Yasinsky's drawing of Girl Scouts in the woods; Anna Gaskell's mysterious photographic narrative about nurses; and John Chilver's painterly play of abstraction around a primitive man and his campfire (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

AIDAS BAREIKIS, "Silence Before the Curve," Leo Koenig, 359 Broadway, near Grand Street, (212) 334-9255 (through July 28). Mr. Bareikis produces aggressively messy yet artfully color-coordinated installations of found objects, paint, wax, foam, plastic, scrapwood and many other materials. The main event is an epic spill of mostly silvery or transparent plastic materials, including helmets, tools, toys, human legs in motorcycle gear, a motorcycle partly dismantled and partly rebuilt out of found junk, and wax-drenched zombie-like figures struggling to rise from the wreckage (Johnson).

* LOUISE BOURGEOIS AND YAYOI KUSAMA, Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through July 28; reopens Aug. 21 to Sept. 15). Bringing Ms. Bourgeois and Ms. Kusama together for the first time in this illuminating drawing show was an inspired idea. Both have found inspiration in the wilder parts of consciousness, and both have long practiced repetitive mark-making. In a recent drawing by Ms. Bourgeois, nested ovals made in a scratchy red line create a primitivistic, enigmatically iconic image. Ms. Kusama's dot fields and all-over linear networks produce, at their best, eye-buzzing opticality and cosmic transcendentalism (Johnson).

TEUN HOCKS, P.P.O.W., 476 Broome Street, (212) 941-8642 (through Aug. 10). For his large, funny and mysterious photographs, this Dutch artist constructs and paints his own sets, and, like Buster Keaton or Magritte's bowler-hatted Everyman, performs actions that prompt philosophical meditation on reality and illusion. The image of the artist concentrating on a burning candle in his hand while the sun blazes behind him might be a metaphor about the human limits of spiritual perception (Johnson).

JUDI WERTHEIN AND LEANDRO ERLICH, "Turismo," Kent Gallery, 67 Prince Street, (212) 966-4500, (through Aug. 2). This photo-installation piece by two Argentine artists, a hit at the seventh Havana Biennial last fall, revolves around big color Polaroids of ordinary Cubans posing as they please in a loonily unlikely setting: a sparkling winter wonderland incorporating a bright Alpine backdrop, fake snow underfoot and props including skis, a sled and Styrofoam snowballs. The original snow-scene set is also here -- pristine, carefully lighted and inviting. Cultural and climatic contrasts abound, and the images point up the paradox that although Cuba is economically dependent upon tourism, its citizens are not free to travel. But these beautiful, joyful, ineluctably poignant images transcend such didacticism. They exemplify the best kind of site-specific, political art, one that makes its points effortlessly and travels well (Smith).

"WET!" Luise Ross Gallery, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 343-2161 (through July 27). Some summer group shows just want to have fun, and this one accomplishes the goal with admirable flair and ecumenicism. The slippery subject helps. Wetness is surveyed with a thoroughness that includes geography, food, sport and sex. The artists range from Sigmar Polke to Bill Traylor to Patty Chang and Nicole Eisenman, and the styles are just as various (Smith).

Other Galleries

TONY CRAGG, "Turbo-Ferryman," Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Fifth Avenue and 60th Street, (212) 980-4575 (through October). This year's Public Art Fund installation here consists of two bulbous bronze sculptures by a consistently interesting British sculptor. One is a perforated, biomorphic bottlelike form with wiggly arms going in and out of its body; the other is a big, asymmetrical shape, like a toy top with odd lumpy places. In a gallery either would be fine; outdoors they look too small. If one or the other were five times larger, it would be terrific (Johnson).

"FACES AND FIGURES: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY IN SCANDINAVIA," Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, near 38th Street, (212) 779-3587 (through July 29). Nordic photography makes a good showing here with a mix of established and lesser- known talents using a range of approaches, from documentary to personal diary. The aim is to dispel stereotypes about "coolness, control and psychic remoteness" in the words of Ann Sass, chief curator. And the show succeeds, with a humanscape of transvestite haunts in Paris, high jinks in Swedish suburbs, hunting and farming in Iceland, plain folk at home in Sweden, Christmas in Finland, prostitutes plying their trade in Denmark and children frolicking in Norway (Glueck).

Last Chance

* "ABCD: A COLLECTION OF ART BRUT," Museum of American Folk Art, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 977-7170 (through Sunday). Memorably vivid and widely abused, the phrase Art Brut (meaning raw or rough art) was coined in the 1940's by the French artist Jean Dubuffet. This exhibition, drawn from the holdings of a Paris-based foundation, tries to reinstate his original meaning, revisiting the amazing pantheon of artists who inspired it and proposing some additions. Its many highlights include works by acknowledged greats like Adolf Wolfli, Aloise Corbaz, Henry Darger and Augustin Lesage, but the show also introduces many equally riveting artists unfamiliar to American audiences. Hours: Today through Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Smith).

* "BETWEEN STREET AND MIRROR: THE DRAWINGS OF JAMES ENSOR," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166 (through tomorrow). The show's pleasure partly involves serendipity. This feels like the perfect moment for an oddball like Ensor, but maybe any time would feel like the right time for somebody whose work, whether it is appalling or fantastic (and it can be both simultaneously), looks eternally modern. The drawings are from the 1880's and 90's. Some started out as ordinary sketches of household objects to which faces and monsters were added, like Rorschachs of the artist's imagination. They somehow become more luminous and translucent the more densely they are drawn, an extraordinary paradox. On the other hand, when the drawings aren't dense, they can be vaporous like Turners, with an effect akin to looking back on a dream: you can't quite place what you are seeing. But the emotion the images provoke is stronger precisely because of the frustration attached to it. Ensor is one of those artists Americans tend to forget or never really knew properly. A hero in Europe, he is vastly deserving of reappraisal here (Kimmelman).

RACHEL LEE HOVNANIAN, "Isolation Beauty," David Beitzel, 102 Prince Street, SoHo,(212) 219-2863 (through today). In a simplifying style indebted in part to Alex Katz, Ms. Hovnanian paints the people, places and things of a comfortably privileged life. At her best, she conjures up a mysterious state of lonely suspension (Johnson).

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Suspended Artifact" (1993), by the American artist William Morris, is in "A Century of Design, Part 4" at the Metropolitan Museum. (Metropolitan Museum of Art); A book illustration in "Voyages," at the Grolier Club uptown. (Smithsonian Institution); Sebastiao Salgado's "Beach of Vung Tau, Vietnam" (1995), at the International Center of Photography. (Sebastiao Salgado/Contact, from Yancy Richardson Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); SCULPTURE (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); ETHNIC GROUPS (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); VIET NAM (59%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



492 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: 8 Months Later, Talks on Climate Treaty Restart, Now in Bonn 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: BONN, July 19 

 BODY:
Nearly eight months after formal talks over a proposed climate treaty fell apart in The Hague, negotiations resumed here today in nearly as tangled and troubled a state.
 Informal talks started on Monday, and today environment ministers and other senior diplomats who represented 178 nations took their seats. Jan Pronk, chairman of the talks since last year, admonished them to find consensus, albeit without the United States, the largest emitter of heat-trapping gases. The United States has rejected the treaty. 
 "We did a good job in Kyoto," Mr. Pronk, of the Netherlands, said, defending the document negotiated in 1997 in Japan. "It is the only game in town. It is the best we have." 
The accord, now called the Kyoto Protocol, would be the first treaty to require industrialized countries to cut emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases linked to a potentially disruptive warming trend. Because it could have just as many effects on economies as on the environment, negotiations have proved extraordinarily complex and contentious. 
In talks today, wealthy countries still disagreed over rules to measure cuts and punish those that failed to meet targets. Poor countries insisted that wealthy ones help pay for damage from changing temperatures and rising sea levels, and they want control over spending that money.
Although President Bush rejected the treaty months ago, the United States, even from the sidelines, threw a long shadow over the officials, corporate lobbyists and environmentalists who milled in the halls of the Maritim Hotel. American negotiators, ending their routine of nightly news conferences last year, remained deeply immersed in talks on points that they said could harm the country's interests. At least one point could imperil the effort to close out the talks and allow countries to seek ratification. That point is a proposal for a $1 billion-a-year fund to help developing countries.
Under a negotiating text used as a guide for the talks, some of that money would be paid by all countries that have signed an existing climate treaty, including the United States. That is a structure that some developing countries prefer, because it guarantees that they will receive the money even if the Kyoto Protocol never takes effect. But it could also theoretically mean that the United States would have to pay for parts of the Kyoto pact even though Mr. Bush has rejected it. 
At a news session this evening, Mr. Pronk appeared to side with Washington on that point. "If you are not becoming a party to the protocol," he said, "it would not be fair to be expected to have implicitly or indirectly similar obligations as those countries who become a party." 
That could become a sticking point at the conference if the developing countries, 134 of which act as a bloc, insist that the proposed payment structure follow the current plan.
Other disputes simmered unrelated to United States interests. Europe, Japan and Canada once again debated the merits of forests as a means of absorbing carbon dioxide. 
Generally, however, the tone was more subdued at this meeting than the one that was suspended last fall, when cream pies were thrown at American negotiators and protesters climbed to the rafters of the Dutch conference center.
"At The Hague, there was a sense of urgency," said Glenn Kelly, executive director of the Global Climate Coalition, a lobby in Washington that has fought the protocol through contributions from industry. "Here it's more like being at the wake for a not-so-well-liked second cousin." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); WEATHER (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); LOBBYING (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; PRONK, JAN (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



493 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: What the Protesters in Genoa Want 

BYLINE:  By Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri; Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri are the authors of "Empire."

 BODY:
Genoa, that Renaissance city known for both openness and shrewd political sophistication, is in crisis this weekend. It should have thrown its gates wide for the celebration of this summit of the world's most powerful leaders. But instead Genoa has been transformed into a medieval fortress of barricades with high-tech controls. The ruling ideology about the present form of globalization is that there is no alternative. And strangely, this restricts both the rulers and the ruled.
 Leaders of the Group of Eight have no choice but to attempt a show of political shrewdness. They try to appear charitable and transparent in their goals. They promise to aid the world's poor, and they genuflect to Pope John Paul II and his interests. But the real agenda is to renegotiate relations among the powerful, on issues like the construction of missile defense systems. 
 The leaders, however, seem detached somehow from the transformations around them, as though they were following the stage directions from a dated play. We can see the photo already, though it has not yet been taken: President George W. Bush as an unlikely king, bolstered by lesser monarchs. This is not quite an image of the future. It resembles more an archival photo, pre-1914, of superannuated royal potentates.
Those demonstrating against the summit in Genoa, however, are not distracted by these old-fashioned symbols of power. They know that a fundamentally new global system is being formed. The world can no longer be understood in terms of British, French, Russian or even American imperialism.
The many protests that have led up to Genoa were based on the recognition that no national power is in control of the present global order. Consequently, protests must be directed at international and supranational organizations like the G-8, the World Trade Organization, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The movements are not anti-American, as they often appear, but are aimed at a different, larger power structure.
If it is not national but supranational powers that rule today's globalization, however, we must recognize that this new order has no democratic institutional mechanisms for representation, as nation-states do: no elections, no public forum for debate.
The rulers are effectively blind and deaf to the ruled. The protesters take to the streets because this is the form of expression available to them. The lack of other venues and social mechanisms is not their creation.
Antiglobalization is not an adequate characterization of the protesters in Genoa (or Goteborg, Quebec, Prague, or Seattle). The globalization debate will remain hopelessly confused, in fact, unless we insist on qualifying the term globalization. The protesters are indeed united against the present form of capitalist globalization, but the vast majority of them are not against globalizing currents and forces as such; they are not isolationist, separatist or even nationalist.
The protests themselves have become global movements, and one of their clearest objectives is the democratization of globalizing processes. This should not be called an antiglobalization movement. It is pro-globalization, or rather it is an alternative globalization movement -- one that seeks to eliminate inequalities between rich and poor and between the powerful and the powerless, and to expand the possibilities of self-determination.
If we understand one thing from the multitude of voices in Genoa this weekend, it should be that a different and better future is possible. When one recognizes the tremendous power of the international and supranational forces that support our present form of globalization, one could conclude that resistance is futile.
But those in the streets today are foolish enough to believe that alternatives are possible -- that "inevitability" should not be the last word in politics. A new species of political activist has been born with a spirit that is reminiscent of the paradoxical idealism of the 1960's -- the realistic course of action today is to demand what is seemingly impossible, that is, something new.
Protest movements are an integral part of a democratic society, and for this reason alone we should all thank those in the streets in Genoa, whether we agree with them or not. Protest movements, however, do not provide a practical blueprint for how to solve problems, and we should not expect that of them. They seek rather to transform the public agenda by creating political desires for a better future.
We see seeds of that future already in the sea of faces that stretches from the streets of Seattle to those of Genoa. One of the most remarkable characteristics of these movements is their diversity: trade unionists together with ecologists together with priests and communists. We are beginning to see a multitude emerge that is not defined by any single identity, but can discover commonality in its multiplicity.
These movements are what link Genoa this weekend most clearly to the openness -- toward new kinds of exchange and new ideas -- of its Renaissance past.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); RIOTS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (53%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) HARDT, MICHAEL; NEGRI, ANTONIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



494 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Buyouts 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "$25,000? I'm Leaving Today," by John Tierney (Big City column, July 17): 
 Most affordable rent-stabilized apartments are held by those who live and work in the city and are not looking to cash in and move to the suburbs. 
Their jobs, families and roots are here, and they are at the limit of what they can afford, so moving makes no sense socially, geographically or economically.
Low-income tenants looking for a buyout do so because they have no other option. They may lack the resources to challenge an eviction proceeding. Inadequately insured, they might face huge medical bills and need a quick infusion of cash. They won't be moving up in the housing food chain to make room for others at a low-rent level. Instead, they compete for even cheaper housing. 
This buyout scheme based on myth cannot result in a glut of vacant apartments driving down prices when there is already an exponential supply-and-demand disparity.

CRAIG ACORN
New York, July 18, 2001

The writer is staff attorney, Urban Justice Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); EVICTION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: ACORN, CRAIG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



495 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: New York Needs a Place to Live 

BYLINE:  By Roland Lewis; Roland Lewis is executive director of Habitat for Humanity-New York City.

 BODY:
Times are still good in New York City, after a long boom coupled with the benefits of a drop in crime. The next mayor, rightly, is expected to focus on fixing the schools. But another slow-motion crisis threatens to undermine the city's progress.
 The growing shortage of affordable housing is threatening to make the city once again unlivable. A year from now, we can expect the housing crisis to be at the center of New York's politics. Consider it the sleeper issue. 
 The mayoral candidates seem aware of the brewing problem. At candidate forums and in position papers, they have begun to address the housing issue, recognizing that the way the winner deals with it is likely to determine his legacy.
This focus on housing for all New Yorkers can't come soon enough, because the problems in finding a decent place to live have never been more severe for New Yorkers. During the last decade, New York City added 456,000 new residents but built only 82,000 new units of housing. The rental vacancy rate in the city has dropped sharply, to just over 3 percent -- its lowest point in a decade.
There are now 150,000 doubled-up renter households in the five boroughs. Half a million New Yorkers now spend more than 50 percent of their incomes on housing. There is an eight-year waiting list to live in New York City public housing. And there are still 27,000 New Yorkers who will live in shelters on any given night.
This housing crunch affects us all in ways we sometimes don't even see. A recent public opinion poll found that 45 percent of New Yorkers had "seriously considered moving out of the city" because of its high housing costs. The high price of housing is one reason new teachers have been so hard to recruit and retain in city schools. If we do not find a way to provide decent, affordable housing, efforts to improve education, health and law enforcement could be undermined.
But just as we found ways to bring down crime and expand economic development in distressed communities, we can build and keep affordable housing if government acts in tandem with the private sector. The new mayor should double the level of current city spending, now at about $500 million a year. Additional city subsidies could induce new private investors to create below-market-rate housing. Religious and civic groups can do much to help guide this kind of development, but a substantial government investment will be crucial.
Government has acted successfully before. The city housing program begun under Mayor Ed Koch built tens of thousands of homes and revitalized whole neighborhoods. The program created under New York State's Mitchell-Lama legislation produced 125,000 middle-income apartments from the 1950's to the 1970's. The new mayor must persuade the state and federal governments to increase their share of housing costs, and he must convince New York City's business community that an expanded investment in housing is economically smart as well as morally right.
The good news is that there is tremendous expertise in our city to build the needed homes; neighborhood-based community development corporations, government agencies and private developers all have the right experience. These groups and many others from the business, religious and nonprofit worlds -- more than 150 organizations -- have come together to form a new coalition called Housing First! This coalition is seeking a $10 billion investment in housing in New York City over the next 10 years that would create 100,000 new homes and preserve an additional 85,000 homes.
Each of the four major Democratic mayoral candidates -- Fernando Ferrer, Mark Green, Alan Hevesi and Peter Vallone -- has proposed his own multiyear, multibillion-dollar housing program. The Republican Michael Bloomberg, the political newcomer in the race, has also discussed housing as a central issue.
For candidates, talking about the need is easy. But voters will have to press them for answers to hard questions: Where will the housing go? How much city-owned land will be dedicated to housing? What types of housing and what services should be provided to the homeless? How should zoning laws be changed to encourage more housing development?
The legacy of the next mayor is likely to depend on how well he focuses on these issues. The housing crisis will drive the city's future and will have an increasing impact on education, crime and poverty. But if the next mayor acts aggressively and imaginatively, it is possible for New York to achieve real gains in housing, just as it has against crime. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); RELIGION (50%) HOUSING; SHORTAGES; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (59%) HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 

PERSON: LEWIS, ROLAND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



496 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Forecasting Index Registers Third Consecutive Increase 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators rose for a third month in June, a private research firm said today, suggesting growth may accelerate by the end of the year.
 A gain in consumer confidence last month helped push the Conference Board's gauge up 0.3 percent after a 0.4 percent increase in May. 
 The rise reinforces the view "that the news is no longer unrelentingly negative," said David Orr, chief economist at First Union in Char lotte, N.C. "An 'all clear' for the economy isn't guaranteed, but it adds to the tentative evidence of a recovery." 
In noting the improvement, the New York-based research group also said the economic outlook "remains fragile." Reports on trade, initial jobless claims and Philadelphia-area manufacturing confirm what Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress on Wednesday: stronger growth is more likely, not a given.
The trade deficit narrowed 11.4 percent in May, to a 16-month low of $28.3 billion, as imports of consumer goods and business equipment sank, the Commerce Department reported today. While that suggests falling demand, it also means that foreign producers rather than American factories have absorbed some effects of the decline. Exports rose, led by pharmaceuticals and other consumer goods.
First-time claims for unemployment insurance fell 35,000 last week, to 414,000, as automakers recalled workers from seasonal shutdowns. At the same time, the number of workers continuing to receive jobless benefits climbed to 3.11 million in the first full week of July, the most since October 1992.
The Philadelphia Fed's index of manufacturing in Delaware, eastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey declined more than expected this month, dropping to minus 12.2 from minus 3.7 in June. Measures of new orders and employment nonetheless improved.
The trade report also suggests second-quarter growth may look stronger than previously forecast. Because of the way the government calculates gross domestic product, the drop in imports also means G.D.P. probably rose during the second quarter at a 1 percent annual rate, rather than the 0.5 percent pace predicted in earlier forecasts, analysts said.
The economy had slowed to a 1.2 percent rate in the first quarter, compared with 5 percent growth in all of 2000.
The indicators that make up the Conference Board's leading index were mixed as well, with 5 of 10 pointing to strength, including an increase in the supply of money in the economy and slower delivery times, which suggests companies have more orders to fill. Declining stock prices and falling orders for business equipment held down the index.
"There appears to be enough economic demand to end the slide in industrial production, though no strong rebound appears in sight," said Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators"Chart shows index of 10 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity; 1996=100 since Jan. 2000. Monthly ChangeJune: +0.3%May: +0.4April: +0.2 (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



497 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Two Bright Spots in Technology Give Lift to Share Prices

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stock prices rose modestly yesterday, led by the technology sector, after Nokia reported better-than-expected earnings and Dell Computer stood by its profit forecast.
 A surge in Microsoft provided part of the gains in the three leading indexes, as investors anticipated a favorable earnings report. But after the stock market closed, Microsoft warned that its sales and profits in its next quarter would be lower than previous forecasts. 
 "It continues to be an earnings-driven environment," said David Sowerby, a market strategist at Loomis, Sayles & Company. "The only analogy I can give is when you're in the middle of a profit recession, it's very similar to the market suffering from a bad case of indigestion and some days your gut has no appetite for the market. At least today, the market ulcer is on hold."
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 30.42 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 2,046.59. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 40.17 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,610. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 7.31 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,215.02.
Nokia rose $2.51, to $19.51, after the cell phone maker reported second-quarter earnings of 15 cents a share; analysts had expected 13 cents. Nokia, based in Finland, said its third-quarter results would be weaker and declined to offer guidance on the fourth quarter, but it said the industry should rebound next year. 
Other telecommunications equipment companies also rose. Ericsson gained 11 cents, to $4.71; Motorola rose $1.56, to $19.14; and Qualcomm jumped $3.15, to $65.70.
Dell rose $1.18, to $28.38, after the computer maker reaffirmed its previous forecast for second-quarter revenue of $7.6 billion and earnings of about 16 cents a share. Dell expects to take a $700 million charge in the second quarter for job cuts and other items.
Microsoft gained $2, to $72.57. After regular trading ended, the company reported revenue that met Wall Street's expectations for the current quarter. But it also projected earnings of 39 to 40 cents a share in its next quarter and revenue of $6 billion to $6.2 billion; analysts had been projecting earnings of 45 cents a share and revenue of $6.27 billion. Microsoft fell as low as $69.50 in after-hours trading.
Semiconductor stocks were among the day's notable gainers, with the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index rising 27.42 points, or 4.9 percent, to 590.19. Broadcom rose $3.40, to $42.40, after the maker of chips for communications equipment, projected a possible rebound toward the end of the year, although it posted a loss that was in line with analysts' estimates.Cypress Semiconductor, a computer chip maker, rose $2.24, to $23.85, after saying it would cut 650 jobs, or 19 percent of its work force. It also posted a second-quarter loss. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices declined yesterday on concern that stronger economic growth will limit the number of Federal Reserve interest rate cuts in coming months.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to a price of 99 7/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.10 percent from 5.09 percent on Wednesday. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 4/32, to 97 26/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.53 percent from 5.52 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (57%); QUALCOMM INC (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%); BROADCOM CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



498 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Genoa's Protesters March Peacefully, but Vow Stronger Action 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 19 

 BODY:
On the eve of a meeting of leaders of the industrialized nations, tens of thousands of people marched peacefully today through Genoa to protest the meeting as a symbol of globalization, capitalist exploitation, environmental insensitivity and a host of contemporary ills.
 Earlier in the day, leaders of the more radical protest groups announced that they had chosen Friday to tear down the "red zone," a high-security area in the city center where the leaders will meet, and "all red zones that limit our lives." The statement was tantamount to a declaration of war on the many police units that have blanketed the city in preparation for the meeting, which begins on Friday. 
 Various political, social and religious organizations had announced that they would convene in Genoa to use the occasion of a three-day summit meeting to voice their protest. 
In a snaking procession resembling at times a carnival parade, crowds of people -- young and old, neatly and outrageously dressed or hardly clad at all -- marched through the streets, dancing and singing to the accompaniment of bands, loudspeaker trucks and marchers with musical instruments.
It was the usual mixed group that has taken to protesting whenever leaders of governments or financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund come together. The first such demonstration was two years ago in Seattle. Today, the Genoa protesters were closely kept in line by hundreds of riot policemen and armored vans.
"We're here because we don't like the present model of development," said Anna Lazarotti, a Genoa homemaker and mother of one, who came with about 40 members of her women's club, the Baghdad Cafe. "It does not respect the rights of individuals, but the rights of money."
Mrs. Lazarotti's group, dressed as for a shopping trip, was surrounded by elderly trade unionists, environmentalists from Green parties in various European countries, unemployed workers from France, fundamentalist Catholic groups, and anarchists from across Europe with colorfully died hair, metal studs in their bodies and uniform black dress.
Many plainclothes police officers, some disguised as photojournalists, others wearing red arm bands and Kurd independence T-shirts, mingled in the march, and kept a close eye on protesters.
Students from Genoa University held aloft a washline fluttering with men's and women's underwear to protest an appeal to the Genoese by the recently elected Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, to refrain from hanging wash across the city's narrow lanes, a venerable local custom, to avoid esthetic offense. A banner beneath the undergarments read, "Silvio -- How Do You Like the Drawers?"
The leaders of the industrialized nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- meet on Friday. They will be joined by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Saturday.
A general playfulness reigned along with the kind of mocking of modern homogenization that has come to characterize such protests. The organizers said that about 50,000 had marched; the police estimated the crowds at 30,000.
The streets were lined with onlookers, though not everyone agreed with the marchers.
Piero Lanzetta, 44, a building superintendent, said: "Globalization is neither good nor bad. It's like a river that can be dangerous or useful depending on how people control and use it."
The police have been particularly nervous because of the explosion this week in northern Italy of several letter bombs in which postal officials and others suffered minor injuries. In Ancona, on Italy's Adriatic coast, the Italian police blocked 150 Greek youths who had arrived by boat from entering the country. The Italian authorities said that about 850 people have been refused entry in recent days. 
This morning, the red zone was declared the symbolic goal of demonstrators who announced an unauthorized march for Friday that the police say could turn violent. Francesco Caruso, the spokesman for an organization called Network No-Global, said that at least 10,000 marchers were expected on Friday, "seeking to smash down the wall of shame," a reference to the steel mesh gates that block streets to the red zone.
The police officials closed Genoa airport today for the duration of the meeting. Mr. Berlusconi arrived from Rome tonight and met with trade union leaders in Genoa on the wharf where staff members and media will work. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan was also expected tonight, while other leaders arrive on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched yesterday in Genoa. The Italian government is sending in more than 10,000 extra security personnel. (Agence France-Presse); Shipping containers set up in "red zone" in Genoa to thwart stone throwing. Some groups announced plans to dismantle the security zone. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); MUSIC (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); RELIGION (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); MEN'S CLOTHING (60%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ENVIRONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (54%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) ITALY (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%) GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



499 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Panel Argues for Changing Social Security 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
A commission appointed by the Bush administration set out a rationale today for overhauling Social Security, describing the current system as plagued by financial problems and a crisis of confidence.
 Stating that the program, which was established 66 years ago in the New Deal, "has itself reached retirement age," the commission's staff and its co-chairmen said demographic and economic pressures left no choice but to reshape Social Security to allow workers to invest in stocks and bonds -- the sooner the better. 
 The commission was established by President Bush to develop a detailed plan for enacting his campaign promise to add private investment accounts to Social Security.
Today's report was intended not to make specific proposals -- it referred only obliquely to private accounts -- but rather to make a case for why one of the most popular and successful government programs should undergo the most sweeping changes in its history. 
Democrats dismissed the document as alarmist, and said they intended to step up efforts to show that Mr. Bush's approach would create more problems than it would solve and would ultimately leave many older people less well off.
The report reviewed statistics and projections showing that, if no changes are made, Social Security would run short of money needed to pay promised benefits within the next few decades. 
It sought to show that doing nothing would inevitably lead to big tax increases, deep benefit cuts, a sharp rise in the national debt or some combination of all those things. 
It characterized the current system as often unfair to members of minorities, who because of shorter lifespans tend to receive less in benefits, and to women, who tend to spend less time in the work force than men but live longer.
And the report laid out a vague but positive vision of modernizing Social Security for a world in which people are comfortable with investing and eager for the assurance that would come with controlling and owning a piece of their government-sponsored retirement benefit.
"Though the demographic changes since 1935 will soon strain our retirement system, other changes offer the opportunity to improve it," said the draft report, which will be discussed and possibly amended by the full commission when it meets on Tuesday. 
"We better understand the power of markets than Americans did during the shock of the Great Depression," it said. "We feel more urgently the importance of extending the benefits of personal asset ownership. And we are more strongly committed to equitable treatment of all our nation's people, regardless of race, income or gender."
Democrats in Congress and other opponents of Mr. Bush's approach said the report overstated the threat to Social Security and ignored the drawbacks of private accounts.
"The only purpose of this report is to frighten the American public and to have the public think the system is about to fall apart," said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California. "It's intended to make younger people think they're not going to get their benefits, so they should keep their money and invest it in a private account."
John Rother, legislative director of AARP, the advocacy group for older people, said the report portrayed the situation "in the most alarmist way possible." It will further polarize the political debate over how to shore up the system, Mr. Rother said.
"This may actually move us further away from a solution rather than toward a solution because it will be perceived as extremist," he said.
The commission is expected to spend the summer and fall developing detailed recommendations for Mr. Bush about private accounts as well as possible benefit cuts that might be needed to restore the retirement system's long-term health. The president has signaled that he would like Congress to begin serious work on the issue next year.
Before doing so, however, the White House has made clear that it needs to convince voters of the urgency of addressing Social Security, an issue that has long carried extreme political peril, especially for Republicans. It is also facing reluctance from Republicans in Congress, who see little benefit in taking up the issue next year, during a mid-term election campaign.
"The system is broken," the commission's co-chairmen, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the former Democratic senator from New York, and Richard D. Parsons, the vice chairman of AOL Time Warner, wrote in a preface to the report. "Unless we move boldly and quickly, the promise of Social Security to retirees cannot be met without eventual resort to benefit cuts, tax increases or massive borrowing. The time to act is now."
The fate of Mr. Bush's plan is likely to hinge in the end on broad ideological differences, between those who see Social Security as a guaranteed government benefit against poverty in old age and those who see a greater role for market forces and individual responsibility in preparing for retirement.
But for now much of the argument revolves around technical issues, including the definition of when Social Security will first run into trouble.
The Bush commission's report said the key date was 2016. That is when payroll tax revenues flowing into Social Security from workers and employers will fall short of benefit payments for the first time. At that point, the system will begin relying in part on interest payments from its vast holdings of government bonds -- the Social Security trust fund.
But the bonds and the interest on them are nothing more than commitments by the government to help pay future benefits out of general tax revenues, meaning that Social Security will begin to impinge on the rest of the budget.
Opponents of Mr. Bush's approach said it was wrong to look at Social Security as starting to run into trouble in 2016. The government bonds held by the system, they said, are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government, and are considered by investors to be the safest investment in the world.
The system will not have to begin redeeming bonds to pay benefits until 2025. Democrats said there was no reason to suggest that Social Security would be short of money before 2038, when the system will have redeemed all the bonds and will be able to pay only about 72 percent of promised benefits out of payroll tax revenue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); BONDS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); TAX LAW (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; STOCKS AND BONDS 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



500 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Losses at Delta and Northwest; Southwest Has a Profit 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Hurt by a slump in business travel, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines reported quarterly losses yesterday and joined other major carriers in announcing cutbacks.
 Southwest Airlines, meanwhile, the country's largest low-fare carrier, posted a solid profit yesterday and said that it planned to stick with its aggressive expansion plans. 
 Northwest went further than any of the major airlines by announcing plans to eliminate 1,500 jobs, including 500 layoffs; close two reservation centers and a flight attendant base; and cancel some international flights. The airline said the cuts would save it $135 million on top of $209 million worth of cuts, including 500 jobs, announced earlier this year. 
Delta said that it planned to save $425 million this year by retiring nine Boeing 737 jets and replacing larger aircraft with regional jets on some routes. But like United Airlines and American Airlines, its two larger competitors, Delta said that it still expected to lose money this quarter and had imposed a hiring freeze rather than announcing layoffs.
In addition to the steep decline in last-minute business travel this year, which has cut into revenues, costs for the major airlines have risen from higher fuel prices and new, more expensive labor contracts. As a result, the industry posted a loss during the second quarter, traditionally its strongest, for only the third time in the last 30 years, said Samuel C. Buttrick, an airline analyst with UBS Warburg in New York.
Still, the losses at Northwest and Delta were smaller than analysts had expected. Northwest lost $55 million, or 65 cents a share. That was in contrast to a profit of $115 million, or 1.26 a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue fell 5.9 percent, to $2.72 billion from $2.89 billion a year earlier. The average estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call was for a loss of 74 cents a share.
A new management team took over at Northwest earlier this year, which may explain why it is cutting more aggressively than its larger competitors, analysts said. The airline said that it would close reservations centers in Garden City, N.Y., and in Hawaii. The 300 employees will be offered jobs at one of Northwest's seven other centers.
Northwest also said that it would close a flight attendant base in Chicago and eliminate flights linking Osaka, Japan, and Seattle; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Los Angeles; and Manila. Nonstop flights between Detroit and Rome will be suspended over the winter.
Delta lost $90 million, or 76 cents a share, during the quarter. That was in contrast to a profit of $460 million, or $3.51 a share, during the period last year. Revenue declined 16 percent, to $3.78 billion from $4.47 billion a year earlier. Excluding several one-time items, Delta's loss was $123 million, or $1.03 a share, less than it had predicted last month and less than most analysts had expected.
Leo F. Mullin, the chief executive of Delta, told analysts that a threatened strike by its pilots and the 89-day strike at Comair, one of its regional airlines, were responsible for two-thirds of its decline in revenue, while the weak economy was responsible for the remainder. Without the Comair strike, which cost about $195 million during the quarter, Delta would have been profitable, he said.
Southwest continued to show why it has a market value larger than that of American, United and Delta combined. It matched Wall Street's expectations, earning $175.6 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with a record profit of $190.6 million, or 24 cents a share, in the second quarter of 2000. Revenue rose 6.4 percent, to $1.55 billion from $1.46 billion.
Rather than retrenching like the major carriers, Southwest, which offers direct service between cities instead of transferring passengers at hub airports, is adding aircraft, employees and new routes. It expects to be solidly profitable this quarter, according to Gary C. Kelly, its chief financial officer.
Mr. Kelly added that Southwest had experienced only a slight softening in corporate travel. "Business travelers are cutting out the $3,000 fares," he said. "They are much more likely to pay $79 to travel on Southwest Airlines." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY REPORTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC); FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); BOEING CO (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES; SOUTHWEST AIRLINES; BOEING CO 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (96%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (76%); OSAKA, JAPAN (76%) HAWAII, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



501 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Why People Love to Hate Publicists

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
THE Mayans had their ways of dealing with publicists, as you may have seen in an ancient illustration published on Tuesday in these pages. It showed a flack, once the powerful issuer of royal press releases but now obviously out of favor, who was in the process of having his fingernails torn off. 
 Are there any lessons here for the Lizzie Grubman case? 
 I'm not suggesting we adopt that specific punishment for publicists to the stars. I realize that the warm wax wrap manicure with fruit peel costs $70 at Bliss spa. Nor am I specifically advocating the other punishments listed in a new scholarly paper on the fate of Mayan scribes who fell into the hands of an enemy king. 
Those Mayan former spokesmen, who had inscribed monuments celebrating the accomplishments of their royal client, were singled out for humiliation as part of a rival king's public relations campaign. The ceremony was like the launch party for a new movie or restaurant, the kind that Ms. Grubman threw, with several important differences.
The publicists were stripped and bound, then presented prostrate and half nude before their conquerors. In front of the era's gossip columnists and paparazzi, the conquerors proceeded to break the scribes' fingers, slice their skin, cut off their heads and extract their hearts.
That's a bit extreme for even the most arrogant celebrity handler today, although the symbolism of the broken writing fingers might be adapted. Perhaps the "send" button could be disabled on the cell phone of a publicist who announces that she "did not intentionally leave the scene of the accident." We might want to close down the Web site of a party planner who runs into 16 people with her S.U.V. and then asks the press to "please respect my family's privacy."
But those would be paltry penalties compared with the criminal charges, lawsuits and media frenzy faced by Ms. Grubman. The furor has been set off by her behavior and by suspicion that she got special treatment from the police, but the public anger has been exacerbated because of who she is. There's something about publicists that inspires extra animosity.
Why do they get so much abuse on the front pages of the tabloids and the walls of Mayan palaces? Why do professional image-makers today have the same dismal image as their colleagues 1,300 years ago? You could theorize that publicists, like journalists, are doomed to perpetual disdain, but there's a more interesting explanation.
Mayan society shared a quality with modern America. Mayan rulers, like the rulers of New York's business and cultural worlds, did not have the political power to coerce the provinces into submission. "Kings lacked coercive military and economic authority," writes Kevin J. Johnston in the current issue of the journal Antiquity, in an article titled "Broken Fingers: Classic Maya Scribe Capture and Polity Consolidation."
DR. JOHNSTON, an archaeologist at Ohio State University, notes that Mayan kings had to compete against nearby rivals because the Mayans lived in a loosely organized society consisting of about 50 decentralized political units. To build public loyalty to his brand, a ruler employed publicists to herald his achievements and links to ancient kings and deities -- the equivalent of getting celebrities to show up at the launch party.
"Kings exercised authorities primarily through ritual display rather than administrative domination," Dr. Johnston writes. "A king's loss of capacity to produce public monuments because of scribe capture was a blow to his persuasive power, authority and presence." It was like a company no longer able to afford an advertising campaign, or a celebrity no longer being able to afford a contract with Howard J. Rubenstein.
It is probably safe to assume that Mayan kings hated paying their scribes as much as today's celebrities resent the bills they get. Why was a flack necessary? Why couldn't the public simply appreciate the wonderful qualities of the enlightened king? A Mayan ruler must have sounded like today's whiny movie stars and authors when the scribes asked him to promote a new monument in the hinterland.
The chattering classes of the Mayan era probably dismissed the monument-opening party as a pointless exercise even as they fought for invitations and stood outside watching. Like their ruler, they professed disdain for publicists and insisted that hype didn't matter. But it did, and that was what really bothered everyone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BONE FRACTURES (88%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); LITIGATION (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; MAYANS; ASSAULTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

ORGANIZATION: CONSCIENCE POINT INN (SOUTHAMPTON, NY) 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; GRUBMAN, LIZZIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%) SOUTHAMPTON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



502 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Sun Posts Quarterly Loss For First Time in 12 Years

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 19 

 BODY:
Sun Microsystems posted its first quarterly loss in more than a decade yesterday, as orders from customers in Europe and Japan continued to dwindle.
 Sun, a computer and software maker, reported a loss of $88 million, or 3 cents a share, for its fourth quarter, ended June 30. Michael E. Lehman, the chief financial officer, said the loss was Sun's first since its fourth quarter in 1989. 
 Still, Sun beat Wall Street's lowered expectations by a penny a share. With special items like acquisition expenses excluded, Sun said it earned a profit of $134 million, or 4 cents a share. Earnings declined sharply from the period last year, when Sun earned $720 million, or 21 cents a share.
Revenue in the United States, where Sun sells nearly half of its products, rose 14 percent in the quarter, the first growth this year. Analysts said Sun's American market typically improved 20 percent between the third and fourth quarters. Sales in Europe and Japan fell 17 percent and 27 percent, respectively.
Over all, revenue was $4 billion, down 2 percent from the previous quarter and 20 percent from the year-earlier period, when Sun earned $5 billion.
Although they were pressed by analysts during a conference call, Sun's executives would not say whether they expected the economy or the company's business to recover soon. In an unusual move, the company declined to offer a detailed forecast for the current quarter. "We don't draw conclusions," said Scott G. McNealy, Sun's chairman and chief executive. "We ship computers."
Mr. Lehman said he expected Sun to earn at least $3.7 billion, or enough to break even, for its first quarter. Revenue of $3.7 billion would represent a 7.5 percent decline from the fourth quarter, common for Sun at this time of year.
Sun, a maker of servers, equipment and software for computer networking and storage systems, has tough numbers to live up to. The company reported unusually rapid growth in the first half of the fiscal year that just ended, increasing revenue 60 percent year over year in the first quarter alone, largely on the strength of deals with telecommunications and Internet service providers. Those customers have since cut back sharply on spending as the markets turned down.
"They portrayed a cautious, uncertain tone, but they didn't portray a negative tone," said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, after the conference call with Sun. "Investors will probably shrug and say we need to wait and see to get a more definitive perspective from Sun."
Sun said its transition to its new UltraSparc III line of servers had improved after failing to meet demand earlier in the year. The company said it expected to release a high-end model in the late summer or early fall.
"That's what we're focused on, the things we can control," Mr. Lehman said in an interview.
Sun will increase its investment in research and development 17 percent this year, a decision Mr. McNealy said he expected to pay off in several years.
"We've taken a haircut on earnings, no question about that," Mr. McNealy said. "But we are protecting what we think to the long-term shareholders is what matters, and that is the long-term assets." 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about financial results at Sun Microsystems misstated the company's earnings for the quarter ended June 2000. Excluding special items, the figure was $717 million, not $720 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); NETWORK SERVERS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (62%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (62%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (62%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (59%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (59%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (59%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (59%) SIC7378 COMPUTER MAINTENANCE & REPAIR; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



503 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Agency Asks Firestone To Recall Additional Tires
The Transportation Department said it had asked Bridgestone/Firestone to recall additional tires but the company insisted that its tires were safe and that it would state its case at a public hearing and in court.
 As a result, the government said it would begin a proceeding to start a mandatory recall, only the 10th time since 1966 that it has done so. Page C4. 

Austerity Plan Provokes Strikes
Several labor confederations began a crippling 24-hour nationwide strike to protest the Argentine government's new austerity plan, which cuts public wages and pensions up to 13 percent to avert a default on foreign debt payments. It was the sixth labor action since President Fernando de la Rua took office in December 1999, and appeared to be one of the most effective. A8.

Music-Swapping Services Thrive
Figures to be released today show that a precipitous drop in Napster's traffic the last several weeks has been paralleled by explosive growth in the less centralized music-swapping services welcoming millions of Napster refugees. The new generation of services are more numerous and harder for the record industry to police. A1.

Mounting Job Losses in New York
New York State's economy, which had been bucking the national economic slump, has slammed into a brick wall, losing jobs in the private sector in May and June, the first such back-to-back job declines since 1995. Employment also fell in New York City. A1.

F.A.A. Seeks to Fine American
The Federal Aviation Administration said it would seek to fine American Airlines $285,000 for violating regulations mandating how many hours pilots can work without rest. American has 30 days to negotiate a compromise, seek arbitration or take legal action. C4.

Panel Finds Social Security Faults
A commission appointed by the Bush administration set out a rationale for overhauling Social Security, describing the current system as plagued by financial problems and a crisis of confidence. It said demographic and economic pressures left no choice but to reshape Social Security to allow workers to invest in stocks and bonds, the sooner the better. A14.

Trade Deficit Narrowed 11% in May
The trade deficit narrowed 11 percent in May, to a 16-month low of $28.3 billion, as imports of consumer goods and business equipment sank, to $116.1 billion, the Commerce Department reported. While that suggests falling demand, it also means that foreign producers rather than American factories have absorbed some effects of the decline. Exports rose to $87.7 billion, led by pharmaceuticals and other consumer goods. C4.

Ad Agency Companies Are in Deals
Havas Advertising offered to acquire the Tempus Group, one of the few remaining independent media agency companies, for $:425 million ($603 million). But the deal may be challenged by the WPP Group, which has been slowly increasing its minority stake in Tempus. Separately, the Publicis Groupe agreed with the Cordiant Communications Group to form a joint venture media agency company. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.

Technology Lifts Stocks Modestly
Nokia and Dell Computer were among the technology companies that helped lift stocks higher. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index rose 30.42 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 2,046.59. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 40.17 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,610. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 7.31 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,215.02. C6.

Beck Brewery Is Up for Sale
More than 125 years after their family began brewing beer, the owners of Beck's, Germany's top-selling export brew, said the company was for sale. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows Balance of Trade since Dec. 2000. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,610.00 up 40.17Nasdaq composite -- 2,046.59 up 30.4210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.10% up 0.01The euro -- $0.8713 down 0.0011The dollar -- 123.35 yen down 0.61

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); STRIKES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); PRODUCT RECALLS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (69%); AIRLINES (69%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); WPP PLC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (96%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



504 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: EchoStar Earns $2.25 Million 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: LITTLETON, Colo., July 19 

 BODY:
EchoStar Communications, the television satellite broadcaster, said today that it had an unexpected second-quarter profit, though it also warned that it might add fewer subscribers this year than previously forecast. 
 EchoStar earned $2.25 million, or less than a penny a share, in contrast to a loss of $132.9 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier. 
Sales rose 50 percent, to $966.3 million from $646.1 million. The quarterly profit was the company's first since going public in 1995. 
 Analysts had expected a loss of 10 cents a share for the quarter.
The company also said that it had ended talks about a possible merger with its rival DirecTV, which is owned by the Hughes Electronics unit of General Motors. 
The company added 350,000 customers for its Dish satellite service in the quarter, twice as many as DirecTV, which reduced its subscriber growth forecasts on Monday. EchoStar said it would sign up as many as 1.75 million customers this year, fewer than earlier forecasts for as many as 2 million. Charles W. Ergen, the chief executive of EchoStar, cited the slowing economy.
EchoStar had 6.07 million customers as of June 30, 41 percent more than at the same time last year. Hughes has 10 million customers. 
EchoStar had a second-quarter profit because some expenses declined when the company started leasing satellite dishes to customers instead of giving them away, analysts and investors said. 
Matthew Harrigan, an analyst at Janco Partners in Denver, said: "They've done an exemplary job of growing in a difficult economic environment. In the quarter, they captured 66 percent of new satellite customers." 
Shares of EchoStar fell 99 cents, to $28.98. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MERGERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (52%) COMPANY REPORTS; TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SATELLITES 

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (98%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORP; DIRECTV INC; HUGHES ELECTRONICS 

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (98%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES ERGEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (51%) COLORADO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



505 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: INDUSTRIAL NATIONS CALL FOR MONITORS FOR MIDEAST TRUCE 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: ROME, July 19 

 BODY:
Responding to the increasing fury of violence in the Middle East, the foreign ministers of the major industrialized countries told the Israelis and Palestinians today that they should agree to "third party" monitors as the most assured way of halting the deteriorating situation. 
 In a fresh outburst of violence in the Middle East today, Israeli gunmen near Hebron were reported to have shot and killed three members of a Palestinian family, including an infant, and to have wounded several other people. Page A3. 
 Given Israel's frequent objections to any plan for outside monitors, the decision by the ministers, including Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, was seen as reflecting frustration with the disintegrating cease-fire as well as an effort to take a more active role in encouraging peace.
Bush administration policy on peace in the Middle East has evolved significantly in the president's six months in office, moving from a hands-off approach to limited involvement, to brokering the current cease-fire five weeks ago. Just over two weeks ago, on a trip to Jerusalem, Secretary Powell pushed to the next step, saying observers would be needed to monitor a cease-fire between Israelis and Palestinians, if the two sides would agree to them, and setting a schedule for moving toward political talks. 
The wording of the foreign ministers' statement on the monitors, which was attached as an appendix to their official communique, was checked by the American delegation with the State Department's senior Middle East experts in Washington, apparently in an effort to ensure that it did not transgress the policies of the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon. 
After a news conference at which the communique was discussed, a senior administration official said the United States was satisfied with the Middle East statement because a reference to "third party" did not imply that either the United Nations or the European Union would provide the monitors.
Israel has consistently objected to "international" monitors but has expressed more willingness to entertain "third party" monitors, the official said. The third-party monitors that Israel would feel most comfortable with would be from the United States, the official added. 
But Israeli officials rejected the suggestion, saying that creating a monitoring team would be pointless and even dangerous in the absence of a working cease-fire.
"We strongly believe that what we need is not observers but observance, meaning observance on the part of the Palestinians to observe the cease-fire," said Avi Pazner, a government spokesman.
Dore Gold, an adviser to Mr. Sharon, said the Palestinian Authority chairman, Yasir Arafat, would view an observer force as a victory. "There's a danger that Arafat will perceive that his policy of violence has been rewarded, and it will become more difficult to dissuade him from violence in the future," Mr. Gold said.
The Israelis were pleased that the Group of 8 ministers had said Israel and the Palestinians should both agree on this matter. Israel is not automatically opposed to observers, Mr. Pazner said, noting that there are monitors from several countries in Sinai, to help maintain the Egyptian-Israeli peace, and a United Nations force on the Golan Heights, observing a 28-year-old cease-fire between Israel and Syria.
But in a situation as volatile as the present one, "it is dangerous, and we think it will make matters worse," he said.
"It is obvious," Mr. Pazner said, "that in the present situation -- I stress, the present situation -- there is no agreement on the part of Israel to observers."
Nabil Shaath, the Palestinian Authority's minister of planning and international cooperation, welcomed the G-8 ministers' call, saying, "Any presence of a third party on the ground is a positive step."
"What is demanded now is that these countries should commit Israel to accept the presence of a third party," Mr. Shaath said. "This was a Palestinian demand for a long time. Now it's gaining international support."
Diplomats said the most spirited exchanges among the foreign ministers, who discussed issues from globalization to arms control, occurred over the Middle East. At the heart of the discussion was how far to go in instructing the two sides to accept monitors as a way to ensure the carrying out of the Mitchell Report, which maps a path to negotiation between Israelis and Palestinians.
While the call for monitors was quite strong, it was not as strong as some countries would have liked. "The trick is to persuade the Israelis that monitors are useful," a European diplomat said. 
All the foreign ministers, including Igor S. Ivanov of Russia, agreed that the report, written by the former Senator George Mitchell, must form the basis of trying to move the Israelis and Palestinians beyond violence and toward political talks. The plan calls for an end to the violence, followed by a period in which both sides would take steps to rebuild trust between them. The final phase would be a return to peace negotiations.
The ministers' meeting today touched on many of the themes that their leaders will discuss when they gather for their summit meeting in Genoa on Friday. In what amounted to a preview of the Genoa meeting, where President Bush will be making his G-8 debut, the ministers discussed arms control but sidestepped the specific issue of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. They agreed instead in their communique to place "great importance on the existing regimes of multilateral treaties." 
The ABM treaty, which the Bush administration has said it may withdraw from, is a bilateral agreement between Russia and the United States. And by referring to "existing regimes," the ministers did not endorse the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, a multilateral treaty that is not yet in existence because of the failure of the United States, among others, to ratify it. 
At today's session on arms control, diplomats said Canada was the only nations to speak out against the Bush administration's plans on missile defense. In response, Secretary Powell gave what several diplomats called an "encouraging" reply, reassuring the closed-door conference that Washington would continue to consult with its allies and Russia on its intentions about the ABM treaty. 
Over all, the meeting was a fairly low-key affair. In some respects, the Bush administration looked on the G-8 -- both the foreign ministers' meeting and the grander event in Genoa -- as one more diplomatic chore, a more onerous task than a useful thrashing-out of burning economic issues, the original agenda nearly three decades ago when the meetings began with a smaller group. Earlier this month, in the middle of its final preparation for the G-8, a member of the Bush foreign policy team said the administration was "scraping around" for issues to discuss.
In an effort to breathe new life into the summit meeting, the so-called Shadow Group of Eight, a collection of foreign policy luminaries, including Henry A. Kissinger and Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, called on the G-8 nations to include less-developed countries like China, Brazil and India in their meetings. Embracing those regional powers is seen as helping answer the concerns of protesters worried about the ill effects of globalization as well as promoting progress in fighting poverty and expanding trade. A Bush administration official said today that the United States was opposed to expanding the G-8 any further. 
The efforts to settle the conflict in Macedonia, which are being led by diplomats from the United States and the European Union in the capital, Skopje, were dealt with informally and without any conclusion before the official start of the foreign ministers' meeting. The discussion reflected the precarious negotiations in Skopje where the Macedonian government is balking at accepting a final political deal with Macedonian Albanians, diplomats said. 
On the one hand, the foreign ministers were eager to get a deal so that a planned NATO force could begin to disarm the Albanian insurgents, a European diplomat said. On the other hand, the ministers held back from imposing a settlement on the Macedonian government for fear of encouraging a takeover there by hard-liners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); MIDDLE EAST (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



506 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Draw to Brighton Beach Is by the Sea, by the Sea

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
For buyers at the Oceana condominium development, which is taking shape on 15 acres once occupied by the Brighton Beach Baths, a major attraction is the same thing that once drew bathers -- the Atlantic Ocean.
 That is the case for Vsevolod and Natalie Maksin, who moved in March to a two-bedroom apartment, with water views, that they bought in 1999 after looking at blueprints. "Being able to see and feel the water was one of the most important considerations," said Mr. Maksin, a lawyer and an accountant at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Manhattan. 
 Five buildings with 272 two- to four-bedroom apartments, including penthouses, are now on the site of the bath complex, which closed in 1997. Ultimately, there will be 850 apartments in 15 5- to 12-story buildings in Oceana, a gated community separated from the ocean by the Boardwalk. 
The development, among the largest market-rate housing projects in the boroughs outside of Manhattan in decades, has been under construction for the last 16 months. Its recreational amenities, including a health club and indoor and outdoor pools, have opened. And with all but 30 of the initial units sold, sales will begin this month for 75 more units in the sixth building, said Joshua L. Muss. He is the president of the Muss Development Company, of Forest Hills, Queens, which is developing the $325 million project with the Carlyle Group of Washington. 
Construction on the latest structure will start in two months and is scheduled for completion in 13 months. The building will overlook Brighton Beach Avenue, with its rows of neighborhood stores, and Manhattan beyond. Its apartments are to have two and three bedrooms with 1,000 to 1,550 square feet, and cost $325,000 to $500,000, or $300 to $350 a square foot on average. When the complex opened, the average per square foot price was $250, said Jason A. Muss, Joshua Muss's son and a company vice president. 
Despite the cooling economy, "we have raised prices because as an oceanfront project it is somewhat insulated," Jason Muss said. "We are selling a lifestyle." 
Joshua Muss said the biggest issue "is having enough inventory." 
That is also the case in many Brooklyn neighborhoods, said Jeffrey J. Ferretti, president of National Brokerage in Mill Basin and past president of the Brooklyn Board of Realtors. "Nothing has cooled here," he said.
Howard M. Ginsburg, a sales agent at National Brokerage, said that in the last year prices have risen by an average of 20 percent for one- and two-family homes and by 10 percent for condominiums. He put the average sales price for condominiums at $200,000, and higher for those close to the water. 
"Houses are still selling," he said. "But only a scattered number of new ones are being built."
Mr. Maksin said he bought his Oceana apartment, which cost in the $300,000 range, because at one-third the price of a comparable size unit in Manhattan, "it is a great value," with the potential to appreciate over time.
Monthly maintenance charges range from $211 to $968 for the apartments, and higher for the penthouses. Real estate taxes at the complex will be kept low thanks to a 15-year abatement, with taxes fully abated for 11 years and rising after that by 20 percent a year. 
Despite sales that have been strong enough to support price increases, Joshua Muss said his company's development style was cautious. "We will still build one building at a time," he said. 
Three more structures with 50 to 70 apartments each are in various stages of approval by the New York State attorney general's office, and make up the next wave of construction at the development, he said. A one-acre public park at the entrance to the site along Brighton Avenue is also planned. 
The idea of reshaping the site for housing dates to 1986. From then through the early 1990's, Stephen Muss, Joshua Muss's cousin, tried unsuccessfully to develop 1,500 condominiums in four towers, rising as high as 32 stories. The project was put off in the mid-1990's because of the real-estate recession.
In 1999, Joshua Muss bought the property and reconfigured the project to its present scale and layout. The shorter buildings meet the height restrictions under the area's waterfront zoning, which also required that they not block the view of the water from Brighton Beach Avenue. 
All the buildings at Oceana are designed with gabled roofs and balconies to blend with their older neighbors. The new buildings are also clad in prefabricated stucco panels to better weather the elements that come with a beachfront location. Most of the units at the complex will have full or part ocean views. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The outdoor pool is one of the recreational amenities at the Oceana condominiums, a gated community. The complex is expanding with the planned construction of a new building and more units to be offered for sale. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); PRICE CHANGES (66%) HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



507 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: School Cost Overruns No Secret, Official Says 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Members of the Board of Education howled in protest earlier this month when they learned that the cost of building new schools and repairing old ones was running far above estimates -- so far above that the school system now faces a $1.9 billion shortfall in its current $7 billion capital budget.
 But the president of the School Construction Authority said yesterday that the board members had not exactly been left in the dark about rising costs. 
 According to Milo E. Riverso, president of the construction authority, two computer terminals were set up three years ago on the 11th floor of the Board of Education's headquarters in Brooklyn specifically to allow the seven board members to track the construction authority's progress in building new schools. Board staff members were even trained in using the computers. 
The terminals have remained untouched, Mr. Riverso claimed, saying that the construction authority's computer system showed no evidence that the terminals were ever used to check the authority's financial records.
That was but one of the striking statements made yesterday during a three-and-a-half-hour City Council hearing into the Board of Education's process of building and repairing schools, a hearing prompted by the shortfall. 
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy, who had been personally blamed by some board members for not keeping them informed, told Council members that the Board of Education had routinely failed to amend its capital plans over the last 12 years to take into account rising costs and shifting priorities, apparently in violation of state law. 
Mr. Riverso testified that the cost of completing projects that were scheduled to be finished as much as two years ago was running at more than 10 times the Board of Education's estimates. 
Some board members admitted that they had not been paying close attention to construction expenses. Ninfa Segarra, who took over as board president in April, said she was still trying to find one of the computer terminals. "If it was there, I'm not sure where it is now," she said.
Several City Council members seemed baffled by the dispute. Herbert E. Berman, chairman of the Finance Committee, said the Board of Education, the chancellor and the construction authority seemed to "function as players in a medieval intrigue, operating in shadows which blur accountability, and fearing that cooperation with, and reliance on, other players may erode their own powers."
All the parties appeared to agree on the basic causes of the budget gap. In an economy that, at least for the building trades, is still booming, construction costs have risen by more than a third in the last two years. That has laid waste to the board's 1999 estimates of the costs of building 34 new schools to serve nearly 24,000 students.
In addition, the board has found it difficult to find sites for new schools, and the sites that have been found often have extensive environmental problems or require streets, sewers and other basic infrastructure. In response to studies showing that students learn better in small classes and generally smaller schools, the board has changed projects along those lines -- but at a price.
No one was accusing the board or the construction authority of malfeasance yesterday, though previous inquiries into school construction have involved such charges. Nevertheless, school officials did not hesitate to deny the possibility. "There's been no corruption here," Mr. Levy said. In case the Council members did not understand his point, he added, "Nothing has come to my attention that would suggest any impropriety of that type."
But several Council members did wonder, sometimes loudly, why Mr. Levy or his staff members did not raise the issue of the cost overruns a few months ago when the finance and education committees held hearings on the education budget.
At the time, the chancellor and his staff campaigned very publicly against the mayor's operating budget recommendations, which they said would leave the school system vastly underfunded. Even after they worked out a deal with City Hall that would gain the school system additional money this year if they cut administrative spending, Mr. Levy and his deputies have complained that the board would have to cut more than $100 million from its budget by the time school begins in the fall.
The board's deputy chancellor for management and policy, Anthony Shorris, said those operating budget shortfalls were far more important and immediate than the discrepancies in the construction budget. "There was an extraordinary threat on the table that would have affected the kids right now," Mr. Shorris said. By comparison, he said, problems in the construction budget were "a long-term issue."
Mr. Levy, Mr. Riverso and Ms. Segarra each told the Council members that they were committed to working together to try to come up with more reasonable estimates of construction and repair costs in the three years remaining in the five-year capital plan. A plan to amend the capital plan to account for new estimates could be completed by the end of the summer, they said. 
The chairwoman of the Council's education committee, Priscilla A. Wooten, summed up the Council's response to that promise.
"It's very impressive to know what people can do after the fact," she said, sounding not at all impressed. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randi Weingarten, the teachers' union president, and Chancellor Harold O. Levy at a hearing yesterday. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CITIES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC); BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR); RIVERSO, MILO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



508 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Caribbean Face Era Of More, and Big, Hurricanes 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
The Atlantic Seaboard and the Caribbean face 10 to 40 years of stronger and more frequent hurricanes, a new analysis of weather data shows.
 As a result, crowded coastlines and islands are confronted with the greatest risk of devastation in a generation, said the scientists who conducted the study. 
 Many meteorologists said the new analysis provided the firmest evidence yet that cycles in ocean and atmospheric conditions that suppressed big storms from 1971 to 1994 had shifted into a storm-spawning state.
The number and power of storms first jumped in 1995, but only now have enough years passed to measure a significant trend, the researchers said. 
In a paper in today's issue of Science, they say the driving force is a periodic warming of the Atlantic north of the Equator and a simultaneous drop in wind shear, the difference between trade winds near the surface and winds at higher altitudes.
Tropical storms thrive on energy and moisture supplied by warmer water. In addition, the lack of clashing winds aloft allows the resulting cyclones to mushroom miles high, the researchers reported.
Conditions were similar from the 1920's through the 1960's, the study said. But coasts that were sparsely populated then are now dense with people, high-rise apartment buildings and summer homes, said Stanley B. Goldenberg, the lead author of the study and a meteorologist at the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's hurricane research center in Miami.
The greater frequency of stronger storms, combined with more people and buildings, spells a far greater risk of having a storm become a $100 billion disaster, Mr. Goldenberg said.
"It's like shooting arrows at a target," he said. "The more arrows you shoot, the more likely you are to get a bull's-eye. The problem now is there are not only more arrows, but there are more targets because of the coastal buildup."
In the Caribbean the biggest risk is of enormous loss of life. In the United States, it is enormous losses of property, Mr. Goldenberg said.
"It's not only the number of new buildings, but their heights," Mr. Goldenberg said. "Recent research here has shown that in strong storms, at around 300 to 500 feet you get tremendous peaks in winds" that can have twice the force of winds at the surface. Those potent gusts, he said, can easily rip the skin off a skyscraper.
In the study, the scientists said the return to cooler waters and more wind shear -- and thus less stormy times -- could happen in 10 years, but was likely to persist much longer. 
They said no one knew what drove the cycle of warming and cooling in the North Atlantic, and the relationship between the water temperature and wind shifts was being studied.
Other scientists injected a note of caution, saying the recent string of stormy years was still too short to constitute a clear trend.
In a separate analysis in Science, Dr. Lennart Bengtsson, a climatologist at the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology in Hamburg, Germany, said patterns of hurricane activity were nearly impossible to discern with only a few decades of data.
But he agreed that countries with vulnerable coasts could suffer huge economic losses if they did not prepare for the worst and the worst happened.
"A change to what was typical, say, for 1920 to 1960 would create a potentially serious situation requiring most urgent attention," he wrote in Science.
Dr. Bengtsson and the authors of the new study said the link between warmer seas and hurricane patterns did not necessarily mean that global warming would spawn more such storms. One reason given by Dr. Bengtsson was that, in a generally warmer world, the air above the ocean would warm as well as the water, reducing the contrast that drives the formation of storms.
The new study generated a picture of a tempestuous future by closely tracking sea temperature and wind shear measurements over the last century -- taken by ships and weather balloons -- and comparing patterns with the frequency, severity and tracks of hurricanes from the 1940's until now.
The team limited its full analysis to 1944 to 2000, a stretch with the best data.
Graphs of hurricane frequency meshed well with graphs of water temperature, particularly in the region west of the bulge of Saharan Africa, where most tropical storms begin.
Although the relationship between the shifts in water temperatures and wind shear are still not understood, the pattern is consistent and clear, said Dr. Christopher W. Landsea, a colleague of Mr. Goldenberg at the hurricane center and a co-author of the paper. "The atmosphere and ocean are talking to each other," Dr. Landsea said.
The research adds detail and new lines of evidence to earlier predictions of a stormier future by another of the co-authors, Dr. William M. Gray of Colorado State University, and to separate studies by Dr. James B. Elsner, a hurricane authority at Florida State University.
There is still plenty of variability year to year, with the recent quiet stretch including, for example, the devastating Hurricane Andrew in 1992. So there is no reason to think that the 2001 hurricane season or any particular coming year will be exceptionally catastrophic, the scientists said.
And plenty of other weather factors and changes influence hurricanes. Most notable is El Nino, a condition that develops in the Pacific once or twice a decade and suppresses hurricanes by shifting eastward-flowing winds.
But already, the researchers said, 1995 to 2000 had hurricanes form at a rate twice as great as seen in the preceding quiet period. Moreover, the frequency of strong storms, those with sustained winds of more than 110 miles per hour, is 2.5 times as high as it was.
They added that the recent stormy years have also seen a five-fold increase in hurricanes in the Caribbean, including Hurricane Mitch in October 1998, which killed more than 11,000 people.
The prospect of more exceptionally strong storms is particularly troubling because their destructive power rises enormously for even a small increase in wind speed. For example, Mr. Goldenberg said, winds of 130 m.p.h. have almost double the punch of winds of 100 m.p.h.
"The strong storms produce more than 80 percent of all hurricane damage even though they only account for one-fifth of the storms that make landfall," Dr. Landsea said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about the likelihood of stronger, more frequent hurricanes misstated part of the name of the agency that oversees the hurricane research center. It is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, not Oceanographic.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Hurricane Alley Heating Up Again"After more than 20 years of fewer hurricanes than average, the last six years have seen more major hurricanes, those with wind speeds 110 m.p.h. or faster. The resurgence is associated with a revival of warmer-than-average water temperatures in the Atlantic Ocean and such higher temperatures have been historically linked to far more hurricanes in the Atlantic. Map of Eastern United States tracks major hurricanes during Cool North Atlantic period (1903-25, 1971-94) and Warm North Atlantic period (1926-70, 1995-2000) Graph tracks number of major hurricanes and five-year and overall average from 1946 to 2000.(Source: Dr. Christopher Landsea, NOAA)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); WEATHER (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%) HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS 

ORGANIZATION: SCIENCE (JOURNAL) 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (96%); EQUATOR (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) CARIBBEAN AREA; ATLANTIC OCEAN; 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



509 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: BUOYANT ECONOMY OF NEW YORK STATE SHOWS A REVERSAL 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
New York State's economy, which had been bucking the national economic slump, has slammed into a wall, losing jobs in the private sector in May and June, the first such back-to-back job declines since 1995.
 Employment also fell in New York City, which has been the powerhouse of the state economy in the last couple of years, according to new data from the New York State Department of Labor and the City Comptroller's office. 
 Just a month ago, economists were still seeing signs of slow growth in both the city and the state. But yesterday, state officials revised May's gain in jobs to a loss of about 3,800, and reported that in June the number of jobs fell by about 9,500, adjusted for seasonal factors. 
The results were similar in New York City, said Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller, whose office computes seasonally adjusted job data for the city based on figures provided by the state. Instead of a gain of 1,900 private-sector jobs in May, the city lost 3,800 jobs and 700 more in June.
How could a relatively sunny economic picture suddenly look so cloudy? Some of the answer has to do with job data itself, said Thomas J. Spitznas, an economist in Mt. Vernon, N.Y.
Because of the way employers report job data, job losses are underestimated when bad times begin. "It's the most difficult thing in economics -- the turning point," he said.
Economists tend to look at job growth as the primary sign of an economy's health and focus on private-sector employment because government jobs fluctuate for noneconomic reasons. Last year, for example, many people were hired to work for the census; they are no longer employed by the government.
The new economic data comes as some of the biggest companies on Wall Street warned that they would slash even more jobs. American Express, Merrill Lynch, and J. P. Morgan Chase & Company all said this week that poor profits were forcing them to cut jobs, although it was not clear how many of those cuts would be in New York City. Wall Street employment in the city has fallen by about 4,100 since February, and the declines are accelerating, the comptroller's office said.
"We are not an island, and the whole nation is slowing down," said James P. Brown, an analyst for the state labor department. As corporate profits fall across the country, he said, so does employment not only on Wall Street, but also at advertising agencies, insurance companies and law firms.
Business services -- a catchall of temporary employment agencies, computer consultants and dot-coms -- have shed more than 15,000 jobs in the last two months after soaring during the city's boom. But other sectors gained jobs during that period.
A weak manufacturing industry has hurt northern and western New York State, particularly Buffalo and Rochester, which have suffered a net loss of private-sector jobs over the past 12 months.
The job market is still better in New York State than in much of the rest of the country. For example, the state's unemployment rate is 4.4 percent, which is just under the national average of 4.5 percent. And while the national rate has risen by half a point in the last year, New York's unemployment rate remains just under its level of a year ago.
During the 1990's, New York's jobless figures were higher than the national numbers, but recently the state's jobless rate has been lower than the national average.
Stephen Kagann, chief economist for Gov. George E. Pataki, said that over the last year, private jobs in the state rose by 1 percent, while nationally the increase was 0.4 percent.
Even in New York City, the job losses are modest compared with the situation in cities like Detroit, which has lost more than 10,000 jobs in the last year. And while the unemployment rate has edged up from 5.1 percent in March to 5.3 percent in June, the jobless rate in New York City remains well under the 5.6-percent rate recorded a year ago, when the economy was still booming.
"A pessimist would say New York is finally getting hit," said Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "An optimist would say New York is hanging in there pretty well."
Which camp is Mr. Bram in? "In the short-term, I'm pretty optimistic," he said. "But New York City is very prone to booms and busts."
Mr. Bram said he was watching two areas closely. One is the real estate market, where sales have slowed, but prices have not dropped. The other is Wall Street -- in particular, the volume of stocks being traded, which he said is an even better forecaster of Wall Street employment than stock prices. "Our research shows pretty conclusively that as goes the financial sector," he said, "so goes New York City."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "INDICATORS -- Employment Slows in New York"Change from previous month of total jobs in the private sector. Chart shows national, state, and city percentages from Jan. 2000 to June 2001.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics; New York State Department of Labor; City Comptroller's Office)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TRENDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); BONDS (69%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (64%); JPM (LSE) (64%); 8634 (TSE) (64%); AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



510 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: As the World Warms: More Debate 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The New Laws of Nations," by Laura D. Tyson (Op-Ed, July 14): While it is the case that an increasingly global economy will require multinational solutions, what kind of international governance will we choose and whom it will benefit? 
 The Kyoto Protocol on climate change and other environmental treaties represent the type of approach we require to sustain the environment and improve social standards. 
In contrast are harmful multinational approaches like the investor-rights provisions in the North American Free Trade Agreement, which are being used by multinational investors to sue governments for enacting environmental and other public interest protections.
Although we must embrace multilateral solutions that raise environmental and social standards, we should also reject those that pull them downward.

DAVID WASKOW
Washington, July 15, 2001

The writer is trade and investment policy coordinator, Friends of the Earth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) WEATHER; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; GLOBAL WARMING 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (83%) FRIENDS OF THE EARTH 

PERSON: WASKOW, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



511 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: As the World Warms: More Debate 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "U.S. Set to Oppose International Plan for Cleaner Energy" (front page, July 14): 
 The Bush administration's opposition to the clean-energy initiative of the Group of Eight industrial nations is yet another twist of contradictions and international embarrassments. 
The administration wants the marketplace and not government to decide how quickly renewable resources will enter the marketplace. Yet economists agree that present energy prices are far from representing real costs of energy, particularly the damages done by fossil fuels, which do receive handsome subsidies in both the United States and, more important, in most of the developing world.
So the marketplace can't decide without government help. Worse, the Bush administration's own energy policy suggestions are precisely what the market will not bring forth to the United States -- significantly more oil and gas production and more nuclear power.

LEE SCHIPPER
Paris, July 15, 2001

The writer is an energy economist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Cathy Hull) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); WRITERS (73%) ENERGY AND POWER; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIR POLLUTION 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHIPPER, LEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



512 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Rate Proposal For Electricity In California 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 19 

 BODY:
A proposed agreement between state regulators and the agency that buys electricity for millions of Californians would allow the state to raise electric rates without outside review. 
 The California Public Utilities Commission issued the agreement on Wednesday and it will become effective after a period for public comment in August. 
 The proposal explains how the commission will work with the Department of Water Resources to ensure that the state is repaid for the billions of dollars it has spent buying electricity for customers of three financially ailing utilities. 
In the agreement, the commission vows to assess electric rates at least annually and adjust them so the department has enough money to pay for its power purchases and administrative costs.
Harvey Rosenfield, the president of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights, said on Wednesday that under the agreement the commission waived the right to deny a rate increase if it was deemed unfair to California ratepayers. Mr. Rosenfield said the agreement gave unelected officials "the unilateral right to order rate increases for the next 15 years." 
Geoff Dryvynsyde, a legal adviser at the Public Utilities Commission, said the commission would be "no longer in charge of determining what costs are reasonable before it changes rates."
The commission's agreement is a vital step toward California's efforts to issue $13 billion in bonds to recoup the more than $8 billion it has spent since January buying electricity. 
California wants to improve its credit rating to lower interest rates on the bonds and to assure Wall Street of a reliable stream of money rolling in from electric rates.
In May, the Public Utilities Commission issued a record rate increase that followed another January increase of roughly 10 percent.
The state has bought electricity for the customers of three companies since January, when the utilities warned the state that high power prices and the inability to recoup their costs through frozen electric rates were driving them into bankruptcy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); WATER QUALITY (56%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (91%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (91%) CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



513 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Fire in Baltimore Snarls Internet Traffic, Too 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 19 

 BODY:
A fire that raged for a second day in a train tunnel under Baltimore cast smoke over downtown offices and burned fiber-optic cables today, slowing Internet traffic across the country.
 Several city blocks were closed above the tunnel, where a train carrying hazardous materials derailed on Wednesday afternoon. Extreme heat kept firefighters from reaching a 12,000-gallon tanker car that was leaking 10 gallons of hydrochloric acid a minute. Just 5 of the train's 60 cars had been removed from the tunnel by this afternoon. 
 Firefighters fed a hose through a manhole and doused the cars to cool them, a fire department spokesman, Hector Torres, said. Railroad workers then began vacuuming out the acid. 
"We're told some of the boxcars are actually glowing," Mr. Torres said. "You're talking about glowing metal. I'm guessing 1,000 or 1,500 degrees."
More than 100 firefighters battled the blaze. Two who suffered chest pains on Wednesday remained hospitalized today.
The train was carrying wood as well as hydrochloric acid and at least five other hazardous chemicals. But Mr. Torres said air quality tests showed that the smoke was coming mostly from burning wood.
He said there appeared to be no toxic substances in the smoke, "so that's a good sign." 
The fire caused major Internet slowdowns in the Middle Atlantic States, and delays rippled across the country as companies diverted Web traffic to other cables. Fiber-optic cable running through the tunnel was damaged by the fire, but the authorities said they had not assessed the extent of the damage.
Keynote Systems, which measures the performance of Web sites, said slowdowns in Atlanta, Seattle, Los Angeles and elsewhere were probably related to the burned cables. The company said the Internet delays were the worst it had seen.
Telecommunications companies including WorldCom, PSINet and AboveNet all reported problems. 
No homes or businesses were evacuated today, but health officials warned people in the area to stay inside, keep windows closed and turn off ventilation systems.
Robert Gould, a spokesman for CSX Transportation Inc., said the more than two dozen trains that travel through the city each day would have to be rerouted or rescheduled.
A National Transportation Safety Board team was investigating the the accident, which happened as the train was traveling from North Carolina to New Jersey.

GRAPHIC: Chart/MapFive of the train's 60 cars were removed yesterday. Officials hope to remove these four cars today. These contain plywood and paper believed to be the fuel source of a fire that is filling the tunnel with smoke. Map of Maryland highlighting area of train tunnel. Chart shows portion of tunnel including: tunnel opening, approximate position of train in tunnel and levels of flammable liquid and hydrochloric acid. Photograph by Globexplorer(Source: CSX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); FIRES (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (78%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (77%); BULK SHIPPING (76%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (76%); TRUCK SAFETY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%) RAILROADS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; FIRES AND FIREMEN; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FIBER OPTICS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES 

COMPANY: CSX TRANSPORTATION INC (63%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); KEYNOTE SYSTEMS INC (53%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); KEYN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (63%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (63%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (53%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%) BALTIMORE (MD)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



514 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Forget the Tour Bus; Stay a Night; 
Hotels Are Signing Up to Join the Harlem Renaissance

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
When the Hotel Theresa, known as the Waldorf of Harlem, closed its doors in 1966, the idea of out-of-town visitors staying in the heritage-rich but harrowed neighborhood faded into history. Over subsequent decades, a few pioneers opened hostels or bed-and-breakfasts, mostly to serve venturesome Europeans. By and large, however, most visitors confined their time in Harlem to a few hours, and their vista to a tour bus window. 
 But over the past few years, a cottage industry of hostels, bed-and-breakfasts and guesthouses, many in brownstones built more than a century ago, has sprung up, reflecting the growing number of visitors to a revitalized Harlem. Run by both newcomers and old-timers, the homes cater to backpackers on a budget, to professionals or artists in the city for work, or to tourists seeking to soak up Harlem's storied history and culture. 
 And now it appears that Harlem is about to get a hotel -- or more than one. A boutique hotel has signed a lease for a property on 125th Street, according to Terry Lane, the president and C.E.O. of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone. The city is also in preliminary discussions with two hotel chains. A neighborhood association has proposed converting a former prison in the Mount Morris Park Historic District into a boutique hotel. And Imam Izak-el M. Pasha, the religious leader of the Malcolm Shabazz Mosque, is developing plans for a hotel on 116th Street. 
"I didn't see it as something hard to sell," he said. "It's logical." 
Visitors who stay in a neighborhood tend to spend money there on food, transportation and entertainment as well as lodging. And conversations with tourists who ended up staying in Harlem through intrepidity or circumstance suggest another, less tangible benefit. They often carry away a more nuanced, positive picture of the place than the one they arrived with.
Nobuaki Suyama, 43, a university lecturer, said Japanese magazines had taught him that only poor blacks lived in Harlem, and that it was dangerous. But after staying in a hostel there this week, he said: "Just because it's Harlem doesn't make it dangerous. We should dispel the stereotype that it is not a place to go."
That more people are seeking to stay in Harlem suggests that that entrenched "no go" reputation is being chipped away. That those spending the night are a tiny minority of the number of visitors over all reflects how much more repair its image needs. Many proprietors say they still sense a reluctance among Americans, especially white Americans, to stay in Harlem, which continues to ricochet between opposing poles of fascination and fear in the popular imagination. 
"Americans hear the word Harlem and feel afraid," said Jim Williams, who opened the Sugar Hill International House, a hostel on St. Nicholas Avenue, in 1985, and has since had thousands of guests -- mostly European. "There is a latent racism." Mr. Williams said he had always believed that the neighborhood's dangers were exaggerated. "We told people, 'If you don't buy drugs and you mind your own business, you'll have no problem.' " 
Adrian Barker, 35, a British civil servant who was staying at the Sugar Hill hostel, said that for many years he, too, was afraid of Harlem. But last year, Mr. Barker, who is black, started to stay there when visiting New York. It is "where real African-Americans are," he said. "I like to be around them, to listen to them. I enjoy the humor. It's so different from where I'm from." 
Gisele Allard, a French Canadian, credits herself for helping to open the door to Europeans in Harlem. She opened the New York Bed and Breakfast, which is really a hostel, on 119th Street in the early 1990's. She now runs the Uptown Hostel on Lenox Avenue as well. 
"I feel like 110th Street was like the Berlin Wall -- it had to be chipped away," she said. 
Peter Roth, 26, came to Harlem from the Czech Republic three years ago looking for a bargain and stayed at the Uptown Hostel. He met his future wife there, decided to remain in Harlem, and now works for Ms. Allard. 
"Coming from Europe, at first it's strange to be around so many black people," he said. "But after a while it seems strange downtown because there are so many white people."
Keeping an establishment going in Harlem -- particularly when a strong dollar is deterring foreign travel to America -- is not easy, Ms. Allard said. Still, she has done well enough to pass on some business to several neighbors, who are now starting their own operations.
One of them is Lenny Smalls, who works downtown as a printer but has also turned the Harlem brownstone he bought in 1981 into a bed-and-breakfast. "My house is always open -- it's more like a friendship than a business," he said. "We can talk together, eat together." 
Some Harlem bed-and-breakfasts have found niches. The Home of the Healing Fire was founded in 1995 by Barbara Ann Teer, the founder and director of the National Black Theater. It offers meditation and yoga in a brownstone in the Strivers' Row area. 
The Harlem Flophouse, opened last year by Rene Calvo, a writer and director, serves mostly European artists, writers and musicians. 
The leafy historic district around Mount Morris Park teems with guesthouses. On 120th and 121st Streets, at least eight homeowners rent to visitors. 
One of the few to successfully tap into the domestic market is the Urban Jem Guest House, which Jane Alex Mendelson opened three years ago on Fifth Avenue just north of Mount Morris Park. She has had black Columbia alumni in New York for their 30th reunion, scholars researching at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, and jazz aficionados like Irving Gregory, 69, who grew up in Harlem. 
"Most people down here are scared of Harlem," said Mr. Gregory, who now lives in North Carolina. "I drive a brand-new Mercedes-Benz, and I had no problems -- and I could find a parking space." 
The success of the bed-and-breakfasts has inspired the Mount Morris Park Community Improvement Association to propose turning the former Parkside Correctional Facility, at the corner of Mount Morris Park West and 121st Street, into a boutique hotel. Along with housing visitors in 34 rooms, said Valerie Bradley, the association's executive director, it would train Harlem residents in hotel management.
But like many aspects of Harlem's changing face, the proposal, which was submitted to the state's Harlem Community Development Corporation last week, has met a mixed reaction from residents, some of whom say they fought too hard to get rid of the prison to be overrun by tourists now. 
If prisoners may be replaced by tourists, the poor, in some cases, already have been. Some of the guesthouses were once single-room-occupancy dwellings for low-income tenants. While most current owners say their buildings were emptied of tenants before they took custody, the increase in rooms housing tourists means fewer rooms for the down-and-out. The building now called the Harlem Flophouse, for example, once housed 14 families. 
And the Park View Hotel at Central Park North and Lenox Avenue was, until a few years ago, a decrepit home mostly for hundreds of African immigrants trying to get a foothold in New York. Today it is funkily refurbished, the lobby decorated in sorbet colors with computer terminals. It now calls itself Harlem's "hottest, hippest hotel/hostel," and has housed a steady stream of mostly European tourists since February 2000. 
Only a few Africans remain. Their compatriots, they say, were bought out or evicted. The management says that it compensated those who came forward and said they wanted to move, but did not pressure anyone to leave. Either way, the economics of change are clear: one immigrant from the Ivory Coast said he and a roommate paid a total of $90 a week for a room. The 310 dorm beds for tourists -- usually six to a room -- now run $26.05 a night apiece. 
Should other hotels open, Lloyd A. Williams, the president of the Harlem Chamber of Commerce, said they would serve not only tourists, but also the out-of-towners who come for Upper Manhattan's hospitals and educational institutions, and for religious meetings or family occasions. And a hotel would fill another need in Harlem, he said: a place for large gatherings.
In the meantime, the existing lodging places have a new advertising hook, thanks to a presidential pioneer. As the Web site of Harlem Habitat, which puts potential visitors in touch with guesthouses, puts it: "Hey, you might even see our newest neighbor, Bill Clinton!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Pat Abisola Faison, left, and Ahijah Mitchell, who manage the Home of the Healing Fire. At left, the Jazz Room at Urban Jem B&B. Right, the lobby of the Park View Hotel. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1); The Urban Jem Guest House, which opened three years ago on Fifth Avenue, has housed Columbia alumni, scholars and jazz aficionados. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); CLOSINGS (78%); CITIES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); HISTORY (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); RELIGION (65%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



515 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Global PC Sales Dip 

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 Worldwide sales of personal computers declined during the last quarter for the first time since 1986 as the United States economy's troubles spread to other regions, two market research firms reported. Gartner Dataquest said unit shipments fell 2 percent from the second quarter of last year, to 29.8 million. The International Data Corporation pegged the decline at 1.9 percent, to 30.4 million.
 Chris Gaither (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (87%); SHIPMENTS (85%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: GARTNER DATAQUEST; INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



516 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing Ferry Service To End 

BYLINE:  NYT 

 BODY:
 SeaStreak America is closing its ferry service from the 58th Street Pier in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, to Pier 11 in Manhattan, on July 27, after about three years. 
"It's getting too uneconomical to run the boat," said Patty Shrensel, customer service manager for Sea Streak, in Atlantic Highlands, N.J., confirming a report in yesterday's New York Post. Ms. Shrensel said the slowing economy has made fuel and boat upkeep very expensive. Service will continue to Pier 11 and East 34th Street from Atlantic Highlands and Highlands, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%) FERRIES 

ORGANIZATION: SEASTREAK AMERICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



517 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Abusive Trials in Egypt 

 BODY:
Tolerance for political dissent or unpopular lifestyles has never been a feature of Hosni Mubarak's 20-year tenure as Egypt's president. But recently Mr. Mubarak's rule seems to be growing more authoritarian and arbitrary. This week, 52 defendants were hauled before a special state security court for alleged homosexual activities. If convicted, they face sentences of three to five years with no right of appeal unless Mr. Mubarak personally intervenes. In May a similar court sentenced Saad Eddin Ibrahim, Egypt's leading human rights advocate, to seven years in prison for his efforts to promote democracy and religious tolerance. 
 This repressive trend is particularly disturbing in a country that is one of America's biggest aid recipients. It is also potentially dangerous at a time when the entire Mideast has become more volatile following the breakdown of peace efforts between Israel and the Palestinians. Instead of staging show trials, Mr. Mubarak should be doing more to address his people's real concerns like poverty and substandard social services. 
 Homosexuality is not a crime in Egypt, and should not be in any society. But homosexuality is strongly condemned by Islamic law. Prosecuting these men for contempt for religion, promoting deviant ideas and obscene behavior may be part of Mr. Mubarak's efforts to court Islamic conservatives, thereby reducing the appeal of fundamentalist guerrilla groups. The trial also seems to be intended to suppress gay-oriented Internet chat rooms. In Egypt as in other unfree societies, the police worry about people using the Internet to sidestep their efforts to control public speech and behavior. 
Mr. Ibrahim, a 62-year-old scholar who holds American as well as Egyptian citizenship, became a target because his highly respected research organization, the Ibn Khaldun Center, received outside funding from the European Union and thus had the independence to challenge the government on sensitive issues like persecution of Coptic Christians and electoral fraud. His trial was unfairly conducted and politically motivated, an unpromising precedent for this latest case. His prosecution was seen as a deliberate move to intimidate less prominent government critics. 
Mr. Mubarak's dictatorship is milder than that of most other Arab countries, and his foreign policy is generally more moderate. Under his rule, Egypt has been more open to economic reforms and positive outside influences than most of its neighbors. That is a distinction he should want to emphasize. Instead, his recent prosecutions threaten to blur it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (79%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRISONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); APPEALS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); CHAT ROOMS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (55%) EDITORIALS; HOMOSEXUALITY; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM OF RELIGION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (92%) MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES); IBRAHIM, SAAD EDDIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%) EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



518 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Microsoft Says PC Business Will Worsen

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation reported solid gains in quarterly revenues and operating profits yesterday, but the company said that it expected the personal computer business to worsen further in the current quarter.
 John Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said that during the current quarter ending in September he expected worldwide demand for personal computers to be "very soft to flat." If the Microsoft projections prove accurate, that would represent a further slowdown from the quarter ended in June, when PC shipments grew a sluggish 7 percent or so, Mr. Connors said. 
 Microsoft's business, however, has held up remarkably during a period when most companies in the computer business are reporting steep declines in profits and announcing layoffs. Yet looking forward, Microsoft did say it expected its revenue in the current quarter to be $6 billion to $6.2 billion, and its earnings per share to be 39 cents to 40 cents.
Those "guidance" ranges for the three-month period that has just begun are below the levels analysts had been projecting. The Wall Street consensus estimates for the September quarter were for revenue of $6.3 billion and earnings per share of 45 cents, according to Thomson Financial/ First Call.
Microsoft's sobering assessment of the near-term outlook for the industry and the company drove Microsoft shares down in after-hours trading. During the day, the price of Microsoft shares rose $2, to $72.57, but fell as low as $69.50 in after-hours trading following the company's report and conference call.
Yet given a difficult economy and the precipitous drop in spending on technology, Microsoft has done extraordinarily well. "Microsoft has decoupled itself some from the tough times of the PC cycle," said David Readerman, an analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco.
Revenue in the quarter ended June 30 increased 13 percent, to $6.58 billion, while operating income rose 8 percent, to $2.75 billion, or 44 cents a share.
The results contained no surprises largely because Microsoft announced its overall results on July 11, when it disclosed that it was taking a one-time charge of $2.6 billion for losses on its investments in telecommunications and cable television companies. Including the investment write-off, Microsoft's net income was $66 million, or 1 cent a share.
But Wall Street analysts focus on Microsoft's current operations, not its portfolio of investments, especially since the company sits on a $31.6 billion nest egg of cash and marketable securities.
So did Mr. Connors, summing up Microsoft's 2001 fiscal year, which ended in June. "We had a very good year in light of the economic conditions," he said in an interview. "And we have a lot of enthusiasm and momentum going into 2002."
Microsoft has prospered in difficult times for the PC industry largely by increasing its sales of its industrial-strength and higher-priced Windows 2000 operating system to businesses. It also noted that its sales of SQL database software and e-mail software that run on hub computers, or servers, at the center of corporate computer networks is rising rapidly, up roughly 30 percent from the period a year earlier.
Advertising on the company's MSN Web sites rose 50 percent in the quarter and, Microsoft said, surpassed that of Yahoo for the first time.
During the conference call, Mr. Connors made a passing reference to "ongoing litigation," a reference to Microsoft's long-running antitrust battle with the Justice Department and several states.
In the latest development in the case, a federal appeals court yesterday set a deadline of Aug. 3 for government prosecutors to respond to the company's request for a rehearing on one point. Microsoft's lawyers asked the court on Wednesday to re-examine its conclusion that the company illegally combined the code for its Internet browsing software with its monopoly Windows operating system. With yesterday's step, the court indicated it would at least look at the issue once more.
In the filing on Wednesday, Microsoft said that it remained "committed to moving forward promptly." Still, delay helps the company more than the government. The longer the company can put off and extend hearings on what remedies should be taken for its antitrust violations, the less likely Microsoft is to face court-ordered sanctions before it ships its new operating system in October.
Competitors and critics say that Microsoft's ambitious plans to include Web services for listening to music, instant messaging and online shopping in Windows XP promise to strengthen the company's dominance of computing and extend its reach in Internet commerce. Microsoft replies that Web services are being added to Windows after extensive market research and are consumer benefits.
In addition, the Kentucky state attorney general's office said yesterday that Microsoft had approached the state about settlement talks. The two sides, agreed to meet in the next couple of weeks, a Kentucky spokeswoman said, adding that willingness to talk did not necessarily mean an eagerness to settle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (93%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (57%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: CONNORS, JOHN P; LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



519 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: They Sold the Derivative, but They Didn't Understand It 

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
AMERICAN EXPRESS "did not fully comprehend the risk" it was taking, explained its chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, as he announced corporate America's latest bath, this one for $826 million.
 The saga of this bath reflects many trends of the recent boom. Companies took risks to get the kind of profits that would impress Wall Street, sometimes involving derivatives. When prices were high, they had no fear. 
 The American Express mea culpa also is representative of how corporate America is responding to the new environment. It is firing people, with as many as 5,000 jobs to be eliminated, in the hope that cutting costs will produce profits. It is more reluctant to take risks on investments. And while it was quite willing to buy back its own stock at high prices last year, now it will buy fewer shares.
As derivatives go, collateralized debt obligations are not all that complicated. A diversified collection of junk bonds or risky bank loans are put together, and then securities backed by that collection are sold. The riskiest of them, sometimes called toxic waste, will pay out only if everything goes right. The best will be fine unless the entire portfolio defaults, and so on through the quality spectrum.
American Express went big for them in 1997 and early 1998. Back then, recalled Jeremy Gluck, the Moody's expert on such things, the people who packaged those securities sold them with explanations of what would happen if 2 percent of junk bonds went into default each year. Now the default rate is 8 percent, and investments that seemed safe are producing losses. American Express assumes the default rate will not improve until 2003.
As it happens, a leading packager of collateralized debt obligations is none other than American Express, which now admits it did not understand the risks very well.
Such ignorance may not be uncommon. "There are all kinds of transactions going on out there where one party doesn't understand it," Richard M. Kovacevich, the chief executive of Wells Fargo, said in an interview yesterday.
That lack of knowledge is a function of the strides that have been made in financial engineering. Derivatives make it possible to shift risks in ways that were undreamed of even a decade ago. But the computer models used to figure out how to value those risks are sometimes not very good. "Most of the pricing is done on a very unsophisticated basis," Mr. Gluck of Moody's said.
Collateralized debt obligations are still selling well, and pricing is more realistic than it was in early 1998. But American Express says it will not take such risks again, although it will keep manufacturing such derivative securities to be sold to its institutional clients. (Would you patronize a chef who won't eat his own cooking?)
The newfound aversion to risk is not restricted to American Express. Banks are charging higher interest rates and demanding more covenants on corporate loans, thus tightening credit for many borrowers at the same time the Federal Reserve tries to make borrowing less expensive. Capital spending is plummeting and industrial production is at recessionary levels. But recession has been averted because consumers are still spending.
It is the great dichotomy of 2001, but it is not a split that can endure forever. Individuals, in their roles as investors and consumers, are showing they expect an early recovery. But much of corporate America is preparing for a period of sustained sluggishness. Hopes for recovery may ride on which side concludes it was wrong.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows collateral debt obligations new issue volume since 1996. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (74%); RICHARD M KOVACEVICH (58%) NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



520 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Among Neighbors of MX Missiles, Little Neutrality 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo., July 17 

 BODY:
The small cement slab on Ed Weppner's ranch is surrounded by a barbed wire fence bearing a sign warning that deadly force will be used against intruders. Mr. Weppner's home is less than a mile away.
 Fifty such slabs dot the prairies northeast of Cheyenne, each one sitting over a 195,000-pound MX -- Peacekeeper missiles, as President Ronald Reagan called them -- the he-men of the nation's nuclear arsenal, equipped with as many as 10 warheads, each vastly more destructive than any bomb dropped on Japan a half-century ago. 
 Here, where geology and isolation create an ideal site for missile installations, nuclear missiles have been part of residents' lives since the late 1950's. As an engineering student, Mr. Weppner, 60, helped build a launching complex for the Atlas, the country's first intercontinental missile, on another part of the family's 40,000-acre ranch, a spread about the size of the District of Columbia. 
The Atlas program was phased out as hundreds of Minuteman Missiles were installed in 1962. In 1986, 50 Minutemen were replaced by MX's.
Now, the Defense Department is planning to retire the MX as a cost-saving effort and as fulfillment of President Bush's vow to make deep cuts in the nation's nuclear forces.
Some residents, ever mindful that an enemy strike could blow the whole area to smithereens, see removal of the missiles as long overdue. Others, for whom the missiles symbolize national security and a strong part of the area's economy, are not necessarily happy to see them go.
"In a real sense, our lifestyle, our way of life is predicated on a strong defense and a strong military that protects us," Mr. Weppner said, sitting on his front porch. "The best defense is a strong offense, whether it's football, the military or whatever."
Explaining how he felt, living beside such a powerful weapon, he added: "I don't know if it is a source of pride; it's just something I do."
And as for any sense of discomfort, knowing what an enemy strike might do, he said, "It's more uncomfortable to me walking down the streets of New York City."
David Nimmo, who lives about 15 miles away and less than two miles from another MX silo, discounted any feelings of pride or patriotism for having the missiles so close by. For him, they mean military might.
"I'd hate to see them take them out," said Mr. Nimmo, 58. "We need the leverage. Some of those places would come in and take us if they could. The missiles are our muscle."
He said it had barely crossed his mind that MX silos -- or those for the Minuteman in Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado, Montana and South Dakota -- might ever become targets of enemy attack.
"Seems to me they would aim for big cities," Mr. Nimmo said. "If they hit the missile houses here, what are they going to accomplish? That's not going to paralyze the nation."
The demise of the MX program, if approved by Congress, could also have an economic impact, especially in Cheyenne, where the missile program is managed by Francis E. Warren Air Force Base. Capt. Stacy Vaughn said that eliminating the MX would affect the jobs of 600 people, several hundred of whom could be reassigned to another base.
Some residents of the area are happy to see the missiles leave, whatever the impact. 
To people like Margaret Laybourn, who began protesting the missiles here in the early years of the cold war, the end of the MX program cannot come too soon.
"I'm happy to get them out," Ms. Laybourn said. "Living in Bull's-eye, Wyoming, is no fun."
Ms. Laybourn led many of the early efforts against nuclear weapons in Cheyenne, even with the town prospering. In one five-year stretch in the 1980's, she joined a small group of missile opponents in a prayer vigil every Friday outside the gates of the base, this at a time when Wyoming had powerful voices in Congress, like Senators Alan K. Simpson and Malcolm Wallop and Representative Dick Cheney, all strong supporters of the MX program.
Ms. Laybourn said she liked to think that her group's efforts helped scale back the original plans to install 250 MX missiles.
Still an active missile opponent at 78, Ms. Laybourn has become a hero to others, like Mae Kirkbride, whose 17,000-acre ranch is within several miles of four MX sites.
"We've been fighting these things tooth and nail," Ms. Kirkbride said. "I'm very happy they're going. I never thought they were the sort of thing that kept us safe from any oppressor or invader, anyway. We'd fire ours; then they'd fire theirs. So what's left? I don't think they have been the source of any useful function."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On his ranch near Cheyenne, Wyo., Ed Weppner took a walk this week beside an MX missile silo, one of 50 that the Pentagon may retire. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) Map of Wyoming highlighting Cheyenne: MX missile silos now dot the landscape in southeast Wyoming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); BUDGETS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; MX (MISSILE); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WYOMING; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



521 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
Spinning 'Indecency' Into Wholesome Issues

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
 This is a new 30-second television commercial called "Decency" that the mayoral campaign of Alan G. Hevesi begins broadcasting this evening.

PRODUCER -- Morris, Carrick & Guma.

ON THE SCREEN -- The advertisement starts with Mr. Hevesi walking jauntily down the steps of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, followed by shots of him sitting in a classroom and talking to voters.

THE SCRIPT -- "As mayor I won't use my energy searching for indecency inside our museums. Instead, I'll fight for decency outside them and to keep our city moving in the right direction for all of us. For smaller schools, smaller classes and the best teachers. For affordable housing and an economy that creates new jobs. And for a police force that's tough on crime and misconduct. I'm Alan Hevesi and that's why I'm running for mayor."

ACCURACY -- The ad summarizes Mr. Hevesi's central campaign pledges. The "indecency" remark refers to the battle between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the Brooklyn Museum of Art, which showed art that Mr. Giuliani attacked as indecent. One of Mr. Hevesi's opponents, Peter F. Vallone, suggested Mr. Hevesi kept a low profile on the issue when the mayor first moved to cut off funds to the museum in 1999. Mr. Hevesi responded by producing a letter that he had written to Mr. Vallone: "I join you in expressing my distaste for the Brooklyn Museum exhibit, but also in your effort to make sure that we continue to fund our great cultural institutions even when we disagree with and are upset by some of their work product."

SCORECARD -- The reference to Mr. Giuliani is the latest attempt by Mr. Hevesi to distance himself from the mayor. The last time Mr. Hevesi made an indirect reference to Mr. Giuliani in an ad, Mr. Giuliani went on the attack, drawing attention to Mr. Hevesi's campaign. The ad juxtaposes the allusion to the museum fight with what Mr. Hevesi says would be his priorities as mayor. ADAM NAGOURNEY

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (54%); JOB CREATION (54%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



522 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Big Industrial Nations Urge Monitors for Mideast
Foreign ministers of the major industrialized countries, responding to the increasing fury of violence in the Middle East, told the Israelis and the Palestinians that they should agree to "third party" monitors, terminology that American officials said was not meant to imply that either the United Nations or the European Union would provide the monitors. Israel has long rejected proposals for outside monitors. A1

Three Palestinians, including a baby, were killed near the West Bank town of Hebron in a drive-by shooting that the police said was apparently an attack by Jewish gunmen. A3

On the eve of the G-8 meeting in Genoa, Italy, thousands marched peacefully to protest the meeting as a symbol of globalization, capitalist exploitation, environmental insensitivity and various contemporary ills. A10

Bush in Britain
President Bush toured English landmarks and spent the night at Chequers, the retreat of Prime Minister Tony Blair, who sought to minimize his differences with Washington. A10

A partisan foreign policy battle erupted in Washington after a newspaper critique offered by Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader. A10

The House, siding with President Bush, turned back an effort to end normal trade relations with China. A4

Jeffrey Archer Is Jailed
The 61-year-old millionaire author and member of the House of Lords with a roguish past of surviving brushes with scandal was convicted of perjury and sentenced to four years in prison. A4

Nepal Premier Resigns
Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala succumbed to pressures from a bribery scandal in his government, a Maoist insurgency in the countryside and the blood bath in the royal palace last month. A3

Nationwide Strike in Argentina
Several labor confederations began a 24-hour strike to protest the government's new austerity plan, which cut public wages and pensions by up to 13 percent to avert a default on foreign debt payments. A8

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A12-19

Bush's Charities Plan Wins Passage in House
The House voted, 233 to 198, to expand government financing of the social work of religious charities, after Republican leaders beat back a challenge from Democrats and Republican moderates over civil rights. A1

Social Security Overhaul Urged
A commission appointed by the Bush administration reported that demographic and economic pressures left no choice but to reshape Social Security to let workers invest in stocks and bonds, the sooner the better. A14

Mistakes in Rebate Letters
The I.R.S. said a computer glitch resulted in 523,000 households across the country receiving letters that overstated the size of their tax rebates; a second letter will be sent. A14

Fugitive Headed Back for Trial
Ira S. Einhorn, 61, the counter-culture celebrity who fled murder charges in Philadelphia 20 years ago, was taken into custody by the French police for a flight back to the United States for a new trial. A12

Baltimore Fire's Disruptions
A fire that burned for a second day in a train tunnel cast smoke over downtown offices and seared fiber-optic cables, slowing Internet traffic. A15

A Green Mutual Fund
The Sierra Club wants to start a mutual fund using its name to attract investors' money to shares of companies that meet the club's standards for environmental performance. A19

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Sanctions for Johns Hopkins
A federal oversight agency suspended almost all of Johns Hopkins University's federally financed medical research involving human subjects, after an inquiry into the death of an asthma test subject. A1

Long-Range Hurricane Forecast
The Atlantic Seaboard and the Caribbean face 10 to 40 years of stronger and more frequent hurricanes, leaving crowded coastlines and islands to face their greatest risk in a generation, scientists said. A1

Condom Effectiveness Studied
Condoms are effective in fighting the spread of H.I.V. and gonorrhea, but there is not enough evidence to say for certain that they protect against other diseases, federal officials concluded in a draft report. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

State's Economic Muscle Loses Some of Its Strength
New York State's economy, which had been bucking the national economic slump, lost private-sector jobs in both May and June, the first such back-to-back job declines since 1995, state and city data show. Employment also fell in New York City. A1

Louima Officer's Appeal
Lawyers for Charles Schwarz, a former officer serving 15 years in prison in the Abner Louima police brutality case, appealed his two convictions to a federal appeals court. One of the judges mentioned a new affidavit, by an officer who was not identified, that he said contradicted testimony of Detective Eric Turetzky, the government's chief witness against Mr. Schwarz. The affidavit is sealed. B1

Trial as Adults Is Sought
Twelve teenagers charged with beating a homeless man to death last month during an after-school rampage in Paterson, N.J., should be tried as adults, prosecutors said. B1

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-38

EDUCATION

A Return to Segregation
A Harvard study said classrooms grew more segregated in the 1990's, reversing desegregation gains from the civil rights era and undermining educational prospects for black and Hispanic children. A14

Revised Admissions Policy
The University of California Regents, which voted six years ago to drop affirmative action, approved a new policy intended to admit more blacks, Hispanics and good students from bad high schools. A12

Dispute Over Cost Overruns
New York City Board of Education members were criticized at a hearing by Chancellor Harold O. Levy and others for faulty monitoring of school construction and repair costs, which have often run far above estimates. The school system faces a $1.9 billion shortfall in its current $7 billion capital budget. B1

Lawmaker Assails Board Plan
The speaker of the New York State Assembly, Sheldon Silver, attacked a teachers' union proposal for an expanded New York City Board of Education that would have a majority appointed by the mayor. B3

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Music-Swapping After Napster
A precipitous drop in Napster's traffic in the past several weeks has been paralleled by explosive growth in competing, less centralized services, possibly posing a more formidable challenge to the music industry, which crippled Napster in court. A1

S.E.C. Nominee Testifies
Harvey L. Pitt, in his first public appearance since being selected to head the S.E.C., told senators that he would conduct a full review of agency rules and regulations with the aim of simplifying and reducing them. C1

Gloomy Prediction for PC's
Microsoft reported solid gains in quarterly revenue and operating profit, but it also said it expected the personal computer business to worsen further this quarter. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-8

Montgomerie Takes Lead
Colin Montgomerie had a six-under-par 65 for a three-stroke lead in the first round of the British Open. D1

OBITUARIES B7

Gunther Gebel-Williams
The animal trainer who became the star of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus was 66. B7

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The battle for Shays-Meehan; abusive trials in Egypt; Philip Taubman on Bush's ranch diplomacy.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E22
TV Listings E28
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (85%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CHARITIES (76%); STRIKES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); MURDER (75%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BRIBERY (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); SENTENCING (70%); PRISONS (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); RELIGION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); WRITERS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); SCANDALS (64%); TAX RELIEF (63%); SHOOTINGS (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%); TOM DASCHLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



523 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
The Risks and Rewards of Ranch Diplomacy

BYLINE:  By PHILIP TAUBMAN 

 BODY:
Act II of the most intriguing and potentially important diplomatic drama of George W. Bush's presidency will unfold this weekend in the Italian seaport of Genoa when Mr. Bush renews his unexpected friendship with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. 
 Last month in Slovenia Mr. Bush surprised even his closest advisers by transforming his initial meeting with Mr. Putin from a starched, carefully scripted exchange of views into a cordial and informal conversation. When it ended, Mr. Bush unhesitatingly told the world that Mr. Putin was "very straightforward and trustworthy" and that he had looked the Russian leader in the eye and "was able to get a sense of his soul." 
 "We share our love for our families. We've got common interests," Mr. Bush gushed. 
The effusive performance brought snickers from some veteran diplomatic practitioners, who wondered whether Mr. Bush, relatively unschooled in world affairs, had fallen for a calculated charm offensive by a man who loyally served the K.G.B. before entering Russian politics. The history of relations between Washington and Moscow is stained with the broken expectations of American leaders who thought they could unlock the humanity within Kremlin rulers. Dwight Eisenhower and John Kennedy found that personal chemistry didn't work with Nikita Khrushchev, and even Bill Clinton's warm embrace of Boris Yeltsin never yielded the predictable and stable relationship between the two nations that Mr. Clinton sought.
But there have been occasions when amicable personal relations played a helpful role, most notably during the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush's father. In the 1980's and early 1990's, Mr. Reagan and the elder Mr. Bush engaged Mikhail Gorbachev in a productive dialogue that was built in part on the friendship that the men developed. 
The historic diplomatic achievements of those years, including important arms control agreements, the peaceful unification of Germany and the Soviet military withdrawal from Afghanistan, were also made possible by the mutual trust that formed between the Soviet foreign minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, and two secretaries of state, George Shultz and James A. Baker III.
As George W. Bush heads into his next meeting with Mr. Putin, it is far from clear whether Mr. Bush can create an equally constructive relationship. It is always possible that Mr. Putin was insincere in their first discussion, but even discounting that, the question lingers whether one two-hour meeting could be sufficient to reach such an unclouded judgment about Mr. Putin's character and intentions.
Mr. Bush has great faith in his ability to read and relate to people, and he has often relied on his winning personality to help sell himself and his programs to the public. He may, indeed, have detected an honesty and set of shared interests with Mr. Putin that can serve as the foundation for a mutually profitable relationship, one that can be advanced by personal gestures such as inviting Mr. Putin to be a guest at his ranch in Crawford, Tex. Most Americans surely hope that is the case.
Yet the future of relations between America and Russia seems at least as likely to rest on more tangible factors. Here, too, the prospects for progress are unpredictable. Certainly, Mr. Putin's policy moves since his meeting with Mr. Bush in Slovenia have not been in keeping with the spirit of that encounter. In quick succession, he warned that Russia would rearm its missiles with multiple warheads if the Bush administration built a missile shield, his United Nations envoy blocked an American effort to modify sanctions against Iraq, and this week Mr. Putin signed a friendship treaty with China that commits the two countries to oppose many of Washington's international security policies.
These may be short-term maneuvers. But they demonstrate that national interests ultimately determine the course of diplomacy. When Mr. Gorbachev was the Soviet leader, national interests and historical forces set the stage for the agreements he reached with Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush's father. The Soviet economy was declining, Moscow's influence abroad was waning and Mr. Gorbachev was looking inward as he tried first to reform Communism and later to prevent the disintegration of the Soviet state. 
Today, democratic Russia is a weakened but still proud power, eager to hitch its economy to the West but wary of American domination and willing to oppose Washington when it believes Russian interests are threatened. 
If Mr. Bush hopes to make "some fabulous history" with Mr. Putin, as he told Peggy Noonan of The Wall Street Journal last month, he will have to pursue policies that offer some common ground for discussion. That means, among other things, remaining faithful to his stated commitment to work with the Russians in establishing a new framework for nuclear arms, including missile defenses, rather than brushing off Moscow's concerns. Mr. Putin seems ready to seek a compromise if Mr. Bush acts responsibly.
Mr. Bush's instinct to befriend Mr. Putin and to write a positive new chapter in relations with Moscow can be a powerful force in shaping American diplomacy, but only if Mr. Bush devises policies to match and keeps his administration, including the Pentagon, united behind them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%) TAUBMAN, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); SLOVENIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); AFGHANISTAN (72%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001 



524 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: THINK TANK; 
A Cold-War Weapon Disguised as a Place to Spend the Night

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL Z. WISE 

 BODY:
You may not have thought that dialing up room service or raiding the minibar was striking a blow against communism. But after World War II, when the cold war was being fought on every conceivable front, even luxuriating in a hotel tub could be considered a triumph for democracy. 
 At least that is the kind of logic that Annabel Jane Wharton documents in her new book, "Building the Cold War: Hilton International Hotels and Modern Architecture" (University of Chicago Press). "Each of our hotels is a little America," said the hotel king Conrad Hilton, built "to show the countries most exposed to communism the other side of the coin." 
 Ms. Wharton, a professor of art history at Duke University, says that in the initial postwar decades, these oases of comfort and architectural swank that sprang up throughout Europe and the Middle East embodied American utopia. The United States government was so convinced that Hiltons could bolster economic and political stability amid fears of Soviet expansion that in some cases it actually financed the hotels' construction through the Marshall Plan. Conrad Hilton recounted in his 1957 autobiography that the Departments of State and Commerce encouraged Hilton International to push its plan for a chain of hotels circling the globe. 
Similar to the grand 19th-century hotels constructed by such Western travel agents as Thomas Cook, Hiltons occupied the most prestigious sites in foreign capitals. But new Hiltons in cities like Istanbul, Cairo, Havana and Athens were carefully composed showcases of capitalism, extraordinary in their scale and modernity, Ms. Wharton writes.
Hilton compounds often resembled American suburbs, complete with lawn, shrubbery, swimming pools and tennis courts. Cheeseburgers were served and ice water was available on tap in every room. (In 1954, a hotel in Dijon, France, one-upped this peculiarly American amenity by piping Burgundy wines into its guest rooms.)
When Hilton opened a hotel in Berlin's western sector in 1958, he proclaimed that by building the dramatic new structure "we have hit upon a new weapon with which to fight communism." Ms. Wharton argues that Hilton wasn't simply exploiting the political situation for personal profit (although he got loads of that as well); he was a true believer. She terms the hotels a physical expression of America's belief in the truth and righteousness of its economic and moral values.
"Politics are embodied in the built environment just as they are in texts and movies," she writes, but architecture, like legislative action, has an impact even when viewers shift their gaze. 
The building of new Hiltons abroad coincided with a vast State Department embassy construction program meant to assert America's presence as a superpower through architectural modernism. The hotels' sleek designs -- featuring low-slung ceilings, plenty of plate glass and abstract decorative panels -- were essential to their allure. Gordon Bunshaft, the celebrated modernist architect who designed the Lever House on Park Avenue in Manhattan, also created the Istanbul Hilton with a Turkish architect, Sedad Eldem. It was perhaps the most aesthetically successful of the projects, deemed a "modern classic" by the architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable. In Athens, by contrast, the Hilton so dominated the view from the Parthenon that the architectural historian Vincent Scully Jr. denounced it as an act of vandalism after its opening in 1963. 
Many of the hotels were at first embraced by national and local governments who helped with their financing and considered a Hilton in their capital an emblem of prestige on the order of operating a national airline. The Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser was such a frequent guest that a former employee of the Nile Hilton Cairo told Ms. Wharton that Nasser had essentially used the hotel as his presidential palace.
Not all the hotels were exempt from local opposition, however. In Italy, for example, communist city council members repeatedly delayed construction of the Rome Hilton, while fears that a 200-room Hilton would blemish the rolling hills outside Florence led wealthy foreign villa owners to block it altogether. 
Even before the cold war ended, Hilton hotels had stopped broadcasting a clear-cut political message within a globalizing economy. In 1988, a year before the Berlin Wall's collapse, Hilton International Hotels was sold to the Ladbroke Group of Britain. The company is now just another worldwide chain, Ms. Wharton writes. The architecture itself has mutated, with most Hilton interiors undergoing drastic redesigns to keep pace with fashion. Often, this means the clean lines that once encapsulated 20th-century American style are obscured by ornate postmodern elements.
But the hotels' economic survival at least keeps faith with Conrad Hilton's capitalist zeal, even if the buildings no longer loom as the democratic emblems he originally had in mind.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture with the Think Tank column in Arts & Ideas on Saturday, about the United States government's backing of Hilton hotels during the cold war as a showcase for capitalism, was published in error. It showed the new Berlin Hilton, not the one that opened in 1958 in what was then East Berlin.
A picture with the Think Tank column in Arts & Ideas on Saturday, about the United States government's backing of Hilton hotels during the cold war as a showcase for capitalism, was published in error. It showed the new Berlin Hilton, not the one that opened in 1958. A correction in this space yesterday misstated the site of the earlier hotel. It was in West Berlin, not East Berlin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Conrad Hilton, shown in a 1949 photograph, viewed hotels like the Berlin Hilton as a way to display the benefits of democracy. (Sam Falk/The New York Times far left ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); COLD WAR (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LITERATURE (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); ART HISTORY (54%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (52%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (96%); THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); MARSHALL PLAN (55%)

TICKER: TCG (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (96%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: WISE, MICHAEL Z; WHARTON, ANABEL JANE; HILTON, CONRAD (1887-1979) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (76%)

TITLE: BUILDING THE COLD WAR (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



525 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Columbia University Hires Star Economist 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Trying to regain its old glory as a teaching and research center in economics, Columbia University has hired Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Stanford University professor often mentioned as a future Nobel prize winner for his contributions to economic theory.
 "Joe Stiglitz is one of the giant figures in economics of the last 50 years," Columbia boasted in a press release announcing the appointment, to be made public today. Mr. Stiglitz said that he shifted to Columbia mainly because of its "broad commitment to international economics," but also because his companion, Anya Schiffrin, a journalist, is a New Yorker. He is separated from his wife. 
 "One of the things that attracted me to Columbia was when I gave a series of lectures there and the audiences were in the hundreds," Mr. Stiglitz said. "That level of interest makes Columbia and New York very attractive."
Star economists in academia seldom shift universities, particularly if they hold professorships in top-tier schools like Stanford, and Mr. Stiglitz is clearly a star. As chief economist at the World Bank in the late 1990's, he took to jetting around the world, consulting with heads of state and ministers, and clashing with the International Monetary Fund over whether the austerity programs imposed by the I.M.F. on Southeast Asia and other developing countries did more harm to those countries than good. He found more harm.
As a Columbia professor, Mr. Stiglitz said that he would continue these travels, with the costs paid almost always by foundations or other groups, but by Columbia when necessary. "If the premier of China wanted to talk to me, I would be able to do it," Mr. Stiglitz said.
Such high-profile activity is bound to draw attention to the university's economics team. Until the 1960's, it had been ranked as top tier and it still includes several big names. But Mr. Stiglitz, who is 58, is the most prominent economist to shift to Columbia in more than a decade. His elaborate theories about imperfect markets -- left to themselves, markets rarely produce optimum results, his research found -- are now standard fare in economics courses.
Columbia tried unsuccessfully in 1998 to lure another star, Robert J. Barro, from Harvard University. The negotiations with Mr. Barro came apart after the financial package became public. The complex deal Mr. Barro had reportedly negotiated featured an eye-catching -- and for Columbia, embarrassing -- pay package of nearly $300,000, along with numerous perks and benefits, including a $55,000 university post for Mr. Barro's wife.
Harvard pushed to keep Mr. Barro, a conservative who has more faith in markets than Mr. Stiglitz, and he backed out of the Columbia deal.
Mr. Stiglitz said in an interview that he did not have to be lured. For professional and personal reasons, he sought to relocate to the Northeast from California. "After you have been in Washington and have been in international economics as I have in recent years," he said, "New York is just a very good place to be."
He had negotiated with Harvard and Yale University, but his preference was Columbia, he said. For most of the 1990's, he had been away from Stanford, anyway, serving in Washington as a member of President Bill Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, then as its chairman. He was chief economist at the World Bank from 1997 until December 1999, when he resigned. His contrarian views on austerity measures and bailouts had brought pressure from the Clinton administration for his departure.
For the last year he has taught mainly at the small campus that Stanford maintains in Washington. 
Burned by the Barro experience, Columbia officials refused to discuss Mr. Stiglitz's pay and benefits package. Mr. Stiglitz said that he would earn more than $200,000 at Columbia -- he declined to say how much more -- for the nine-month academic year, during which he will teach three courses. Stanford offered a similar salary for the coming academic year, he said. "The difference in pay and benefits at Stanford was actually very small." 
Mr. Stiglitz's salary puts him in the top 1 percent among academic economists, excluding those employed in graduate business schools. For them, a $300,000 salary, or more, is not uncommon. At Columbia, three schools will share Mr. Stiglitz and support his tenured professorship: the liberal arts college, the business school and the School of International and Public Affairs. 
Some universities pay an additional amount for the summer months, but Mr. Stiglitz devotes summers to projects financed by foundations, some of it research projects, and he has financing lined up, he said. 
Beyond pay and the standard health and pension benefits, Mr. Stiglitz will enjoy other perks. Columbia will pay the costs of a full-time secretary and the services of two graduate students serving as research assistants. Mr. Stiglitz and Ms. Schiffrin will move into a university-owned three- or four-bedroom apartment, with much of the rent subsidized by Columbia.
And Columbia will provide some of the office space for the Initiative for Policy Dialogue, a project that foundations pay for and Mr. Stiglitz directs. The project sponsors dialogues, often in developing countries, on policy issues of concern to these countries. "We went to Serbia," he said, "and talked about the lessons learned in privatization, so the failures would not have to be repeated."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph E. Stiglitz is often mentioned as a future Nobel prize winner. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); RANKINGS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WRITERS (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); RELOCATIONS (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; STIGLITZ, JOSEPH E (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



526 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Thriving Guatemala Shrimp Farm Sets Off a Conflict 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: CHAMPERICO, Guatemala 

 BODY:
In the waist-high estuaries that wind through the mangroves, bare-chested fishermen cast their nets only to haul them back empty. Crab traps with their plump bait lie untouched for hours. The desolate quiet is interrupted just by a few birds and the constant buzz of motorized pumps along the banks.
 Those pumps, fishermen complain, have been their undoing in a town that is barely scraping by. The pumps belong to a shrimp farm and suck water from the mangroves to nurture 54 corporate ponds that need to be flushed every 10 days as they raise shrimp for export. Other pumps release gallons of foamy brown organic waste from the ponds, residents say, leaving a bubbly slick covering parts of the estuaries. 
 Farm-raised shrimp have become a cash crop in Central America thanks to an almost unending appetite for them in the United States, Europe and Japan. What was once a culinary treat has become as common as salt and pepper shakers on tables. Guatemala has relatively few farms, but neighboring Honduras has become a leading exporter. 
Although the farm here, Camarones del Sur, is this town's biggest employer, it has since May also become the source of its biggest conflict, after two residents were killed by the police and the farm's guards in protests against the company.
Residents insist that the pumps and waste have depressed the water level, choked off oxygen and killed fish and that the security fences around the farm have blocked access to more bountiful waters.
"All the species in the mangroves are dying, and the water is at half its level," said Antonio Isolidarit Godoy Hernandez, who has been fishing more than 13 of his 27 years. "There is no life in the mangroves. Now there are no baby fish. With no reproduction, what little is here is over."
At stake is the balance between the rights of companies that invest in the shrimp farms and the needs of traditional fishermen who have found it increasingly difficult to survive. Officials who have participated in government-mediated talks to resolve the conflict said it also showed how a developing country's need to lure jobs and investment was often accompanied by lax enforcement of environmental regulations.
"You can do what you want here," an official in the talks said. "Everyone pollutes here, and no one says anything."
Environmentalists and residents insisted that the farms, which started appearing in Latin America about 20 years ago and have grown with aid from the World Bank, have destroyed mangroves and led to pollution and conflict, not just here, but also in Mexico and Honduras. Worldwide, the farms produce 40 percent of the total volume in shrimp, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, with many destined for the United States, Europe and Japan.
"These shrimp are produced for export, and the United States is a huge market where shrimp is the second most popular seafood after tuna," said Jacob Scherr, head of international programs at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "It is a huge multibillion-dollar business, and what you see in a sense is some of the poorest people in the world competing for the use of coastal resources with some of the richest consumers on the planet."
Executives of Camarones del Sur, or Camarsa, paint the opposite picture, saying they have followed industry trends and neither blocked access to the estuaries nor polluted them. Their ponds are on high ground, not carved out of the mangroves to take advantage of the shrimp's natural breeding environment. 
Company executives also said their sponsorship of a 550-student school for the town, as well as medical checkups for residents, exemplified their desire to be a good neighbor. Like the protesters, they insisted that they had been victims of violence, even though the police have not arrested any protesters. Several guards were arrested, however, after they shot and killed one person in the recent confrontation.
About the sole point of agreement between the company and its opponents is that Champerico is desperately poor.
"We have not restricted access to the estuaries at all," said Domingo Moreira, an American who is president of Camarsa. "It is sort of a complex issue gravely exaggerated by economic problems in the whole country and the region."
The poverty is evident along the potholed streets, where groups of men on wobbly bicycles rush up to greet drivers and make rapid-fire pitches for beach-front restaurants. People looking for bargains root through the piles of used clothing and shoes that are stacked on pickup trucks or at curbside. Near a dock that is a rickety mess, fishermen return from hours of work with barely anything to show.
The town once thrived on its port, where coffee and cotton were loaded and shipped until the 1960's. When that dwindled, many people, including children, began to rely on fishing in the abundant waters and the latticework of estuaries. 
Residents and environmentalists said pumping water from the estuaries to refresh the shrimp ponds had lowered natural levels and killed fish. They also said water discharged from the ponds was full of organic waste that has killed more fish.
Elmer Lopez, Guatemala's Greenpeace representative who has studied shrimp farms in Mexico, Honduras and Ecuador, said the warm water and soaplike scum in some estuaries indicated that the foamy runoff from the ponds was at fault. "It is very polluted, almost like the color of coffee in places," Mr. Lopez said.
The fences have added to the conflict, environmentalists and residents said, because in some places the fences come up to the banks of the estuaries, rather than 110 yards from the water's edge, a criterion that they said the law required. Until recently, stretches of the beach were fenced off and the remaining paths strewn with thorny branches, making it hazardous for barefoot fishermen to reach other waters.
"That shrimp farm has made martyrs of half of humanity," said Santos Pimental Avila, 74, a wiry grandmother who treks more than an hour along the beach to go fishing in the hopes of putting food on the table and money in her pocket. "They put thorns on the beach where I walk. They put up fences. They don't allow us to go to the estuaries. The way they are, if we don't get some fish, we don't eat, because there is no work."
Mr. Moreira of the shrimp farm said the lack of fish was a natural phenomenon that had hit the Pacific Coast for three years. He said the town was polluting the water, dumping sewage in a canal that fed into an estuary. The farm, he said, cleaned its water before discharging it. The government recently found that the estuaries were contaminated, but did not pinpoint a cause. 
"We welcome any objective party to test the water," Mr. Moreira said. "I am willing to tell you that if our water is not going back in clean, then I'll close the farm the next day."
He said the fences did not impede access to the water, but were to deter thieves, a constant problem for shrimp farms. But, he added, the site was exempt from the 110-yard rule, because the land was titled before 1957.
In May, residents gathered in the town plaza to rally against the farm. When the company sent its lawyer to meet them, the group wound up attacking him. Residents said he had provoked them by not responding to their complaints but resorting to legalisms. The police were called. One person was shot dead.
The federal government appointed a mediating commission to consider pulling back fences, restoring mangroves and building a fishing port and a road. But the talks faltered when, residents said, the company would not discuss the fences. Another protest was held in front of the company office, and another person was shot dead, that time by guards.
Since then, the town has been tense. Gonzalo Funes, the local representative of the human rights prosecutor, who had been involved in negotiations and was sympathetic to the residents' concerns, said armed men had gone to his house and tried unsuccessfully to enter.
"I think the company has been informal and irresponsible in the talks, with the implicit support of the government," Mr. Funes said. "It is a political and economic question. The farms are an economic power. Clearly, you risk your life when you touch these economic interests."
Mr. Moreira said some villagers were exaggerating the problems, manipulating neighbors and even paying protesters. "There are people who have an agenda of their own," he said. "One version is people want to acquire property in the area to build a port. There are others who complain they want to get fishing licenses, which are limited, and the way to do that is to promote violence."
Although many residents want to see the farm closed, others remain willing to negotiate.
"It would be practically impossible to remove the farm," said Camilo Jesus de Leon, who is active in the protests. "But if they want to use the land for ponds, they should drill wells and find their own source of water. The company says that means red ink for them. Yes, but what does it represent for us?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: A shrimp farm in Champerico says water it discharges to estuaries has been cleaned. The export company is the town's biggest employer. But fishermen complain about restricted access along the coastal area and a dearth of fish. (Photographs by David Gonzalez/The New York Times) Map of Guatemala highlighting Champerico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUACULTURE (92%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); SHELLFISH FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FINFISH FARMING (76%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (66%); RIOTS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; COASTAL AREAS; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FISH FARMING 

ORGANIZATION: CAMARONES DEL SUR (CO) 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA (95%); HONDURAS (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%) CHAPERICO (GUATEMALA); JAPAN; EUROPE; GUATEMALA; HONDURAS; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



527 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Istanbul Journal; 
Great Divide Widens As Economy Worsens

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, July 20 

 BODY:
A black Porsche Carrera swings to the curb and two doormen in tuxedos rush to open the doors for the driver, who is in wraparound designer sunglasses and his passenger, a young woman wearing a short red silk dress and improbably high heels. Whisked past the paparazzi, they disappear into Laila, a sprawling club on the Bosporus where the city's hip and rich party away the summer nights.
 Not far away, Unsal Akayoglu is pulling off his white jacket and ending another 12-hour day as a waiter in a sweltering traditional Turkish restaurant. He will take three buses home to the small apartment he shares with his mother. He pays almost half his monthly earnings of $160 in rent and can no longer buy meat or fresh fruit. 
 Istanbul is like many cosmopolitan cities with its mix of rich and poor. But as Turkey ends the fifth month of the worst economic crisis in its modern history, the gap between the wealthy elite and struggling poor is growing wider and more visible. 
The Turkish lira has lost nearly 50 percent of its value against the dollar, sending the purchasing power of average Turks plunging as accompanying inflation pushes prices higher at double-digit rates. 
Though Turkey is not prone to mass demonstrations, concerns have increased among political leaders about the potential for a social explosion as the poor watch the rich glide along seemingly unscathed, particularly in the country's showcase city.
Istanbul has long regarded itself as a first world city in a developing country. The Bosporus is lined with spectacular villas, and the best boulevards boast chic European shops and five-star restaurants. Affluent young Turks are educated at private universities here and abroad. 
But over the last three decades, the character of the city has been transformed by the arrival of millions of people escaping the impoverished villages of the Anatolian heartland. Instead of a haven of last resort, these internal migrants more often confront another empty dream of social mobility, without the skills or education to make a living. 
Even those with a job barely earn a living wage. Base pay for the majority of Turkey's workers is about $85 a month. Per capita income among Turkey's wealthiest 5 percent last year was $10,172 a year, compared with $396 for the poorest 5 percent. Instead of being kept out of sight as they are in many places, Istanbul's poor live in hovels with no running water, a stone's throw from mansions. Thousands of unemployed men line the Bosporus, fishing for their meal as yachts glide past. For every shiny Porsche, there is an old man pushing a cart heavy with scraps gleaned from garbage bins. 
"Turks live more intimately than people in the United States," said Faruk Birtek, chairman of the sociology department at Bosporus University. "The poor are much more visible because they live around the corner." 
One of the most popular new television shows follows two contestants trying to live on $85 a month. More often, however, Turkish television focuses on the lives of celebrities and the rich. Newspapers were filled with stories last week of a businessman who spent $1 million on a party in Istanbul to celebrate his son's circumcision. 
Ostentatious displays of wealth were once taboo in Turkey, so the differences were less obvious. Close-knit families also served as a safety net and psychological buffer against poverty. But many people left extended families behind when they moved to Istanbul, and the grinding poverty has brought new strains.
The Istanbul police reported a third more muggings in the first five months of this year than in all of last year, though the city is still regarded as safe. 
The country's president, Ahmet Necdet Sezer, vetoed legislation to reduce subsidies for tobacco farmers this month, saying it would cause too much added suffering. The military-dominated National Security Council discussed the potential for social unrest at a recent closed meeting, according to newspapers.
Laila's high-flying customers got a taste of social unrest on a recent Saturday. As the sports cars and limousines lined up to deposit their occupants, 20 young men appeared, chanting slogans. "The plunderers are here," they shouted. "Where are the laborers?" The club's security guards hustled them away.
Sefik Oztek, Laila's owner, was philosophical about the demonstration. "They once demonstrated outside Parliament," he said. "Now it's Laila, because this is where the power is." 
Mr. Oztek, 38, surveyed his domain from a banquette near the top of the multilevel club on the Bosporus. Seven restaurants, three bars, several huge video screens and countless speakers blasting music were arrayed before him. On a busy night, 4,000 people jam the club. Most pay a $16 cover charge, though V.I.P. cards were sent to 2,500 celebrities and big spenders before the season started in June. Prices vary at the restaurants, but dinner and drinks for two runs about $100. 
Mr. Oztek, who pays $1.25 million to rent the space for the summer, said the hard times have not hurt business. "People are conscious of the crisis, so we pay extra attention to prices and quality," he said. "But we offer a few hours of escape and relaxation."
The story is different at most restaurants in Istanbul. Managers of places in all price ranges said the devalued lira and economic uncertainty had cut revenues deeply.
"In the last six months, we have lost two-thirds of our clients," said Kazim Kaya, who owns the traditional restaurant in the Taksim neighborhood where Mr. Akayoglu works as a waiter. "My costs keep increasing," Mr. Kaya said, "but I can't reflect it in my prices. I don't want to lose any more customers."
Mr. Kaya, 38, knows the wages he pays do not allow his waiters to live comfortably. Sometimes he does not have the money to pay them on time, he said, and no one can afford to take time off, let alone have a vacation. 
Sitting at a small table in a corner of the mostly empty restaurant, Mr. Akayoglu, 46, was pessimistic. "This country is a third world country," he said. "They say it is improving, but it is not. We spend only on basic nutrition, just trying to live through another day." 
Distrust of the government is high. If elections were held today, no established party, including the three that make up the current government, would get enough votes to sit in Parliament, according to a recent nationwide poll. 
"You have extreme lack of trust in the state about anything getting better, and the economic insecurity for an overwhelming majority of society," said Hale Boratav, chairman of the psychology department at Istanbul's Bilgi University. "It's hard for people to be optimistic."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite Turkey's worst economic crisis in modern times, Laila, a sprawling club on the Bosporus, thrives as it caters to the hip and rich of Istanbul. Ostentatious displays of wealth are no longer taboo in Turkey.; To help support her family, a little girl, right, hauls a bucket filled with bottles of water for sale up a street in the Tarlabasi section of the city. (Photographs by Staton R. Winter for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SPORTS CARS (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (78%); HISTORY (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); LIVING WAGE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRENDS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) TURKEY; ISTANBUL (TURKEY)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



528 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Leaders Indicate They Are Set to Cut Output Again 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE with ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Leaders of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries indicated yesterday that they planned to reduce daily production for the third time this year to shore up flagging crude oil prices. Analysts said the decision could come as early as next week and would probably lead to a decrease of 750,000 to one million barrels a day, or 3 percent to 4 percent of OPEC's current daily output of 24.2 million barrels.
 OPEC's move would come in response to growing perceptions within international oil markets of an abundance of oil and other energy sources as economies around the world slow. 
 Speaking at a news conference in Bonn, Rilwanu Lukman, head of Nigeria's delegation to OPEC, said, "We stand ready and prepared to cut production by any amount that's necessary, when necessary, to bring the market back into balance." 
Indeed, any crisis OPEC sees differs vastly from that forecast by the Bush administration: the cartel believes there is too much oil on world markets. "The reason the situation is grave is that all sources of information lead us to believe that we are heading for a crisis," said the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, at the news conference. "That demand is diminishing, that supply is excessive." If OPEC is to buoy prices, "it should take drastic action to reduce production," he added. 
OPEC favors crude oil prices of $25 to $28 a barrel. OPEC tracks a so-called basket of seven benchmark oil prices worldwide, and it has said that it will reduce daily production if the average falls below $22 a barrel. The OPEC News Agency reported that the average declined 56 cents a barrel on Wednesday to $22.64.
Most analysts say the 10-member cartel needs to cut about one million barrels a day to increase the price of oil to $25 a barrel for any extended period.
Oil prices rebounded yesterday on the news of the expected cut. Crude oil for September delivery closed at $25.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, an increase of $1.16 from the previous day. 
Any reduction in oil to the United States will be felt only about 40 days after a decision to reduce production is made, as the petroleum makes its way from the Persian Gulf to United States refineries and, eventually, to gas stations. Asked if a production cut would affect stockpiles of heating oil, Jan Stuart, a senior oil analyst with the investment bank ABN Amro Inc., pointed out that inventories of heating oil this year are already higher than they were last winter.
Now that OPEC has made public its ruminations, it will have to move fast to convince oil traders that it can halt the price slide. The group's next meeting is scheduled for Sept. 26, but analysts expect OPEC members to talk by phone or convene shortly to authorize a production cut.
"I think they need to act quickly because the battle is really for market psychology," said Yasser Elguindi, an OPEC expert with Medley Global Advisors, a New York consulting and research firm. "I think they need to cut in the next week. And if it turns out they've cut too much, they can always add more crude later."
By reducing production by a total of 2.5 million barrels a day since the start of the year, OPEC succeeded in keeping oil prices around $25 a barrel for months. But over the last 10 days of trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil prices have fallen a precipitous $3.50 a barrel, according to the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting group.
Analysts said prices have plummeted because of a huge jettisoning of oil contracts by market speculators, mainly hedge funds, which have grown jittery about the slowing global economy. Recently, the International Energy Agency in Paris reduced its projections for oil demand for the year and the second quarter, citing the tepid performance of the world's biggest economies. In the United States, prices for natural gas and electricity have fallen. Inventories of gas, gasoline and crude oil are robust. Moreover, Iraq, which had withheld its oil from world markets for several weeks this summer, is now exporting about 2.2 million barrels a day, analysts said.
Taken together, the data suggested to oil investors that there was no energy crisis looming any time soon, and that oil prices would fall.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "COMMODITIES"Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since February 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); FUTURES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (73%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (80%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (80%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (80%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



529 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Who's in Running For Council Seat? Almost Everybody 

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
Dr. Kendall Stewart had a hammertoe waiting. He is a podiatrist by profession. He will fix whatever bothers the foot. He took a bit of time to talk politics, for he is running for City Council in the 45th District in central Brooklyn.
 Like who isn't. So is an elementary school teacher. So is a rent examiner. So is a college professor. So are several political aides. So is a beverage store owner. On and on. 
 You do all you can. In the compact waiting room of the Medical-Surgical Foot Center where Dr. Stewart works was a sign announcing the doctor's political aspirations and urging those waiting with afflicted feet to "please make a contribution for his campaign." 
Dr. Stewart said quite a few patients had chipped in money. Some, he acknowledged, were torn. After all, if he wins, they lose a doctor.
"I've been working in the community for the past 20 years plus," said Dr. Stewart, 50, pressing his cause. "I'm involved. I'm an advocate for the things that don't happen."
He spoke about education reform, and then had to excuse himself. The hammertoe.
In the new age of term limits, New York politics has truly become a lively participant sport. In few places of the city is that more vividly on display than in this largely West Indian, working-class district of 150,000 people, which sprawls across parts of Flatbush, East Flatbush, the Flatlands and Midwood. Here the Council contest sometimes seems about as congested as a one-day sale at Macy's. When someone knocks on your door, odds are it is yet another City Council candidate looking to sweet-talk for your vote.
Nine people have declared their candidacies, and others might still enter the fray. After the primary on Sept. 11, it could take days for the losers to conclude their concession speeches. 
With council members restricted to two consecutive terms, two-thirds of the Council seats are available this year, including that of Lloyd Henry, who is finishing his second term in the 45th District. Instead of the familiar two or three candidates in a race, many districts have five or six, and in scattered cases there are 9, 10, a dozen. Some candidates do not even know how many people they are competing against.
"I honestly don't know," said Ernest Emmanuel, 49, a rent examiner for the state and a candidate in the 45th. "At one point, I think it was 15. I suppose it looks good on your resume: City Council member."
Actually, council members are paid $90,000 a year, and can hold down other jobs as well.
Early on, something like 15 people did make rumblings about running. Nine filed petitions with the Board of Elections: eight for the Democratic primary in this Democratic stronghold, and Sal Grupico, a 66-year-old beverage store owner, on the Republican and Conservative lines. Independent candidates -- anyone can invent a party -- have until Aug. 21 to file petitions, and therefore more might join the fun. As Mr. Henry put it, "Everyone wants my seat."
No question. It's crowded. 
At this stage, it is anyone's guess who the front-runners are. In past Democratic primaries in the 45th, only about 8,000 voters have cast ballots. With so many competing, the vote could be so splintered that the margin of victory could be close to invisible. It's winner take all. The victor could prevail by 100 votes. Or 50. Or 1. 
The other day, Samuel E. Palmer, 54, was handing out leaflets outside the subway on Flatbush Avenue near Brooklyn College. He teaches at Public School 138. He is willing to leave the classroom behind if the voters will put him in City Council.
"I would never be doing this except for term limits," he said. "I am very active in the community and I see this as an opportunity to expand what I do."
A block away was a rival, Kevin S. Parker, 34, on leave as special assistant to State Comptroller H. Carl McCall. One more subway stop away was another rival, Anthony Alexis, 29, who recently resigned as legislative director for Councilwoman Tracy L. Boyland.
Another sweetener this election year is a new campaign law that matches funds at the rate of four to one for small contributions. This has made it easier for candidates to run. And thus the 45th has been the scene of endless breakfasts, barbecues and gospel concerts, as candidates have trolled for money.
Still, imprinting one's name on voters is not easy. "It's hard to have a debate," said Christian B. Hylton, 31, a candidate who has been the legal counsel for Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey. "If you ask a question and give everyone two minutes to answer, that's 16 minutes for one question."
And City Council races are rarely high profile. During some random walks through the district, several dozen people were asked who was running. No one could name more than one or two candidates. Most could name none. In fact, hardly anyone could even name his or her current council member.
Walter Garner, 65, a well-mannered retired mechanic, said he surely voted four years ago for the present representative, but he was stumped when asked his name. Nor could he name anyone in the current race. "Whoever wins, it doesn't matter," he said. "They do what they want to do, not what you want them to do."
In gauging how people will vote, one peculiar line of thinking was going around the district, which might be called Island Voting.
Most of the candidates, like many residents, have immigrated from one of the islands in the Caribbean. So the thinking is that nationalistic voters with bonds to Barbados might go with Samuel A. Taitt, 53, a communications professor at Kingsborough Community College who was born in Barbados. Those connected to Jamaica might opt for Jamaican-born Mr. Palmer. And so forth.
"If it works this way, I'd win," Mr. Emmanuel declared. He's from Haiti, the biggest island represented in the race. His wife is from Jamaica, the next largest. It should be pointed out that Mr. Emmanuel has been separated from his wife for years and that they are getting a divorce. But he said she supported him wholeheartedly in the race. 
Officially, the candidates play down the likelihood of many voters being silly enough to vote by geography, especially those candidates from the smaller islands. "We're talking about issues, not islands," Mr. Alexis said. He is from Trinidad, which is a fraction of the size of Haiti and Jamaica. 
Nonetheless, it is not unknown for candidates, upon meeting voters, to mention their island connections, direct and indirect. 
"You're Guyanese? So is my campaign worker here."
"Oh, you're from the Virgin Islands? My communications director is from the Virgin Islands."
Thus far, there have not been wide differences in the main issues the candidates have been speaking about -- things like housing, education, health care, immigration, economic development. "I don't think the candidates can be separated on issues," said Vaughan P. Toney, 46, a candidate who is on leave as Mr. Henry's chief of staff. "It's not like anyone is saying he's for less funding for education. It will be who will best represent them."
Mr. Toney and the other candidates who currently work in government have been stressing that it is important to know the system. The candidates who are not in the system are stressing that it is high time for an outsider.
Candidates have been hustling to round up endorsements. Mr. Toney, for example, has been endorsed by Mr. Henry. Dr. Stewart, who ran in 1997 against Mr. Henry, is a Democratic district leader and has the support of the party. Mr. Emmanuel has proclaimed the backing of Abner Louima, whose fateful encounter with the police occurred in the district.
Residents are being deluged with campaign literature. Mr. Parker, for instance, gives out a card with his name and picture above a handy list of all the days that parking rules are suspended in the city this year. "In the next two months, people will get more campaign literature than they ever have in their life," he said. Candidates are talking about ringing 2,000 doorbells, 5,000 doorbells, 20,000 doorbells. "I'll ring Lloyd Henry's door," Mr. Parker said. "I doubt he'll vote for me."
The clear long shot on Election Day is Mr. Grupico, the Republican candidate. "I don't know if a Republican has ever won in the district," he said. "I had trouble finding 200 Republicans to sign my petition. I think most of them are gone and dead."
Though he has never run for office before, he already has acquired the politician's unbridled optimism. "I think I can do it," he said.
The other evening, Samuel Taitt was hitting the sidewalks in East Flatbush, going door to door. Occasional rain spit from the skies. A Mister Softee truck crawled by, playing its hurdy-gurdy music.
Mr. Taitt came across some people who said they were definitely voting for Sam -- Sam Palmer. Then he came across some people who said they would vote for him. He came across a woman who a campaign worker said had signed his petition, but when he said, "So you've signed my petition," she said, "Did I? I've signed so many of them." 
He came across Errol Mitchell, who was relaxing on his porch, clutching a screwdriver. "Hi, how are you," Mr. Taitt said. "My name is Sam Taitt, and I'm running for City Council."
Mr. Mitchell said, "I think the field is too crowded."
"What you have to do is vote for the best candidate," Mr. Taitt said. 
"Based on what?"
"Based on who can best represent you."
"Sam, good luck," Mr. Mitchell said.
"Don't wish me luck," Mr. Taitt said. "Wish me success."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Kendall Stewart, a podiatrist and a candidate for City Council, has a sign in his waiting room soliciting contributions for his campaign.; Kevin S. Parker, now on leave as special assistant to State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, campaigning recently at a subway stop in Brooklyn.; Samuel A. Taitt, right, a professor at Kingsborough Community College and a candidate for City Council, campaigning door to door.; Samuel Palmer, a schoolteacher, stumping for votes in a grocery store on Utica Avenue in Brooklyn. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PODIATRY (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PETITIONS (68%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (63%) ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE) 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; STEWART, KENDALL (DR); TAITT, SAMUEL A; PALMER, SAMUEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



530 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Protester at Genoa Summit Is Killed by the Police
A 23-year-old Italian was shot and killed by the police during a riot near the meeting of leaders of the world's richest nations, who were protected by a fence that anti-globalization demonstrators had vowed to breach. Italian officials expressed sorrow at the death and questioned whether the venues for such high-level meetings should be reconsidered. A1

The leaders discussed health, debt and the poor -- the same topics that demonstrators complain that rich countries ignore. But progress was incremental and unlikely to defuse criticism that the wealthy nations worry about trade first, their own wealth second and everything else third. A7

In Israel, U.S. Monitors, Maybe
Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer said on Israel Radio that if international monitors were "forced" upon the worsening Mideast conflict, "I will live with the presence of the monitors of the Americans." Other officials sought to minimize the importance of his remarks. A1

Monitors Killed in Macedonia
Two international monitors and their interpreter were killed when their car hit a land mine, officials said. The monitors, a Norwegian and a Slovakian, were the first foreign casualties in the five-month conflict. The deaths came as tensions were rising between the government and Albanian rebels and peace talks appeared to be collapsing. A4

A Call for Order in Jamaica
Prime Minister P. J. Patterson, speaking two weeks after clashes between the police and gunmen in a section of West Kingston claimed 26 lives and prompted an inquiry, said no community was above the law. And he said the security forces would continue to root out guns and criminals in the impoverished areas of West Kingston. A4

Hong Kong Rebuff to Beijing
The former colony's highest court ruled against the government by finding that a 3-year-old boy born in Hong Kong to a mainland Chinese mother had the right to residency. The ruling was seen as a bold assertion of judicial independence from both Beijing and Hong Kong. A5

World Briefing A4

NATIONAL A8-11, 16

Death Sentence Upheld For Mexican Citizen
Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma turned down a request by President Vicente Fox of Mexico to commute the death sentence of a Mexican who was not told of his right to contact his embassy when he was arrested on murder charges. A8

Pushing for Deportations
Attorney General John Ashcroft said he was considering ways to force countries to take back their citizens who have served prison sentences in the United States. A9

Defending the Poor in Georgia
Lawyers held back a bid by trial judges and prosecutors to weaken a Georgia Bar Association proposal to revamp the state system for defending the indigent. A8

Alabama to Be Fined Over Jails
A judge said he would begin fining the state for every prisoner not moved from crowded county jails to state prisons within 45 days. A10

Making a Choice to Vanish
Experts say the amount of energy the authorities are devoting to finding Chandra Levy is unusual for cases of missing adults, in part because in most such cases, the persons choose to disappear. A1

The F.B.I. deemed the polygraph test taken by Representative Gary A. Condit in the Levy case useless. A10

Federal Judge Is Confirmed
The Senate confirmed the nomination of Roger Gregory, left, to the United States Court of Appeals. The lone dissenting vote was cast by Trent Lott, the Republican leader. A16

Seeking Backing on a Faith Bill
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is to meet with President Bush in hopes of building legislative support for a "faith-based initiative." A11

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Bipartisan Appeal on Stem Cells
Sixty-one senators, including 13 Republicans, sent letters to President Bush urging him to allow the use of federal dollars for research involving embryonic stem cells. A9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

New Jersey Moving To Aid Witness Reliability
Attorney General John J. Farmer Jr. said that in October New Jersey would stop letting witnesses and crime victims browse through books of mug shots in search of suspects. Rather, to cut down on false identifications without reducing correct ones, the state will adopt a technique called a sequential photo lineup, in which mug shots are presented one at a time in an order chosen by law enforcement officials, a method promoted by psychological research. A1

Defending a Business Venture
Stuart J. Roll, 68, the wealthy condiment entrepreneur, said his arrest Wednesday night on a felony charge of promoting prostitution at his Dix Hills home on Long Island was based on faulty assumptions. He said that rather than selling sex he was offering men a "sanctuary," "peace of mind" and fantasy. The police said Mr. Roll was doing a thriving business by luring men to his home through classified ads. Two people, a naked man and woman, were arrested along with Mr. Roll. B1

F.C.C. Said to Back Murdoch
Federal officials said the F.C.C. would approve Rupert Murdoch's bid to merge his News Corporation with Chris-Craft Industries and hold on to The New York Post and WYNW-TV, which are already in the Murdoch fold, and WWOR-TV, which belongs to Chris-Craft. B3

Beliefs B7

EDUCATION

Controls for Supervisors
New York City Board of Education employees being considered for promotion to a supervisory position will undergo more rigorous review of their personnel records, Chancellor Harold O. Levy said. B1

New Campus for Star Professor
Columbia University has hired Joseph E. Stiglitz, 58, a Stanford University professor and former chief economist at the World Bank, as part of Columbia's effort to regain its old glory as a teaching and research center in economics. C1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

OPEC Weighing Cut in Output
OPEC leaders indicated that they would reduce daily production for the third time this year to shore up flagging crude oil prices, which are hovering just above $22 a barrel. C1

Chrysler Trims Its Losses
DaimlerChrysler said Chrysler lost $125 million in the second quarter, a better performance than analysts had predicted because of stronger auto sales and gains from a turnaround plan. Chrysler earned $986 million in the period a year earlier. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A13

SPORTS D1-8

Montgomerie Hangs On
Colin Montgomerie of Scotland clung to his lead in the British Open, shooting a one-under-par 70 to stay one stroke ahead of Pierre Fulke. Tiger Woods is four strokes off the lead. D1

ARTS & IDEAS B9-18

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The Bloomberg factor; Congressional clash on education; Verlyn Klinkenborg on rural roads as markets.

Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B18
Crossword B17
Weather A16
Public Lives A8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); SENTENCING (88%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MURDER (78%); RIOTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); LANDMINES (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); JUDGES (67%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); DEPORTATION (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); APPEALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) HONG KONG (93%); MEXICO (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); CHINA (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



531 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Leading Indexes Drop as Microsoft Casts Long Shadow

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stock prices slipped yesterday under pressure from Microsoft, which led the three major market indexes lower with the warning that its sales and profits in the next quarter would be below previous forecasts.
 "Microsoft put a cloud over the market today with their cautionary statements and their earnings," said James L. Luke, the director for growth equity investment at BB&T Asset Management. "A lot of analysts are finally facing up to the fact that even though the economy is probably in the bottoming process, we don't know yet where the recovery process starts." 
 Microsoft's news created a downward ripple in other technology issues, particularly in the personal computer industry. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 17.22 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 2,029.37. It fell 2.7 percent for the week. 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.35 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 10,576.65. For the week, however, it was up 0.4 percent.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,210.85, and it fell 0.4 percent for the week.
Shares of Microsoft -- which also said it expected a decrease in demand for personal computers -- fell $3.39, to $69.18.
Other software makers felt the effect of Microsoft's downbeat assessment. PeopleSoft fell $1.73, to $34.08; Check Point Software was off $4.49, to $35.42; Avant lost $4.68, to $10.45, and Nuance Communications dropped $3.73, to $14.96.
Shares of personal computer makers also slumped, as Gateway joined Microsoft in forecasting decreasing PC demand.
Gateway plunged $3.60, to $10.99, after it posted a larger second-quarter loss than Wall Street expected. The company also lowered its profit forecast for the remainder of the year.
Dell Computer, which on Thursday stood by its profit forecast, dropped 49 cents, to $27.89.
Semiconductor stocks were among the day's notable decliners. PMC-Sierra dropped $4.07, to $27.24, after reporting a 37 percent quarterly revenue decrease. Vitesse Semiconductor and Xilinx also reported lower revenues; Vitesse fell 73 cents, to $17.94, while Xilinx lost $2.97, to $37.90. Among other chip stocks, Linear Technology dropped 97 cents, to $42.61, and Altera dropped $1.31, to $29.34. 
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index fell 15.88 points, or 2.7 percent, to 574.30.
Two bright spots were eBay and Sun Microsystems. Shares of eBay rose $2.40, to $66.80, after it posted sales that beat analysts' expectations by about 10 percent. The company also reported a profit of $24.6 million, or 9 cents a share, well ahead of the 3 cents analysts had expected.
Sun Microsystems, which reported its first quarterly net loss in 12 years, rose 59 cents, to $15.03, because its operating earnings beat analysts' estimates by a penny.
Oil company stocks were lifted along with oil prices after some members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said they would probably cut production as demand for oil decreased. Texaco rose $1.55, to $67.05; Chevron advanced $1.80, to $88.95, and Exxon Mobil rose 28 cents, to $43.36.
Investors also saw the pharmaceutical industry as a safe haven. Shares of Amgen were up $1.22, to $60.71; Ivax rose 76 cents, to $41.06; Schering-Plough gained 52 cents, to $38.64; and Abbott Laboratories rose 68 cents, to $52.28.
Analysts said that despite the negative tone on Wall Street, the overall health of the market was strong. With most second-quarter earnings reports already out, the release of hearty economic data earlier in the week and the hope that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates when it meets on Aug. 21, better days may be ahead, some analysts said.
"What's different this time is that it's the professional that has had the knee-jerk reaction to the ongoing pressure, and the individual investor has had the fortitude to hang in there and take the longer-term view," said Robert N. Phillips Jr., president and chief investment officer at Walnut Asset Management.
"We are very optimistic about the future," he said. "We think we're in the early stages of putting in a very meaningful bottom and hopefully a new bull market will emerge."
In the bond market, Treasury bond prices declined. The 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to a price of 99 5/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.11 percent from 5.10 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 3/32, to 97 23/32. The bond's yield was unchanged at 5.53 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); EBAY INC (81%); BB & T ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); VITESSE SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (52%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); EBAY (NASDAQ) (81%); VTSS (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (81%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



532 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Summit Leaders Pledge Money to Fight Diseases
After protests in Genoa, Italy, leaders of the world's biggest economies sat down for the first time to discuss health, debt and the poor -- the topics that demonstrators have complained that rich countries ignore.
 The leaders announced that about $1.2 billion had been committed to a United Nations Global Health Fund that will fight AIDS, and other infectious diseases, following through on a commitment made at the summit last year in Okinawa, Japan. Page A7. 

F.C.C. Considers Chris-Craft Deal
The Federal Communications Commission has decided to approve the News Corporation's purchase of Chris-Craft Industries and waive rules that would have forced the combined company to sell either The New York Post, WYNW-TV or WWOR-TV, according to senior government officials. The commission's five members are in the process of finalizing an order that approves the merger with virtually no conditions, according to the officials. They said the decision is expected to be announced Monday after it is voted upon. B3.

Microsoft Warning Upsets Markets
Stock prices slipped under pressure from Microsoft, which led the major market indexes lower after it warned that sales and profits in the next quarter would be lower than previously forecast. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 17.22 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 2,029.37. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.35 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 10,576.65. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,210.85. C3.

Insurer Stops Selling Credit Life
American General, seeking approval of its pending $23 billion purchase by American International Group, has decided to stop selling a type of life insurance that consumer activists say is merely a tool for stripping the equity out of poor people's homes. C3.

Conflict-of-Interest Lawsuit Settled
Merrill Lynch & Company has agreed to pay $400,000 to settle a claim by a former client that the brokerage company's Internet analyst recommended a stock without disclosing a conflict of interest. C4.

Philip Morris Report Stirs Outrage
A report Philip Morris presented to the Czech government that argues that smokers save the state millions of dollars by dying prematurely has done little to dampen public enthusiasm for smoking cigarettes. C2.

Weak Sales and a Loss for Ericsson
Ericsson, the Swedish phone equipment maker, said that a sharp decline in sales for its handsets contributed to a second-quarter loss. "Weak market conditions for our industry persisted in the second quarter," the chief executive, Kurt Hellstrom, said. "Many of our customers have delayed spending on network expansion and in some cases postponed contracted deliveries. We cannot predict how long this situation will prevail as we have yet to see signs of improvement." C2.

Samsung Profit Decreases
The semiconductor crisis caught up with Samsung Electronics in the second quarter of this year, though the company's success in other fields besides chips held off the kind of losses its competitors had. C2.

California Debates Utility's Future
California legislators were working late into the night to reach a compromise to aid the nearly bankrupt Southern California Edison. No deal was reached, however, to help the state's second-largest utility pay its debts. The utility's parent, Edison International, reported an 89 percent decline in second-quarter earnings, a bigger drop than expected. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows Nasdaq Composite daily closes since Jan. 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,576.65 down 33.35Nasdaq composite -- 2,029.37 down 17.2210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.11% up 0.01The euro -- $0.8714 up 0.0001The dollar -- 122.94 yen down 0.41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); TOBACCO MFG (84%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); SMOKING (77%); CREDIT INSURANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); MERGERS (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); INSURANCE (71%); PROFIT WARNINGS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); LITIGATION (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (81%); NEWS CORP (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (65%); CHRIS-CRAFT INDUSTRIES INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (81%); ERIC.A (STO) (81%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (NASDAQ) (71%); NWS (ASX) (71%); AIG (NYSE) (65%); 8685 (TSE) (65%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (88%); JAPAN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



533 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Loss Isn't as Deep As Expected 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 20 

 BODY:
DaimlerChrysler said today that its Chrysler unit lost $125 million in the second quarter, a better performance than analysts had predicted because of stronger auto sales and gains from a turnaround plan. Chrysler earned $986 million in the period a year earlier.
 The second-quarter performance, which translated to 148 million euros, was markedly better than that of the first quarter, when Chrysler lost $1.2 billion. 
 In February, DaimlerChrysler officials said they expected a loss as high as $2 billion at Chrysler for 2001, with the company breaking even next year, and becoming profitable again in 2003. 
While the company has not yet revised its earnings projections, Dieter Zetsche, Chrysler's chief executive, told analysts this morning it was likely that Chrysler would beat its cost-cutting targets for 2001. "We are doing very well on the cost-reduction side," Mr. Zetsche said in a conference call. "We are committed to our forecast for year-end and confident we will deliver accordingly."
Seeking perhaps to damp expectations that the worst is over at Chrysler, company officials warned that the third quarter could be difficult. It is traditionally the weakest quarter of the year for auto companies, because plants are shut for vacations and for changing over to the new model year. This year, too, the United States industry is awash in incentives that have pushed up marketing costs.
"They're not out of the woods at all here," said Stephen Girsky, an auto analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Indeed, second-quarter net income at DaimlerChrysler fell 58 percent, to about $681 million, or 713 million euros, including a one-time gain from the sale of its Temic automotive electronics unit. But even that drop was better than forecasts, which had put DaimlerChrysler's net at just under $200 million.
Excluding the gain, DaimlerChrysler's second-quarter earnings fell to $453 million from $1.52 billion. Revenue dropped to $35.1 billion from $38 billion.
In February, DaimlerChrysler's chief executive, Jurgen Schrempp, embarked on a $3.9 billion three-year recovery plan that called for job cuts of 26,000 at Chrysler and another 9,000 at the Japanese automaker Mitsubishi Motors, where DaimlerChrysler owns 37.5 percent. The company is also trimming 9,000 jobs at the Freightliner Corporation, its troubled heavy-truck business.
Today, Mr. Schrempp said DaimlerChrysler was on track to post an operating profit for the year of $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
A main reason is the fledgling recovery at Chrysler. Compared with the first quarter, auto sales rose 160,000 vehicles, while inventories declined, as did marketing costs. In the second quarter, Chrysler's spending on advertising was 17 percent of revenue, compared with 21 percent the first quarter. Chrysler's cash on hand, which plummeted last fall, setting off its financial crisis, rose to $4.81 billion in the second quarter from $3.6 billion in the first quarter.
Mr. Girsky said that much of the second-quarter improvement stemmed from these factors, far more than cost-cutting. He said the impact of the Chrysler turnaround plan -- which includes price cuts on auto parts, reduced spending on new vehicles and slimmer payments to dealers, along with the job cuts -- had yet to flow to the bottom line.
"They'll get the savings, but spread out over a longer period," Mr. Girsky said. When questioned by analysts, Mr. Zetsche declined to define specific areas of improvement. "I don't think I'm in a position to split the development between volume and cost-reduction effects," he said.
Though cautioning against raised expectations for the current quarter, Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler's auto sales should be helped by the new version of the Dodge Ram pickup, due in September. Analysts say a strong start for the vehicle is critical, but are concerned because Ford Motor and General Motors have rolled out fat incentives on their pickups this summer -- in what Mr. Zetsche called "the truck wars."
Along with the Chrysler improvement, DaimlerChrysler's results were bolstered by a 10 percent increase in profits at its Mercedes-Benz unit, which earned about $700 million. Mercedes recently introduced a new version of its small C-Class sedan to good reviews and strong sales.
In commercial vehicles, including Freightliner, DaimlerChrysler's profits sank to $108 million from $353 million. Mr. Schrempp said the company was drafting a turnaround plan for Freightliner that would be rolled out this fall.
Shares of DaimlerChrysler rose 97 cents each, to $50.15. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); INVENTORIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FREIGHTLINER CORP (62%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: 7211 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (89%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE; SCHREMPP, JURGEN E; ZETSCHE, DIETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



534 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: GENOA SUMMIT MEETING: THE FIRST LADY; 
Laura Bush Enjoys Globalization's Lighter Side

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: PISA, Italy, July 20 

 BODY:
Because her plane had to land in Pisa anyway, Laura Bush took a detour from her duties today to get a close look at the Leaning Tower of Pisa.
 A few yards away from the marble monument, which began tilting almost as soon as it was finished in the 14th century, she stopped in her tracks, stretched out her right arm and tilted her hand at an angle. 
 "Is this the spot where you stand if you want to help hold it up?" she asked, with a girlish giggle.
Seconds later, she was more serious. "It is beautiful," she said. "Very beautiful." 
Petite, tidy and capable of smiling through endless rounds of picture taking, the quiet librarian from Midland, Texas, struck out on her own today, able -- despite frequent questions about whether she likes her role as first lady -- to have a good time. 
By the end of the day, Mrs. Bush was laughing about her tour of the Pisa tower, a cumbersome affair with dozens of security people, tripping photographers and gawking tourists, many of whom had no idea who she was.
"It was new for me," she said. "It was the first time that I have been to a major tourist attraction in this role." 
Six months into her husband's presidency, Mrs. Bush remains one of the most low-key first ladies in recent history, in sharp contrast to her predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was in the headlines almost daily during her first year, from stories about the cost of her hairdresser to her role in developing health care policy. 
But Mrs. Bush, who wears drugstore makeup and simple suits, seems determined to chart her own course. She has said that she will not speak out on an assortment of policy issues, only those she feels she knows.
As her husband attended a Group of 8 summit meeting in Genoa, she turned to her own passions, teaching and reading.
On the first leg of her trip from London, she visited the Aviano air base north of Venice to encourage United States military personnel to go into teaching when they retire. After her stops in Aviano and Pisa, she visited a reading program at a Florence hospital.
She seemed at ease in both places, shouldering into a cluster of eager young soldiers who wanted their picture taken with her or popping soap bubbles to entertain children in the hospital.
She said she was most struck by an Italian doctor's description of reading to children to help them with pain. "It is common sense when you think about it, that reading would be a distraction, but I had never heard of the idea." 
"You do get new ideas on these trips. It's a chance to learn."
Mrs. Bush said that she particularly liked the overseas travel that went with the job. For one thing, it gives her a chance to meet and talk with "a very small club" of people whose lives resemble her own. 
"What I have enjoyed most is meeting my counterparts," said Mrs. Bush, taking a break in the art room of the hospital. "We have so much in common. Everyone has children and everyone is trying to make sure that they are O.K. There is a lot to share."
She said she learned that in Poland, the concern for the safety of leaders' children extends to the point of not allowing them to be photographed. 
Mrs. Bush said that she and Cherie Booth, wife of the British prime minister, Tony Blair, have been discussing doing some work together because both have an interest in the issue of breast cancer awareness. 
She is planning to spend a private weekend in Florence with her daughter Barbara before rejoining Mr. Bush on Sunday in Rome. 
"We could shop," she said. "But I think we will be eating. That's the thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Bush, posing in Pisa yesterday, became a tourist attraction herself. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); TOURISM (68%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CHILDREN (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (72%) DALEY, SUZANNE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (88%) ITALY

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



535 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: For Aspiring Americans, New Hope and Concern 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: SOCORRO, Tex., July 19 

 BODY:
The old military barracks in this farming town just across the Rio Grande from Mexico are empty except for a room where seven students are studying to become American citizens. The instructor, Vincent Ramirez, moves quickly from the War of 1812 to the Civil War before segueing to a familiar subject, immigration.
 Mr. Ramirez, 50, who became a United States citizen in 1972, asks his students about the possibility that the Bush administration would allow millions of illegal Mexican immigrants to earn legal status, and everyone seems pleased. Yet when Mr. Ramirez questions how such a policy would be carried out, how so many people could be processed in an orderly manner, his skepticism brings knowing nods. 
 "I do believe that Bush is trying to do something right," Mr. Ramirez said. "But he's just got to set his plan up right, something logical. We're talking about millions and millions of people who are going to be coming out of the closet." 
The non-word in vogue in Washington and Mexico City is "regularization," as in the need to bring clarity and coherence to immigration policy along the border. But even as there is hope along this stretch of the border near El Paso that President Bush, as a former Texas governor, will bring a unique understanding to the issue, people know too well that life here is rarely regular.
The complications and contradictions of immigration policy are on full display here. Families can often be divided between those who are legal and those who are not, and the same government that is now considering granting legal status to millions of illegal immigrants has also armed agents at the border to keep more from coming in.
The news that Mr. Bush is considering ways to help illegal Mexican immigrants thrills many people. But others express concern that there are not enough jobs, that any new promises of legalization will bring more chaos to the border, not less. 
In fact, the old barracks and the lives of the people who come here for help provide a history lesson in the failings of past efforts to grapple with Mexican immigration.
The barracks once served as a processing center for thousands of Mexican farm hands as part of the bracero guest worker program that ended amid charges of exploitation in 1964. And several of the students in Mr. Ramirez's citizenship class were among the millions affected by the last major initiative intended to stem illegal immigration on the border -- the amnesty program passed under President Ronald Reagan in 1986.
"It's one of those things that is always happening here, and we're just used to it," Mayor Raymond Caballero of El Paso said of the vagaries of immigration policy, while endorsing any plan that would allow illegal immigrants to earn legal status. 
In the El Paso area, across the Rio Grande from sprawling Ciudad Juarez in Mexico, a policy jolt came in 1993 with the crackdown by the United States Border Patrol known as Operation Hold the Line. Before then, people flowed back and forth across the Rio Grande with only mild interference; a bus even carried maids from Juarez to houses in El Paso. The lack of resistance also made it easy for criminals and smugglers.
But the huge buildup of border patrol officers stamped out much of the illegal foot traffic and, as a result, many Mexicans simply stayed illegally on the American side.
Maria de la Torre, then seven months pregnant, fled Mexico in the early 1990's and now finds herself in a fairly common tangle in the immigration process. She and her two oldest children are illegal residents; her two youngest children, born in the United States, are citizens.
Ms. de la Torre, who volunteers at a community center in the barracks complex, applied for citizenship in 1996 with her sister, a legal resident, as her sponsor. Five years later, she is saving money to pay for physical examinations with a doctor chosen by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Meanwhile, she and her husband have separated, and she supports her children by working as a maid. She regarded the news that the Bush administration was looking for ways to legalize millions of Mexicans like herself as a godsend.
"I am hoping and praying that it will come true," she said, speaking through a translator. 
Another woman at the community center, who gave her name only as Maria, illustrated the potential complexities of any new immigration program. Her husband, a construction worker, became a legal resident as part of the 1986 law that created general amnesty for illegal immigrants who could prove residency for four years and offered special amnesty to farm workers. Maria sneaked across the river nine years ago with their children to join her husband.
But her own immigration efforts have been entangled. When her father became ill, she went to Mexico. When she tried to return after his death, she was detained twice, placing a violation on her record. She returned to El Paso on her third trip, but now she says she must fill out a form to clear her record -- at a cost of $175, a large sum for her -- to apply for citizenship. 
Maria said she took comfort in the fact that Mr. Bush had emphasized compassion, and she hoped a legalization program was instituted. "I believe that Bush believes that families should be together," she said.
Carlos Marendes, director of the Border Agricultural Workers Center, which offers support services for migrant farm workers, said that those considering any new policy should learn from failings in the past.
Perhaps the most famous immigration policy for Mexicans was the bracero program for farm workers that began in the labor shortages of World War II. This guest worker policy funneled Mexican field hands to American farms for limited periods. Ultimately, the program brought complaints of exploitation, low pay and poor working conditions. This year, a class-action lawsuit was filed in California seeking hundreds of millions of dollars on behalf of thousands of Mexican farm workers who claim they were bilked out of part of their earnings.
Mr. Marendes said much of the next generation of Mexican farm workers gained legal status under the 1986 amnesty program. But that policy's other goal -- reducing the tide of illegal immigration -- failed.
"If they want to solve the problem," he said, "they have to do an amnesty that is humane, that is flexible and that is fair."
The I.N.S. estimates that there are now 6.5 million to 7.5 million illegal immigrants in the country, including roughly 3 million Mexicans. There are no current figures, but a 1996 study showed that about 700,000 illegal immigrants lived in Texas. 
Peter Maldonado, 70, a native Mexican who became a United States citizen during the 1986 amnesty, worries that the number of illegal residents is even greater and that the promise of citizenship would bring waves more across the Rio Grande.
"If they get it right, it's O.K.," Mr. Maldonado said. "But is there an opportunity for them? Are there jobs?" 
Mr. Ramirez, the citizenship teacher, said he believed Mr. Bush was uniquely qualified to address the Mexican immigration problems, but he worried about the unintended consequences of any new policy.
He said unemployment was already acute in El Paso and along the border, where many legal residents live in ramshackle developments. He also questioned how a bureaucracy that takes 18 months to 3 years to complete the citizenship process could handle a sweeping legalization program. "And we're talking about three million people they are trying to get legalized?" he asked. "Come on. You've got to have some sort of plan set up. Like the braceros. They promised all those things and never got it."
One student, Yolanda Chairez, a legal resident, has a cousin in California who was detained, jailed and awaits deportation to Mexico. Ms. Chairez said a legalization plan would "help a lot of Mexicans who don't have their rights yet and would protect them from abuse."
But no one thinks it will be easy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria de la Torre, right, in Vincent Ramirez's citizenship class in Texas, is "hoping and praying" for a plan to give residency to illegal immigrants. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); MAYORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); REFUGEES (77%); AMNESTY (71%); FARM LABOR (69%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) YARDLEY, JIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%) MEXICO; SOCORRO (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



536 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: GENOA SUMMIT MEETING: THE OVERVIEW; 
ITALIAN PROTESTER IS KILLED BY POLICE AT GENOA MEETING

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 20 

 BODY:
A 23-year-old Italian protester was shot and killed today by a police officer during a riot less than two miles from a gathering of leaders of the world's largest industrialized nations, who were protected by a 13-foot fence that anti-globalization demonstrators had vowed to breach.
 The killing in Genoa, a medieval seaport converted into a 21st-century citadel, is the first death during an anti-globalization demonstration since the movement tempestuously surfaced at a World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in 1999. Today's grim milestone deepened an already widespread feeling that these kinds of international conferences -- and the vast and often violent protests they inspire -- cannot go on unchanged any longer. 
 "One hundred thousand people don't get upset unless there is a problem in their hearts and spirits," President Jacques Chirac of France told reporters shortly before he was informed of the death. Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, who is host for the summit meeting, began the morning session by suggesting that the venues for such high-level meetings be reconsidered. 
After hearing about the demonstrator's death, Mr. Berlusconi, his face ashen, appeared alongside President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi of Italy, letting him speak for both of them about their sorrow over the death. 
Vittorio Agnoletti, head of the Genoa Social Forum, an umbrella association of more than 700 anti-globalization groups gathered in Genoa to protest the summit meeting, called tonight for the immediate suspension of the sessions. Today for the first time, the Group of 8 leaders discussed health, debt and the poor -- exactly the topics that demonstrators have complained that rich countries ignore. Page A7. 
Today's several thousand protesters could multiply into tens of thousands on Saturday after calls today for demonstrators to show their anger over the death by marching through the city.
Mr. Agnoletti deplored the violence of a small group of protesters who undercut the main demonstration by looting, burning cars and battling the police and also condemned the use of firearms by the police to combat them.
Tonight, Italy's interior minister, Claudio Scajola, issued a terse statement confirming that Carlo Giuliani, 23, a Roman who lived in Genoa, was "hit by a shot from a gun," and saying it was fired "in self-defense by one of the police."
The policeman who shot him was hospitalized, police officials said, for injuries sustained in the fighting.
According to Dylan Martinez, a Reuters photographer who captured some of the scene on film, the victim was one of several young men who had surrounded a police van and were smashing it with rocks, metal rods and other weapons. He said the man had been shot by a policeman and then his body run over by the vehicle.
Italian television repeatedly showed grisly still shots of Mr. Giuliani, his face masked by a balaclava, hurling a fire extinguisher at a police van, then a close-up of a hand inside the van firing a pistol in return. A third photograph showed the man lying on the ground beneath the van, seemingly as if the police vehicle had run over his legs after he fell.
It was not clear today why the riot police were armed with live ammunition. The police in Seattle and in Quebec last spring had been equipped with air-guns that shot a powerful but nonlethal rubber pellet, the size of a large marble. In Genoa, the police used water cannons, riot sticks and tear gas today. 
Tonight, after scenes of burning cars and tear gas dominated television images broadcast from the summit meeting, the White House issued a terse statement saying President Bush had been informed of the situation. It quoted Mr. Bush as saying, "the death is tragic," and that the violence was "highly regrettable."
As in previous demonstrations -- from Seattle to Gotenberg, where a man was shot and badly wounded by the Swedish police -- a small number of more radical youths, bent on battling the police, instigated a form of violence that most demonstrators did not condone.
That rift was clearly evident in Genoa, where demonstrators, who range from Catholic Scouts to Turkish Communists, today fell into three groups, coded by their appetite for confrontation by color.
There were so-called pinks, pacifists who include gay groups, but also many Italian and foreign labor associations, church groups, and other anti-globalization associations. There were "whites," bound by their desire to fight the Group of 8 with "civil disobedience" that they define as defiance and self-defense. Lastly, there were "blacks", anarchists and other fringe rebel groups that have no patience for organized marching. Today, they wore black scarves and masks and broke windows, burned cars and fought with the riot police.
The police responded by chasing demonstrators into a neighborhood cafe where regular customers were waiting out the violence, then tossed a tear gas pellet into the bar area. A demonstrator who tripped when running away was kicked and hit repeatedly with riot sticks before being dragged away for arrest. At least 70 people were detained by the police.
More than 100 people were slightly wounded, including several dozen police officers. At least two people were seriously wounded: a young woman who is in a coma and a police officer who was operated on for an injured eye.
The day began with greater expectations. Late this morning, several thousand "whites" -- including groups that included an Italian association called White Overalls, as well as Greek Socialists, British members of the Socialist Workers Party, French Communist youth groups and others -- had gathered at a stadium-turned-camping ground, a few miles from the summit meeting area. They pulled on makeshift foam rubber shields, life jackets, bicycle helmets, goggles and soccer shin guards in anticipation of a scuffle with the more than 16,000 police officers deployed to prevent protesters from disrupting the summit meeting. Most had the phone number of a lawyer scratched in ink on one arm. 
"Our goal is pretty clear," Michael Probsting, 24, an Austrian, yelled gleefully into a megaphone to fellow members of the Revolutionary Communist International, "We want to stop the summit of the G-8."
The goal of anarchist protesters was different. Bank windows and storefronts were smashed and businesses looted. Two blocks from where Mr. Giuliani was killed, and a few hours earlier, a group of men broke into a car rental agency, smashing windows, scattering credit card forms and burning two cars.
"We disagree with those people who throw bricks and burn cars; we yelled at them to stop," said Manuel Morales, 31, a Spaniard from Grenada who was with a smaller groupbut left when anarchists began looting next to him. "It's terrible," he said. "They are helping the police. Now the police can say they had a pretext to attack."
Other marchers showed their dismay by turning on the violent demonstrators. When one young man, wearing a mask, kicked in a gas station window that had already been smashed, marchers screamed, "Provocateur!" and chased him into a nearby doorway.
Thousands of marchers who were headed for the so-called red zone -- a six-square-mile high-security area -- were pinned down and cornered a mile away by the riot police, shooting tear gas and banging riot sticks on their shields. Others fought the police in side streets, hurling stones and firebombs, weeping from tear gas. Asked what group he was with, one young protester about to throw a stone replied, almost indignantly: "I'm an anarchist. I'm not in any group."
But their actions upset organizers who had sought to keep a distance from violent groups.
"This is bad," Christophe Aguiton, a leader of the French anti-globalization group Attac, said as he ducked into a doorway to avoid tear gas. "There are people who want to use this movement to do their own thing, but they are borderline hooligans."
At the same time, around 4 p.m., other demonstrators at the Piazza Dante, about 300 yards from the Ducal Palace, the Renaissance building where the leaders met, shook the steel gates of the barricade sealing off the red zone so hard that they broke. One woman slipped into the red zone, where she was immediately grabbed by heavily armed policemen and carried away. Nearby, Mr. Bush's limousine, with flags and presidential seal, stood parked.
Today's protests were in line with the increasingly violent demonstrations that began at the Seattle trade summit meeting two years ago -- a meeting that failed less because of the demonstrators than because of a rebellion by developing nations that believed that another round of free trade negotiations would hurt their workers. With each summit meeting this year, the demonstrations have grown louder, and more violent, and in some ways more effective.
Even before the summit meeting began, both Mr. Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain expressed irritation with demonstrators' views of Western capitalism. The agenda inside the Ducal Palace, which included a meeting with the leaders of Nigeria and Bangladesh, was clearly intended to demonstrate that the wealthiest nations were not fixated only on their own slow economic growth in the last year. 
But tonight, issues of third world debt and unfettered capitalism were not foremost on many protesters' minds. "I think tens of thousands of us are very angry," Mr. Probsting, the Austrian protester, said as he prepared for Saturday's march. "Tomorrow, we can't be naive and wait for the police to fire cannons of tear gas. We have to be better prepared to defend ourselves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Riot policemen, at top, stormed past a protester who was shot and killed by the police during rioting in Genoa. At left, a protester threw a firebomb at the police. At right, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, President Bush and President Jacques Chirac of France at the opening of the G-8 summit meeting. (Associated Press); (Dylan Martinez/Reuters); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Just before he was shot, a protester, Carlo Giuliani, tried to hurl a fire extinguisher at a police vehicle in Genoa as an officer aimed a pistol.; The police vehicle then backed up and ran over his body, changed gears and sped from the scene. Italian TV repeatedly showed the photographs. (Photographs by Dylan Martinez/Reuters)(pg. A7) Map of Italy highlighting area where protester was shot: A protester was fatally shot less than two miles from the talks. (pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (71%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (68%); FIREARMS (65%); TRENDS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%) GROUP OF EIGHT; GENOA SOCIAL FORUM (ORGN) 

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (88%); JACQUES CHIRAC (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); TONY BLAIR (51%) STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; SANGER, DAVID E; GIULIANI, CARLO; CIAMPI, CARLO AZEGLIO (PRES); BERLUSCONI, SILVIO (PRIME MIN); AGNOLETTI, VITTORIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) ITALY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



537 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: States Steer Religious Charities Toward Aid 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

DATELINE: NEWPORT NEWS, Va. 

 BODY:
Despite the resistance that President Bush's religion-based initiative has encountered in Washington, the idea is already catching on in many states, where local officials are making unprecedented efforts to encourage religious charities to apply for government money.
 At least 15 states, including New York and New Jersey, have appointed government liaisons who are brokering new collaborations between clergy members and state social service departments -- two constituencies that previously enjoyed little contact or trust. 
 Even more states are holding conferences to introduce religious leaders to the arcane rules of government contracting, and judging by attendance, the interest is intense. More than 150 church and community leaders attended a daylong seminar here in southeastern Virginia on the pros and cons of seeking public money and how to go about it -- 1 of 10 forums that Virginia is offering this summer. 
The friendly talk in the states about a new era of partnership between government and religion seems a world removed from the constitutional questions and partisan wrangling in Washington, where the president's proposal has been a magnet for controversy over whether it threatens the separation of church and state. On Thursday, the House narrowly passed the initiative despite criticism that it would allow religious ministries that receive government money to practice employment discrimination. And yesterday, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman said he would work with President Bush in shaping a version of the bill that the Senate could support. Page A11. 
The states have not needed to wait for Congress to act in order to redirect money to religious social services. Since 1996, when the federal rules known as charitable choice were passed as part of the legislation overhauling welfare, states have been required to make it easier for religious groups to win contracts to run social service programs.
But until recently, states remained lukewarm to the idea. A report issued last year by the Center for Public Justice, a Christian policy group in Annapolis, found that most states had virtually ignored the charitable-choice laws. It was not until the presidential campaign, when both Mr. Bush and Vice President Al Gore said they favored expanding government support for religious charities, that the approach started to gain wider acceptance. Mr. Bush, one of few governors who actively directed state agencies to finance religious programs, made expanding charitable choice a priority. 
Now, after five years of hesitation, states are diving into new relationships with religious ministries, many with good intentions but little experience either as government contractors or as social workers. 
"The faith community in this country is no little bitty body of folk," said Anthony McClarn, the faith and families coordinator for the Department of Human Resources in Georgia, who like several state liaisons is also a minister. "And once this thing is moving -- and it is moving -- you can't say you're going to stop it." 
"You can go into any part of the country, and if there's not a conference for faith leaders going on, there's one scheduled," Mr. McClarn said.
"This is something new," said Stanley Carlson-Thies, who helped develop the charitable-choice provision and now works in the White House Office on Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. "States are asking, how do we enlist and empower these groups that haven't been part of the traditional mix of services that government sponsors?"
For years, the dominant charities affiliated with religious groups -- the Salvation Army, Catholic Charities USA, Lutheran Services in America and Jewish Family Services -- garnered the lion's share of public money that went to religious charities. That domination will most likely be challenged by the newcomers, state officials said. 
New religious coalitions and individual churches that never before applied for government financing are starting to do so, said state officials and university researchers who are monitoring the law.
These are not churches simply looking for government support for soup kitchens. They are seeking financing for job training, juvenile delinquency prevention, mentoring, abstinence and sexuality education, housing and economic development.
State officials say there is no way to quantify how many religious groups have recently applied for government money and how much they have received. They say the process is too decentralized -- the sources of financing too varied and often controlled at the county level -- and it is frequently hard to tell whether a program is linked to any religion. 
In addition to the 15 states that have appointed faith liaisons, in recent months, several governors have ordered state social service agencies to carry out the federal guidelines. Within these states, some counties have done more than others. For example, in Long Beach, Calif., there is now a bilingual child care program jointly sponsored by a church and a university; in El Paso County, Colo., headquarters to scores of national evangelical ministries, a coalition of about 100 churches received a government contract to act as mentors to former welfare recipients. 
In the cities, 121 mayors have appointed liaisons to religious groups, some of them recently, and 37 other mayors said they intended to appoint such liaisons soon, according to the United States Conference of Mayors.
One reason for the action now is that after five years of reducing the welfare rolls, states are finally able to turn their attention to the law's charitable choice provision.
Kevin R. Richards, Colorado Works director with the Department of Human Services, said: "Colorado's initial focus, like most other states, was reduction of caseload. Now we're in our Phase 2 approach, which is tending directly to charitable choice." 
So far, the debate reverberating in Washington has ensnared a few states. California is being sued for setting aside money expressly for religious social services. Texas was sued for financing a job training program that required students to study the Bible -- a program the state has since stopped financing. And Wisconsin is being sued for giving $750,000 to a Milwaukee program that says it brings homeless addicts to Christ.
Charitable choice guidelines say a "faith-based" program may offer religious teaching to clients but not require it. However, it may be difficult for state agencies to police the boundaries. In Philadelphia, several Muslim clients complained last year when a church-run job retention program financed by the state required them to read from the Bible. A supervisor from the state's welfare department was called in, and he made sure the Muslims could choose alternative readings from the Koran and National Geographic. 
At the seminar in Virginia, as a roomful of ministers and grant writers scribbled notes, Jane M. Brown, liaison for Virginia's Community and Faith-Based Initiative, set out to shatter what she called Myth No. 1 -- that the government has set aside a fat new pot of money for religious charities. Instead, religious groups will have to compete with other community agencies for the same limited funds, she told them. 
But in encouraging tones, she explained that under charitable-choice rules, the government would not require them to dilute their religious missions in order to receive money. They can share their faith with their clients, as long as they do not make it a requirement. They can use religious criteria in hiring, she said, as long as they do not discriminate on the basis of age, race or gender. 
A sobering note came from some religious leaders, who stood to warn colleagues that it was far more onerous to get money from the government than from a church board. The government can scrutinize your methodology, your staff's qualifications and your building for safety and health regulations, they warned.
"If your church is going to use government funds, you've got to play by their rules, and I'm proof of that," said the Rev. Alfred A. Terrell, whose Macedonia Baptist Church is receiving money from Virginia's education department to work with children suspended from schools. "Really do your homework before you jump into that soup, because it gets real, real hot real fast." 
In the past, word of mouth like this has discouraged religious leaders from government involvement. But many at this conference said they were prepared to jump through the hoops because the financing amounted to more than they could raise passing the plate. Most had already started programs and were looking to professionalize and expand. 
"I'm encouraged," said the Rev. Johnny L. Cook, pastor of Morning Star Baptist Church, who wants to develop a mentoring program for the impoverished children he got to know at his church's free Sunday breakfasts. "I'm going to get my paperwork in order to get some more help for my kids. Our church sure doesn't have the money to fund it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jane M. Brown is the Virginia liaison responsible for linking religious charities to government aid in her state. (Gary C. Knapp for The New York Times)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHARITIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHURCH & STATE (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CHARITIES LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); TRENDS (69%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; STATES (US); PHILANTHROPY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) GOODSTEIN, LAURIE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001 



538 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: We're Not in Oz Anymore 

BYLINE:  By Diane Cardwell; Diane Cardwell is a reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
 INSIDE RIKERS
Stories From the World's Largest Penal Colony.
By Jennifer Wynn.
223 pp. New York:
St. Martin's Press. $24.95.
 Every day, it seems, we are bombarded with images of crisis from the nation's penal system. Stories about hellish conditions, draconian sentences, physical brutality and the neglect of rehabilitation saturate the news media. Even prime time television feeds the frenzy, with supposedly realistic dramas like "Law and Order," "100 Centre Street" and "Oz." 
Into this landscape comes "Inside Rikers: Stories From the World's Largest Penal Colony," by Jennifer Wynn, who is director of the Prison Visiting Project for the Correctional Association of New York and teaches writing at the jail; she also edits its inmate magazine. Wynn first made contact with a Rikers Island prisoner when she was a freelance journalist with a headful of middle-class preconceptions. Here, she sets out to humanize this dehumanized population and expose the jail's -- and by extension society's -- wrongheaded approach to men who break the law. 
Like Wynn herself, we first meet Angel, a charming, nonthreatening con artist who has had his share of difficulties, but with Wynn's assistance becomes one of her success stories. By book's end, he has transformed himself into a functioning member of society and is thrilled, on his 50th birthday, to have landed a steady $23,000-a-year job. In a chapter titled "Convicted at Birth," we meet Rico, a 19-year-old whose deeply unstable, economically disadvantaged upbringing practically ensured, in Wynn's telling, that he would land at Rikers. Then there is Mike, a talented storyteller and origami artist who, despite the privilege of being white and middle-class, cannot escape a ferocious crack habit that continues to buffet him from Rikers to homelessness and back again. 
Interwoven with these characters are discussions of the great divide between New York's ultrarich and ultrapoor, descriptions of how the prison population is overwhelmingly black and Latino, and discourses about the fact that many inmates come from single-parent homes in poor communities that lack basic social structures and services. None of these observations are revelatory, but seeing how socioeconomic inequality, the aftershocks of lingering racism and shortsighted corrections policies play out in these men's lives gives this book emotional power and political relevance, particularly at a time when the penal system is lurching ever more toward punitive warehousing at the expense of rehabilitation. 
Wynn points out, for example, that addicted inmates, rather than being put into a drug detoxification program, are funneled into methadone maintenance, which has the effect of sending them back into their communities, once they are released, still shackled to a drug dependency. As one inmate writes: "I could have used jail time to kick the habit and get a sober perspective on life, but I never got to the point where I was able to 'say no' to dope. It's far more difficult to make the decision to be drug-free if you haven't had a drug-free day in years."
Wynn illuminates many counterproductive practices, and, at its best, her book shows how economic deprivation, bad schools, absent parents, deteriorating neighborhoods and dissolving job prospects can grow into petty criminal activity or drug addiction and how that, inevitably, inexorably, leads to jail. Wynn demonstrates, time and again, how the taint of a jail term forever dooms these men to be defined by their "single worst deed" and to be sucked into a sadly preventable vortex of recidivism. 
Unfortunately, "Inside Rikers" is marred by the misguided inclusion of Wynn's own narrative of transformation from a naive, privileged outsider to a humble-yet-knowing social worker, a narrative that is as cliched as it is irritating. Visiting the South Bronx with a man who runs a program dedicated to helping teenage felons turn their lives around, Wynn is taken aback by how barren and racially segregated the housing projects are, and dismayed to see that even a pathetic, dusty patch of grass has a sign to keep off. Her first reaction is to think of her own comfortable upbringing. "In a high school of 800 students, there was one black," she writes with the kind of gee-whiz condescension that infects many of her observations. "And you can't buy a piece of property unless it's on five acres of grass, much less walk on it." 
At another point, she writes of Frank, an urban Robin Hood who rationalizes his thievery as justifiable payback for a society that has deprived him of the means for success: "I admire the Franks of this world, and as I travel home from Rikers Island, noticing how the city gets cleaner and whiter with each mile closer to Manhattan, I ask myself how they do it, how they live such wretched lives in the richest city on earth, mired in the underclass yet still finding it in their hearts to take care of little boys without fathers and bring flowers to their teachers, when most people -- certainly me, I know -- would have given up long ago, or been too embittered to care."
Far better simply to let Frank, who has spent a good part of his 39 years in and out of correctional facilities, speak for himself, as he does in a letter to the author. "I wonder again for the hundredth time why I continued with my criminal activities," he writes. "It certainly wasn't worth it. I had $300 in my pocket when I was arrested. I live simply, and I give away much of the proceeds from my hits. 'Wealth redistribution' is what I call it. But Jennifer, in answer to your question as to why I continued to steal . . . perhaps it was only to show that I could." Free from the cloying guilt of the newly empathetic do-gooder, the men's stories, like Frank's, stand as eloquent and damning testimonies to the cycle of jails and lives gone avoidably wrong and our inability to break it. 

Author's Query
For a memoir of growing up in Wainscott and other places on the South Fork of Long Island, I would appreciate hearing from residents of Quogue, Montauk or anywhere in between from the late 1950's to the early 70's.

Geoff Gehman
Arts Writer
The Morning Call
Box 1260
Allentown, Pa. 18105
Geoff.gehman@mcall.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PRISONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); MEN (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); LITERATURE (65%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); COCAINE (62%); RACE & RACISM (60%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (56%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: CARDWELL, DIANE; WYNN, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: INSIDE RIKERS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



539 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Eyes Instead of Theories 

BYLINE:  By Sarah Kerr; Sarah Kerr, the film critic for Vogue, writes regularly about Latin America.

 BODY:
 LOOKING FOR HISTORY
Dispatches From Latin America.
By Alma Guillermoprieto.
303 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $25.
 It's not often that you want to thank a writer for the things she doesn't do, but such is the case with Alma Guillermoprieto. For over a decade now, first with her reporting in The New Yorker and later in The New York Review of Books, Guillermoprieto has set the standard for elegant writing in English on Latin America. In large part she has done so through an almost heroic avoidance of the bad habits that too often dog people who bring us the news from foreign parts. She is wonderfully lucid, for example, but without the airless certainty of someone writing for an audience of think tanks or insider colleagues. Though capable of exquisite, self-conscious prose, she doesn't treat her self-consciousness as a theme, and thus avoids sweeping into a country V. S. Naipaul-style, passing irritable judgment and dramatizing her despair at the mess she finds. Nor, though she possesses extraordinary empathy, does she wrap up chaotic Mexico City or troubled Bogota in a bow and try to sell it to you as if it were Tuscany or Provence. 
Above all Guillermoprieto is subtle: in fact, the task she sets for herself with "Looking for History," her second collection of essays (after "The Heart That Bleeds," and also after "Samba," her rich account of a year's immersion in the culture of Brazilian dance), is so subtle that you could almost call it radical. Guillermoprieto simply looks at various Latin American situations and describes what she sees, in reported pieces on Mexico's Zapatista rebels or the pope in Cuba, and in witty essays on iconic figures like Evita Peron and Che Guevara. Her goal, she writes in the introduction, is to "render visible to U.S. readers some of the more hidden and enigmatic aspects of Latin American history and conflict." 
Those accustomed to books with a catchall, high-concept thesis may wonder: Where's the Big Idea? Where have these countries been, and which way are they headed? But if Guillermoprieto fails to oblige on this score she does so deliberately, with a higher purpose in mind. Too many Big Ideas have hung around Latin America for decades -- fantasies, sprung from the minds of Latin demagogues and myopic United States policy makers alike. "Looking for History" wages understated battle against most of them, from old-style socialism to anti-Communism-at-any-cost to the war on drugs and the latest fashionable mantra declaring, with admirable intentions and reductive simplicity, that a clean election once every few years is the same thing as a healthy democracy. 
Elections are a necessary first step. But what exactly have they accomplished in Colombia, which advertises itself as Latin America's oldest democracy even as a deadly doubles match rages across the land, teaming drug cartels and guerrillas against the army and paramilitary vigilantes? Guillermoprieto's three reports from Colombia are easily the most important in this collection. No factor in the country's predicament, from its weird and trackless topography to its history as a base for smugglers of emeralds and pre-Columbian artifacts, escapes her attention. Actors on all sides of the conflict come in for devastating blame and a small dose of sympathy. Guillermoprieto considers Rosa, a leftist kidnapping victim who ends up like Patty Hearst, fighting passionately alongside her rightist paramilitary captors. Then there is the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (the FARC), the leading guerrilla group, whose headquarters Guillermoprieto once visited by trekking across an icy swamp high up in the Andes. She characterizes the FARC as uncharismatic and out of touch -- and also among the most ruthlessly effective insurgencies in the world. 
As for United States aid to Colombia, which increased under Bill Clinton and which George W. Bush has pledged to continue, Guillermoprieto is skeptical at best. Though the Pentagon insists that the money will go toward disabling the drug trade, common sense would indicate that Colombia's army might prefer to use it to wipe out the guerrillas. This might be effective in the short term, but Guillermoprieto can't help recalling the sorry denouement of similar episodes in the past in which a fragile peace was won "by use of force, leading to exclusions that lead to more violence." 
The Colombia pieces are dense reading, weighted with a kind of ethical thoroughness, as if Guillermoprieto wanted to create a lasting, essential primer. She basically succeeds, but elsewhere it's nice to hear her voice range more freely. In Cuba, to assess the impact of the pope's first visit, she notes odd details of injured pride and raw-nerved accommodation to scarcity. In one of the book's more inventive passages she reads the collective mind of the generation of Cubans who are the same age as Castro's reign -- just slightly younger than America's Baby Boomers but equally prone to imagine themselves protagonists of a grand history. She revisits their boundless pride in Fidel as children, their paranoid loyalty during the Mariel boatlift of 1980, their nervous deference in 1989 as Castro charged a leading hero of the Revolution with treason and had him killed. Landing in post-Soviet, increasingly isolated times, she finds the old cultish confidence replaced by a cultish despair. "This is a new adventure: Cuba, this beloved and fragile vessel, will ride out the ominous storm. With Fidel at the helm, there is no cause for fear, and yet you are, for the first time, unconsolably afraid." 
At such moments, Guillermoprieto gets at the truth the way a psychological novelist might. Indeed, she may be at her most authoritative when studying the emotional pressure points of Latin American politics -- the way machismo helped to corrupt Che Guevara, for instance, and the ease with which justifiable cynicism can turn into a "longing for false certainties" and then surrender to a would-be hero. 
This is not a comprehensive survey. Several marquee news stories, (Elian Gonzalez, the dramatic fall of President Alberto Fujimori and the Lori Berenson case in Peru, the arrest and threatened trial of Chile's Pinochet, to name a few) are not addressed here. But Guillermoprieto may be at her best away from headlines anyway. She does a fine job retracing the top-level assassinations that led the Mexican news throughout the 1990's, and she makes the now iconic trip through the Chiapas jungle to interview the Zapatista rebel leader Subcomandante Marcos. 
Shortly before last summer's presidential election Guillermoprieto sat down with the history-making eventual winner, Vicente Fox, who likes to wear cowboy boots and conducts politics like a business, "delegating tasks, making important decisions quickly and sticking to a schedule." Sound familiar? Her entertaining account reinforces some of the eerie similarities that have been pointed out between Fox and George W. Bush, but reading it one is confronted, too, with the profound difference: that even people who disagree with Fox ideologically can celebrate his victory as a step forward for Mexican democracy, whereas the circumstances of Bush's victory permit no such shared civic joy. 
Yet the tone in the dispatches from Mexico feels somewhat distant. Vivid as Guillermoprieto is on the assassinations and machinations, she is dealing necessarily in speculation. I sometimes wished she had skipped the political news and brought her precise, aware brand of wisdom to life away from the news. And much as I admire her subtlety, I found myself hoping she would be a little less evenhanded and say more straightforwardly what she thinks. 
The problem may be a matter of time: too much happening in Mexico too fast to digest it all. Whatever the case, when Guillermoprieto speaks her mind -- in a particularly strong essay, for instance, on Mario Vargas Llosa, the brilliant novelist who ran a disastrous campaign for the Peruvian presidency in 1990 -- she speaks with power. Vargas Llosa the politician lost, Guillermoprieto writes, because he ignored everything Vargas Llosa the novelist knew of his country. His rigid economic platform, promising "reforms that look orderly on paper but are not designed to deal with chaos," utterly failed to connect with Peru's poor. His arrogant faith in reason proved utterly irrational, and in his naivete he opened the door to the opportunistic demagoguery of the victor, Fujimori. 
Here, in distilled form, is the dare Guillermoprieto throws out to Latin America. (And to the extent that the United States has its hand in the pot, she issues the challenge to us as well.) Keeping out the demagogues will take more than mere elections, or the paying off of loans. It will take something like a realignment of consciousness: facing up to a deeply compromised reality and cultivating realistic hope.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (63%); DRUG POLICY (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: KERR, SARAH; GUILLERMOPRIETO, ALMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%) LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (92%); CUBA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: LOOKING FOR HISTORY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



540 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Gaul Divided 

BYLINE:  By Mark Mazower; Mark Mazower is a professor of history at Birkbeck College, London.

 BODY:
 FRANCE
The Dark Years, 1940-1944.
By Julian Jackson.
660 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $35.
 In 1939 there was only one France. Within a year, Julian Jackson notes, it had given way to no less than six distinct zones of occupation. Defeat by the German Army led to the country's territorial division and administrative disintegration. By 1943 at least three governments claimed to embody French sovereignty: Marshal Philippe Petain's Vichy, Gen. Charles de Gaulle's in London and Gen. Henri Giraud's in Algiers. Hardly surprising, then, that according to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, France had ceased to exist. In "France: The Dark Years, 1940-1944" Jackson, a professor of history at the University of Wales, Swansea, charts this story of the fragmentation and eventual reconstitution of the French nation-state, emphasizing the various political forces that emerged to speak for the country, the myths they spun and the visions of national well-being that held them in thrall. 
This book is an exhaustive synthesis of scholarly research, memoirs and diaries. It is difficult to imagine that anyone else will now feel the need to bring together in a single volume the mass of material that has been published over the past half-century on France's wartime experience. What makes Jackson's account particularly useful is that it traces both the prewar roots of wartime developments and the postwar reverberations -- the trials, purges, films and novels. Vichy and the resistance thus emerge clearly as part of the longer run of French history. 
For instance, the contempt for parliamentary democracy widely associated with Vichy turns out to have been shared by many within the resistance as well. On questions of population decline, immigration policy and the welfare state, continuities of ideas, and even personnel, were evident. Vichy itself was, in Jackson's words, "both legal and legitimate" in its birth, and in its frequent ministerial changes rather reminiscent of the system it claimed to have superseded. In fact, the prewar republic was never formally renounced by Marshal Petain; the "Marseillaise" continued to be played at official ceremonies (though not in the Occupied Zone). Premier Pierre Laval's policy of French-German collaboration, Jackson observes, owed not a little to his precursor, Aristide Briand, and anticipated, in turn, the postwar Schuman Plan.
The war years also saw the creation of a national police force, a nationalized film industry and a huge popular expansion of athletics -- all of which continued after liberation. Far from cutting modernist culture off at the knees (the notion that modernism fled during the war from a benighted Europe to a welcoming Manhattan is a myth), wartime France was a place where 
Le Corbusier entertained hopes of architectural renewal and where Picasso published luxury art books. Seeing the war in this way helps us understand how Francois Mitterrand, to take but one example among many, could move smoothly from being a junior civil servant in Vichy to a rising Socialist star of postwar French politics. 
Jackson is good at showing all this, but finds explanation harder. He stresses that many of these developments had little to do with Vichy itself, which had difficulty controlling even the institutions and organizations it deliberately set up. But because his approach is largely political, Jackson does not spend much time examining the social and economic forces that were also shaping the country. Consequently, this is mainly a book about politicians old and new, their ideas, activities and groupings, to a degree that may exhaust the reader who is not up to speed on the difference between Briand and Caillaux, or between Darnand, Doriot and Deat. These men were all important, but we are also introduced to a multitude of minor figures. Eventually, the accumulated prosopographical detail swamps truly important events, like the extraordinary exodus during the summer of 1940, which saw millions of people take to the roads to flee the German advance. This led "to a total disintegration of social structures," according to the author, but the consequences of this flight are not shown.
Jackson, like most of his predecessors in the field, has relatively little to say about the Germans, British and Americans. Their importance -- no, their determinative role -- is too obvious to deny. Yet for all the attention devoted to endless French minor players, major figures who are not French are kept firmly offstage. Between Goebbels's mischievous suggestion in 1940 that the Germans would turn France into "a greater Switzerland, a country of tourism . . . and fashion" and the Nazi atrocities carried out in 1944 is a story of France as seen and ordered around by its masters in Berlin. But historians of France remain as entranced by the mystique of France as the characters they describe. They write as if the resistance on the one hand and de Gaulle on the other really did embody France and hold her fate in their hands. Jackson is far too good a historian really to believe that, but the awful weakness of the country -- the true profundity of the national humiliation it endured in these years -- remains veiled by his concentration on what Frenchmen (and to a much lesser extent Frenchwomen) did. Often, in truth, it did not much matter.
Describing the liberation, the author eschews generalization for what he calls a series of microhistories, "departement to departement, valley to valley, village to village." The kind of approach that, one is told by experts, should be applied to wines and cheeses is here turned into historical method. With good reason, to be sure, since national fragmentation reached its apogee at this point in the war. Nevertheless, there is a striking contrast between the loving detail given to locale and region, and Jackson's unwillingness to set France in a broader context. When he does this, as in a comparison of France and Denmark that points out the peculiarities of the political settlement that embodied Vichy, the results are illuminating. Much of what France went through cannot be understood divorced from the larger picture. Patterns of collaboration and resistance, German military behavior, ideas about the future -- all of these ran across the borders of Hitler's New Order. 
This book bears impressive testimony to the depth of France's postwar conversation with itself about what it endured during the war, but it brings out as well the introverted, even provincial, character of that conversation. At the beginning of the 21st century, it is still hard for European historians to see themselves, and their subject, as part of something called Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LITERATURE (74%); HISTORY (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); POPULATION DECLINE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); NATIONALIZATION (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); POLICE FORCES (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: MAZOWER, MARK; JACKSON, JULIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); WALES (79%)

TITLE: FRANCE: THE DARK YEARS, 1940-1944 (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



541 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2257 words

HEADLINE: Glory Road And Its Storied Past 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE CURTIS; WAYNE CURTIS, a freelancer, lives in Eastport, Me.

 BODY:
NOSTALGIA comes in dozens of forms, some subtle and some not. The least trustworthy kind is always shiny and bright -- think of those overly restored diners whose walls are adorned with 45 r.p.m. records, where sandwiches have names like "The Big Bopper." It's nostalgia as marketing tool, and when someone's trying to sell you something, the sense of place often dies in the sales pitch.
 So it was with a bit of trepidation that I recently set out to drive 260 miles of historic Route 66 across parts of Oklahoma and Texas, taking two days in one direction and doubling back on a third. No highway has been more thoroughly gift-wrapped in nostalgia. Blame it on John Steinbeck's "Grapes of Wrath" (he dubbed it the "mother road"), or on that inescapable Bobby Troup song -- the one about getting your kicks. Route 66, which this year is celebrating the 75th anniversary of its creation, has become an enduring American icon. 
 The highway lost its official U.S. route designation in 1985, but the road (two lanes for the most part, four lanes in some places) has persisted through inertia and the efforts of enthusiasts. Much of the surviving highway between Chicago and Santa Monica, Calif., has been given the quasi-official designation of Historic Route 66, marked with signs to help modern pilgrims trace large chunks of the old Mother Road. 
The tourist traffic has not gone unnoticed by the emergent Route 66 industry, which churns out decals, T-shirts and shot glasses for sale at themed restaurants and gift shops that crop up along much of the highway. That's not to say Route 66 is one long, linear gift shop -- happily, there are still vast, open expanses where the spirit of the original open road comes through.
One of those stretches is between Oklahoma City and Amarillo, Tex. This region of endless vistas and few services doesn't often top lists of vacation destinations, but that's part of the appeal. It's mostly devoid of touristy claptrap, and somewhere between the two cities you abruptly pass from an Eastern landscape to a Western one. It's as if the curtains have parted on a grand proscenium. And that exhilarating sense of arrival, it seems to me, is a large part of the highway's original spirit.
I started out in May in Oklahoma City, which sprawls across the open landscape, with each generation of development claiming another ring around the core. But rather than being annoying, I found the sprawl here oddly appealing.
Longtime residents will tell you that most of Oklahoma City's idiosyncratic roadside architecture has been lost to time and neglect. But in driving aimlessly -- sometimes following old Route 66 (it's marked on the AAA city map), and sometimes not -- I still found enough slam-on-the-brakes midcentury modern architecture to keep the ramble interesting.
Among the best was the 1962 State Capitol Bank (now an Arvest branch) on Lincoln Boulevard, which looks like a gathering of baby flying saucers awaiting the return of the mother ship. It was designed by the Oklahoma architect Robert B. Roloff, who told me that the bank president who commissioned it wanted it "more like a cocktail lounge than a bank." Mr. Roloff also designed the gold-domed Citizens State Bank (now a Bank One) in 1958, inspired by Buckminster Fuller's geodesics.
Off North May Avenue is a Bank of America branch made of modernistic arches, cables and parabolic concrete, a building utterly resistant to any attempt at classification. And nearby is the brilliant plumage of the exceedingly neoned Charcoal Oven, a drive-through hamburger stand that's been a city institution since 1958.
In contrast to the spirited outskirts, downtown Oklahoma City is more subdued and melancholy, in part because much of the economic energy has migrated outward, and in part because it's the site of the former Alfred P. Murrah building -- now a stark and dramatic memorial to those who died in the 1995 blast.
I set off westward on a blue and sunny afternoon, linking up with the old Route 66 near the city's outskirts. The road here is made of a pinkish pavement, but it's just as easy to recognize by listening: Route 66 has its own soundtrack, made by tires thunking over pavement seams.
Almost everyone describes the sound differently. One motel owner told me it was "fwocka . . . fwocka . . . fwocka." Some visiting Germans said it was "dob do . . . dob do . . . dob do." I actually heard "dot com . . . dot com . . . dot com." You be the judge. (Be forewarned: the 1946 Bobby Troup song "Get Your Kicks on Route 66" is all but impossible to stop singing when you're driving because the tune's rhythm closely mimics the actual sound of the road.)
Once outside city limits, finding traces of the original highway becomes something of a scavenger hunt. The old road has in large part been absorbed by I-40 (where you won't necessarily see signs for Route 66), which plunges westward with a humorless efficiency -- sides of hills blasted away, rivers spanned, small towns skirted as if they were tar pits threatening the march of progress. Original Route 66, where you find it, sits more lightly on the land, weaving around hillocks, and rolling gently right through the middle of the towns, like a welcoming carpet.
In western Oklahoma I found two relatively new museums devoted to the history and culture of Route 66. Just 26 miles apart, both were glossy and bright. As to why two largely similar museums ended up in such close proximity, I was told that the state passed over Elk City in favor of Clinton when it sought a museum site in the mid-1990's. In a minor fit of pique, Elk City opened its own.
Visitors to the Oklahoma Route 66 Museum in Clinton begin by perusing the "world's largest curio cabinet," then progress, decade by decade, through displays about the highway's history. It's a good outline of the road's rich heritage; each of the decades occupies a room, where visitors hear songs or see film clips and artifacts relating to that decade. (In the 60's room is a VW microbus, painted in psychedelic colors. According to a helpful placard, "The driver would flash the peace sign expecting a return of the same.")
The National Route 66 Museum in Elk City had less extensive displays, but featured a superb RV prototype (a converted 1929 Stewart truck) that succinctly captured the grand enterprise of road tripping before Interstates and motels.
My disappointment with both museums might be summed up by the phrase "pavement display." Both exhibited a cross section of pavement from the original highway, and I couldn't help but recall tales of fanciful beasts that perished upon being caged. These bits of pavement -- and all the other entombed curios -- seemed to suck the life out of this storied route. Where was the sense of adventure? Where was the comforting "dot com . . . dot com"? It was like trying to summon up the grandeur of Rome by putting a paving stone on a stand. I pressed on.
Fifteen miles west of Elk City is the town of Sayre, where the impressive Beckham County Courthouse may look dimly familiar -- it had a cameo in John Ford's "The Grapes of Wrath." Soon after, at the border of the Texas panhandle, I crossed the 100th meridian, a continental divide of climate, architecture and culture, the beginning of the Great American Desert. The arid West with its false-front towns and dun landscapes suddenly loomed ahead, and the green farm fields of the Midwest receded into the rear-view mirror.
Tying the two landscapes together are the fine ruins that quickly come into view up along the highway. Americans usually loathe ruins, of course -- they want to either fix them up or tear them down. But that attitude doesn't seem to apply along Route 66, where abandoned signs and buildings benefit from picturesque neglect. I found handsome ghost signs fronting enterprises long since demolished, and empty roadside stands that were every bit as evocative as Tintern Abbey.
I came upon disused and cobwebbed ice cream stands, restaurants, motels, movie theaters and gas stations. In Groom, Tex., there was the eerie and defunct 66 Courts motel, now in a state of advanced dishabille. In McLean I found an exception to the rule: a handsomely restored vintage Phillips 66 station -- the old kind with the steep gables -- with an antique pumper parked out front.
The most striking near-ruin was the U Drop Inn in Shamrock, Tex., a former gas station and cafe designed in a sort of Art Deco-ish, nationalist style one might associate with a Teutonic regime, complete with monumental spire. When this impressive edifice of brick and green glazed tile opened in 1936, the local paper called it the "swankest of swank eating places." It shut down in 1997, but a sign promises a future restoration.
About midway across the Texas Panhandle is the city of Amarillo. As in Oklahoma City, the downtown here is a bit gap-toothed -- it's largely a patchwork of parking lots interrupted by the occasional building -- but has some extraordinary Art Deco structures worth looking at, including the Kress Building (1932), the landmark Santa Fe Building (1929) and the late-Deco Greyhound bus terminal (built in 1949, it now also houses offices).
Historic Route 66 follows Amarillo's West Sixth Avenue, and between Georgia and Western Streets there's a strong sense of small town cordiality. A blue water tower even rises up over lowslung buildings (some in a brick Spanish colonial style), and former gas stations (some now shops) crowd in on the road.
Browsable antique shops cluster along here, and I spent a productive morning poking around. The Sixth Street Antique Mall has 25 dealers housed in the Nat (short for natatorium), an old indoor swimming pool that was converted to a dance hall and once played host to many of the big bands that motored along Route 66. Whispering Pines Antiques has rustic goods with a north-woods flavor, and Alex's Route 66 Antique Mall has a fine selection of vintage 20th-century goods. Having gotten in the 66 spirit myself, I ended up in possession of two vintage ice crushers, a handsome old suitcase and a passe set of shot glasses ringed with colorful stripes.
Historic Route 66 also offers some of Amarillo's most diverse dining. The Shack at Ocho Rios specializes in tropical barbecue and serves excellent jerk pork. And just down the block is the Golden Light Cafe, a Route 66 institution since 1946. The original plywood booths have been replaced, and the place is now festooned with Coors Lite signs, but it retains the smoky feel of a classic road joint. I elbowed up to the crowded counter and ordered a bowl of green chili stew.
The man next to me informed me that he sold leather motorcycle paraphernalia at biker rallies for a living. Upon learning that I was a writer, he told me in a way that left little room for negotiation that I was to write that this is the best green chili stew between Tulsa and Tucson.
So there you have it. I'm also pleased to report that for fans of Route 66, the cafe -- like much of the highway through the two states -- is also home to a comfortably frayed nostalgia, the kind you can trust.

Along the aging Mother Road

Lodging
The Renaissance Oklahoma City, 10 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, (405) 228-8000, fax (405) 228-8080, www.jqhhotels.com, has 311 modern rooms around a soaring atrium. The hotel is downtown within walking distance of Bricktown, a district of restaurants and nightclubs, and the Oklahoma City Memorial. Doubles from $79 through the end of the month.
Cactus Inn, Route 66 West, McLean, Tex., (806) 779-2346, fax (806) 779-2313, is a vintage motel just off the road that's been recently renovated by the owners, Gordon and Jane Sheplor. Nonsmoking rooms are available; doubles from $35.
The Ambassador Hotel, 3100 I-40 West, Amarillo, Tex., (800) 817-0521, fax (806) 358-9869, or on the Web at www.shanerhotels.com, is one of the city's better full-service hotels, situated off the Interstate south of downtown. Doubles from $99.

Architecture
Aficionados of mid-20th-century commercial architecture will find plenty to gawk at, both in the cities and along the roadside.
OKLAHOMA CITY: Arvest Bank (formerly State Capitol Bank), 3900 North Lincoln Boulevard (at Northeast 39th Street); Bank One (formerly Citizens State Bank), 1112 West 23rd Street (at Classen Boulevard); and Bank of America, 5613 North May Avenue (at United Founders Boulevard).
SHAMROCK, TEX.: the U Drop Inn, Historic Route 66 and Route 83.
AMARILLO: the Kress Building, Seventh Avenue and Polk; the Santa Fe Building, Ninth Avenue and Polk; and the Greyhound Bus Terminal, Seventh Avenue and Tyler.

Dining
Charcoal Oven, 2701 Northwest Expressway, Oklahoma City, (405) 842-8911, is a classic drive-through restaurant with terrific burgers. You can park under the awning after you pick up your order. Burgers, $2.89 to $4.99.
Golden Light Cafe, 2908 West Sixth Avenue, Amarillo, (806) 374-9237, serves sandwiches and various tasty chilis, priced from $2 to $5. It's open from 11 a.m. until 10 p.m. daily except Sunday.
The Shack at Ocho Rios, 3020 West Sixth Avenue, Amarillo, (806) 374-6522, specializes in Jamaican jerk dishes, but also serves fish, pasta and burgers. Lunch and dinner entrees from $7 to $18. Open for lunch and dinner Tuesday through Saturday.

Shopping
The largest concentration of antique shops is found on West Sixth Avenue in Amarillo, between Western and Georgia Streets: Sixth Street Antique Mall, at No. 2715, (806) 374-0459; Whispering Pines Antiques, at No. 2727, (806) 373-8131; and Alex's Route 66 Antique Mall, at No. 2912, (806) 376-1166.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A motel sign along old Route 66 in Amarillo, Tex. Lunchtime at Red River Steakhouse in McLean, Tex. The state's first Phillips 66 service station, also in McLean. (Photographs by David Bowser for The New York Times)(pg. 10); The shuttered 100th Meridian Museum in Erick, Okla., near the Texas panhandle border. (Photographs by David Bowser for the New York Times)(pg. 18) Map of Texas and Oklahoma highlights Route 66.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (86%); THEME RESTAURANTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ROUTE 66 

PERSON: CURTIS, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) OKLAHOMA; TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



542 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1838 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Vancouver

BYLINE:  By MELISSA A. TRAINER; MELISSA A. TRAINER is a food and travel writer in Seattle.

 BODY:
For the third year in a row, Vancouver has been voted the world's most livable city by the William M. Mercer Institute, a British consulting firm that bases its decisions on 39 quality-of-life criteria.
 With more than 170 parks, a temperate climate, a diverse cultural scene and a low crime rate, Vancouver can impress visitors at any time of year. Summer, however, is its most spectacular season, with long days that allow for plenty of outdoor activities, festivals and concerts. Situated on a peninsula, the city has many waterways on which Vancouverites parade their maritime skills -- kayaking, canoeing, sailing and cruising. For Americans, the appeal is even greater now that the United States dollar buys about $1.54 in Canadian currency (prices below are in American dollars). 
 One irony regarding the world's "most livable city" is a strike by city bus drivers, which began in March and as of early last week hadn't ended. Taxis can still be hailed on the street, but it's a good idea to carry the number of a local taxi company -- Black Top and Checker Cabs, for example, (604) 681-2181 -- to call for a pickup. 
One good route for both cyclists and pedestrians is along the city's 6.5-mile Stanley Park Seawall, a waterfront promenade that offers seaside breezes and awesome views. Vancouver is very bike friendly, with a dedicated lane along the seawall. Local cyclists also recommend exploring the peaceful inner trails of the park. Bikes, Rollerblades and jogging strollers can be had at Bayshore Rentals, 745 Denman Street; (604) 688-2453, or on the Web at www.bayshorebikerentals.com.
For more information and an update on the status of the strike: Tourist Info Center, (604) 683-2000, or www.tourismvancouver.com.

Events
The Vancouver International Comedy Festival, (604) 683-0883, or www .comedyfest.com, is being held in various places on Granville Island through Aug. 5, encompassing more than 100 free outdoor performances in addition to evening shows. The American comedian Eric Bogosian and the Canadian Carla Collins are featured. Evening shows are $8 to $24; galas, featuring more than one artist on the stage, are $17.
"China! 7,000 Years of Innovation," through Sept. 9 at Science World British Columbia, 1455 Quebec Street, (604) 443-7440, www .scienceworld.bc.ca, celebrates ancient Chinese culture and its contributions to science and technology. Highlights include more than 900 original and replica artifacts, including the world's first seismograph. General admission $13.25.
From Aug. 23 to 26, the 14th annual Vancouver Wooden Boat Festival on Granville Island, (604) 688-9622, will include knot-tying demonstrations and a children's boat-building competition. Events run daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Bard on the Beach Shakespeare Festival at Vanier Park, (604) 739-0559, www.bardonthebeach.org, offers affordable productions in a setting that overlooks the water and the mountains. This year's event, which runs through Sept. 23, includes "Antony and Cleopatra," "The Taming of the Shrew," and "The Two Gentlemen of Verona." Tickets range from $9.50 to $17.
"Celebration of Light," by the Vancouver Fireworks Festival Society, on the evenings of July 28 and Aug. 1, 4 and 8, brings pyrotechnics launched from barges and synchronized to music; spectators watch from beaches along English Bay. Each hourlong extravaganza starts at 10:15; (604) 641-1193.

Sightseeing
VanDusen Botanical Garden, 5251 Oak Street, Vancouver, (604) 878-9274, www.vandusengarden.org, about 20 minutes south of downtown, is set on 55 acres that include a perennial garden and a cedar maze. Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. through Aug. 15 and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Aug. 16 through Labor Day; $4.50.
Grouse Mountain, 6400 Nancy Greene Way, (604) 984-0661, www.grousemountain.com, about 20 minutes north of downtown, is the highest peak in Vancouver. Throughout the year, visitors can take the resort's Skyride to the 3,700-foot alpine station, which boasts great views, hiking trails, restaurants and 30 wooden sculptures carved by the chainsaw artist Glen Greensides. The peak chair ride takes visitors to the 4,100-foot summit, where there are 360-degree views. The Skyride runs daily from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.; $12.75, including the chair ride.
The Vancouver Aquarium Marine Science Center, in the 1,000-acre Stanley Park, (604) 659-3474, www.vanaqua.org, recently opened its $1.4 million Wild Coast exhibit in which a series of boardwalks simulating a field station allows visitors to interact with seals, sea lions and a white-sided dolphin. Also new is the aquarium's salmon demonstration stream, which meanders through the park to Coal Harbor. In the fall, visitors will watch for spawning salmon. Summer hours through Labor Day are 9:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; $9.75.
In the first half of the 20th century, Granville Island was an ironworks, coal and shipping center. The 35-acre man-made island is now an eclectic enclave for artists and salty dogs. Sitting on the southwest side of False Creek, this bustling community is home to many of the city's best festivals. Because traffic can be congested and parking next to impossible, the best way to travel there is on the colorful Aquabus ferry shuttle from the downtown docks; one ferry accommodates cyclists and their wheels. The cost averages $1.25 for adults. Hours are from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Information: (604) 689-5858, www.aquabus.bc.ca.
The Granville Island Museums, 1502 Duranleau Street, (604) 683-1939, www.sportfishingmuseum.ca, a work in progress since 1997, is actually three museums in one: sport fishing, model ships and model trains. The fishing museum displays over 500 classic and antique reels, as well as 700 fly plates (framed pictures with fishing fly inside). Another room displays models of such ships as Britain's Hood, sunk by Germany's Bismarck in 1941, and upstairs is a floor-to-ceiling wall encasing thousands of toy trains. Open daily from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; $4.50.
Gulf of Georgia Cannery National Historic Site, 12138 Fourth Avenue, www.gulfofgeorgiacannery.com, (604) 664-9009, in Steveston, some 20 miles south of Vancouver, documents British Columbia's rich salmon canning industry. Open daily through Labor Day, then Thursday to Monday through October, the museum was known simply as the monster cannery at one time, and much of the original equipment is still intact and demonstrated; $4.50.

Where to Stay
Vancouver's hotels always offer economical fall and winter packages, but for the first time they have decided to offer special rates and packages during the high season, mainly because the number of hotel rooms exceeds demand. Information or reservations: (800) 435-5622 or www.tourismvancouver.com.
The 157-room Inn at False Creek, 1335 Howe Street, (604) 682-0229, fax (604) 662-7566, or www .qualityhotelvancouver.com, sits near the city's waterfront across from Granville Island. The Santa Fe-style lobby has a fireplace, and the outdoor pool is heated. Fourteen of the contemporary rooms come with kitchenettes. Double rooms from $107, kitchenette suites from $121.
The four-year-old Best Western Downtown, 718 Drake Street, (604) 669-9888, fax (604)-669-3440, www .bestwesterndowntown.com, has 143 rooms as well as an indoor sauna and a spacious Jacuzzi on the roof. A free shuttle service runs from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and drops off guests anywhere within downtown. The rooms have modern furniture and are decorated in earth tones. Doubles range from $127.50, including Continental breakfast.
About eight miles from the airport and a 10-minute drive south of downtown, the Ramada Vancouver Center, 898 West Broadway, (604) 872-8661, fax (604) 872-2270, www .ramada.ca has 118 well-maintained contemporary-style rooms, many with views of the water and mountains and all with high-speed Internet access. The hotel's pub features live rhythm and blues nightly. Rates range from $74.25 to $111.50.
The 193-room Holiday Inn Vancouver Center, 711 West Broadway, (604) 879-0511, fax (604) 872-7520, www.holiday-inn.com/yvr-centre, is convenient to downtown. There is an indoor pool and a sauna. The recently renovated rooms, with sleek, modern furnishings and views of downtown and the North Shore mountains, are equipped with coffee makers, hair dryers and data ports. The neighborhood abounds in ethnic restaurants. Rates start at $100.50.
The 129-room Listel Vancouver, at 1300 Robson Street, (800) 663-5491, fax (604) 684-7092, www .listel-vancouver.com, has recently created a museum floor in coordination with the University of British Columbia's Museum of Anthropology, displaying present-day Northwest Coastal art. More than half of the boutique hotel's elegant rooms -- some spare, some classical -- feature original artwork. Double rooms from $174.
The 325-room Westin Bayshore Resort and Marina, 1601 Bayshore Drive, (604) 682-3377, fax (604) 687-3102, www.westinbayshore.com, is connected to Stanley Park by a new seawall extension. There are heated indoor and outdoor pools and a health club. And the rooms, recently renovated with traditional furnishings, have decorator fabrics and luxurious linens. Doubles from $222.

Where to Eat
Urban Fare, 177 Davie Street, (604) 975-7550, an upscale specialty foods market in Yaletown, a recently gentrified neighborhood slightly southeast of downtown, offers everything from sandwiches and freshly baked bread to produce and more than 180 cheeses. This is a great place to buy picnic provisions. There's also a nice coffee bar and cafe that serves breakfast, lunch and dinner. Takeout sandwiches range from $2.75 to $5.35.
White Spot, 2850 Cambie Street, (604) 873-1252, is a good local hamburger chain. The Monterey mushroom chicken burger and the chocolate milkshakes are worth the trip. Check the phone book for more than eight other Vancouver locations. Lunch for two adults and two children about $20.25.
Griffins Restaurant, 900 West Georgia Street, (604) 662-1900, is a cheerful brasserie in the historic Hotel Vancouver. The daily breakfast and lunch buffets and the Sunday brunch offer good value. The breakfast buffet, which has everything from eggs Benedict to muesli with berries and Japanese fare like raw eggs, raw fish and miso soup, is $14.50 a person; the lunch buffet is $11.75 and Sunday brunch is $21.25. Children eat at a reduced price.
Pastis Bistro, 2153 West Fourth Avenue, (604) 731-5020, is a quiet French restaurant in Vancouver's Kitsilano neighborhood, about a 10-minute drive southwest of downtown. A fireplace holds center stage in the dining room, and guests can expect professional service. Specialties include mushroom tart and roasted duck breast with fennel confit and potato roesti. Dinner for two with wine is about $100.
Cioppino's, 1133 Hamilton Street, (604) 688-7466, is a bustling Italian restaurant in Yaletown with brick walls and an open kitchen. Although the spring risotto with peas and crab was warm and comforting, the veal strip loin was overpriced ($20.25) and unimpressive. Outdoor dining is available on a heated patio. Dinner for two with wine about $88. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the seawall near downtown. Participants in last summer's Wooden Boat Festival on Granville Island. Embroidering silk at "China! 7,000 Years of Innovation," at Science World British Columbia. (Dan Lamont for The New York Times); (Vancouver Wooden Boat Festival) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Vancouver. (Sources: Runzheimer International, VisitVancouver, Statistics Canada, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses) Map of Vancouver shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); CRIME RATES (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); CYCLING (70%); SAILING (69%); BOAT BUILDING (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (67%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: TRAINER, MELISSA A 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (90%) VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA)

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



543 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 5039 words

HEADLINE: Blasts From The Past 

BYLINE:  By Jeff Goodell; Jeff Goodell is the author of "Sunnyvale: The Rise and Fall of a Silicon Valley Family." He last wrote for the magazine about the execution of Timothy McVeigh.

 BODY:
Twenty-five miles south of Charleston, W. Va., the Appalachians look as they must have a thousand years ago, rapturously folded against each other and densely covered with trees. Down a gently sloping mountainside, a conveyor belt angles toward four coal-storage bins that resemble farm silos. I exit onto a roughly-paved road and arrive at a small white guardhouse near a wooden sign: "Hobet 21."
 It doesn't look like much. But in fact Hobet 21 covers some 12,000 acres, almost all of it hidden from easy public view by foliage and mountain ridges. Hobet 21 is owned by Arch Coal, America's second-largest coal company, with mines throughout Appalachia and the West. Arch will dig up 100 million tons of coal this year, with six million coming from Hobet 21. Almost half the coal Arch digs in Appalachia will be obtained by a controversial method known as "mountaintop removal." Instead of digging the coal out of the mountains in subterranean shafts, as miners used to do, workers today -- with the help of enormous machines called draglines that scoop 100 tons of earth and rock at a time -- simply remove the mountains from the coal. It's hell on the owls and frogs and human beings who live in the vicinity, but it's remarkably efficient. 
 At the guardhouse, I'm greeted by Larry Emerson, director of "environmental performance" for Arch. A tall, rangy West Virginia native dressed in jeans and a baseball hat, he is deliberate in his good cheer. "Welcome to our world," Emerson says, pumping my hand firmly. "I hear you want to see where electricity comes from."
I follow Emerson's Dodge 4 by 4 up the hill. Looking at the coal-handling machinery -- the silos where coal is washed of impurities, the loading deck where it is funneled into rail cars -- I feel as if I'm passing through a theme-park exhibit about How Life Used to Be in America. All that's missing are pickaxes and mules. I'm also amazed by the tall piles of glistening rock; coal has a reputation as a filthy fuel, but in its raw state, it is shiny and pitch-black lovely. 
After a short drive, we suddenly come to a huge barren area -- a man-made plateau. In the center of this wide-open field, near some rusty trailers, is the mining office. It feels strangely exposed up here. West Virginia is all hollows and shadows and twisting roads. This is a different planet. 
We park near the office, and Emerson, who has supervised the planting of trees on reclaimed mine land, hands me some P.R. material touting Arch's environmental accomplishments. As we chat, a siren goes off in the distance. A moment later, there's a boom. The earth trembles; a rabbit dashes across the parking lot and dives under a bush. A plume of smoke rises on the horizon. 
"They're blasting," Emerson explains matter-of-factly. 
Yes, they are -- blasting, booming and raking in the dough. Big Coal simply can't believe its luck. For decades, the industry seemed to be dying. First, the use of coal for industrial applications, like steel making, was phased out. In the late 70's, utility companies began switching from coal to natural gas, which was plentiful, more efficient and less of an environmental nightmare. During the 80's and 90's, coal prices flattened. Profits, if there were any, were measured in pennies per ton. 
Then, unexpectedly, what one analyst has called "the Perfect Storm" hit the energy industry. Rolling blackouts in California demonstrated that electricity is not something that's created by wall outlets; the price of natural gas shot up to $10 from $2.50 per million B.T.U.; and finally, George W. Bush of Texas, the state that consumes more coal than any other in the country, together with Dick Cheney, who hails from the largest coal-producing state in the country, won the White House. Two months after taking office, in an about-face that outraged environmentalists, President Bush "clarified" his campaign pledge to begin regulating carbon-dioxide emissions from power plants, effectively killing the international Kyoto treaty on global warming. Considering that American coal-powered plants pump 2.3 billion tons of CO2 into the air each year -- twice as much as the amount emitted by cars -- Bush's turnaround was a godsend. Then in May, the administration announced an "energy plan" that openly championed coal, positioning it as America's favored source of electricity generation for decades to come.
To anyone who believes that technological progress moves in a straight line, this has been a weird turn of events. It's as if a wormhole opened in the cosmos and we slid back to the 1890's. Isn't this the dawn of the 21st century? Why are we burning rocks to charge our cell phones? 
Even before the boom, coal-fired power plants still produced more than 50 percent of the electricity in America. And Big Coal may soon have an even bigger share: 22 new coal-powered plants have been proposed just in the last few months. The price of coal has more than doubled since February, while the stock prices of industry leaders like Arch and its rival, Peabody Energy, have shot up like dot-coms of yore. 
Flush with cash, Big Coal is now working to wipe some of the soot off its image. The National Mining Association now refers to coal, which is formed from ancient plant matter, as "buried sunshine." One industry-financed advertisement features a kid standing on a pitcher's mound in a lighted stadium, alongside the slogan "Electricity from coal: Essential, affordable, increasingly clean." It's a deft phrase, considering that in 1999 American coal-fired utilities filled the air with 18 million tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, down from 21 million tons in 1990. (These chemicals are the major cause of acid rain.)
Part of the new spin on coal is that it's the engine behind the New Economy. Industry executives never tire of suggesting that, without coal, there would be no semiconductors, no Internet. The first time I talked to Bill Raney, the powerful president of the West Virginia Coal Association, he said, apropos of nothing, "Did you know that it takes more energy to charge up a Palm hand-held than it does to power a refrigerator for a month?" It turns out Raney's claim is a bit exaggerated; a Palm is roughly 1,500 times less power hungry than a refrigerator. But Big Coal loves such hyperbole. The West Virginia Coal Association's Web site boldly claims that "the process of ordering a book from Amazon.com uses about a half of a pound of coal" and that computers and the Internet suck up 13 percent of the electricity in America. In fact, the best studies suggest that such activities consume only 3 percent of the nation's electricity. 
To Big Coal's critics, none of these exaggerations are surprising. "The coal industry has been telling lies for years," says Carolyn Johnson, staff director of the Citizens Coal Council, a Denver-based environmental group. The notion that coal is "increasingly clean" galls David Hawkins, director of the National Resources Defense Council's Climate Center. "When we tried to pass acid-rain legislation, the industry fought us every step of the way for 10 years," Hawkins says. "Now, because laws have forced sulfur-dioxide emissions to go down, they're crowing about it as if it were their accomplishment." To some, the sins of the coal industry go even deeper. "Coal is not only wrecking my state," cries Larry Gibson, a local activist whose ancestral home has been surrounded by mountaintop-mining operations. "It is wrecking the planet! How much longer are we going to let them get away with this?" 
That's a question many people are asking, especially in the halls of Congress. A series of political battles is shaping up that will outwardly be about power-plant pollution and greenhouse gases but in fact will amount to a kind of character test for the coal industry. The captains of Big Coal want us to believe that they have turned over a new leaf, that the old days of black lung and billowing smokestacks and the wanton destruction of nature are over. They know that it's wise to adopt a public pose of reform. But now that the Bush administration has placed them at the head of America's energy table, Big Coal's top players are lobbying behind the scenes for a loosening of regulations. The stakes in this largely ignored battle are enormous -- not only for the coal industry, but also for anyone who cares about clean air and cheap electricity.
"This is an important moment for us," says Jack Gerard, president of the National Mining Association, the industry's main lobbying group. "We have to seize this opportunity and prove to the world that we are a new industry -- hopeful, open, technologically sophisticated and environmentally sensitive."
It's going to be a big job.
The National Mining Association Building squats on a prime piece of real estate in Washington. The Mayflower Hotel, site of many power breakfasts and illicit rendezvous, is right across the street. The building itself, a square, solid box of black stone, was modeled on the headquarters of the National Rifle Association and looks as if it could withstand nuclear attack. Inside, it's freeze-framed from the 1970's, with harsh linoleum and steel doors. Jack Gerard's office on the top floor has a few power-politician touches, like a high-backed leather chair and a conference room off to one side. A watercolor of a mining operation -- imagine coal barges painted by a shopping-mall Monet -- hangs beside his desk. On the windowsill sits a toy bulldozer and excavator. There is an industrial frankness to it all; it's prespin America.
Gerard, 42, is friendly and warm, dressed in a crisply pressed white shirt and expensive loafers. He has salt-and-pepper hair, a manly handshake and a manner that's insistently familiar. "Excuse me, things have been a little chaotic around here," he says, dashing out to hand some papers to his assistant and double-check his afternoon schedule. A former high-powered political consultant and legislative director for Senator James McClure, Republican of Idaho, Gerard has been at this job for only about eight months, and you get the feeling that this new coal-fired life is even hotter than he expected. Earlier today, he had lunch with the owner of a Western coal company who is thinking about the feasibility of building a new coal-fired power plant in Wyoming and shipping the electricity to California; this afternoon, he says he has been "keeping tabs" on what's going on over in the House of Representatives, where the Commerce Committee is beginning to mark up an energy bill.
But Gerard, despite all the nagging details of his day, really has his eye on the big picture for the coal industry. And increasingly, that big picture is focused on a tiny section of the Clean Air Act called New Source Review, which prohibits power-plant operators from expanding old plants without also installing state-of-the-art pollution-control devices. Later this summer, the Bush administration may recommend the dismantling of New Source Review -- and Big Coal is doing everything it can to make that happen.
While it sounds arcane, the conflict over New Source Review is in fact a profound challenge to Big Coal. If the regulations are upheld and enforced, satisfying their stringent environmental requirements could cost the industry billions of dollars. More important, executives worry that if the environmentalists win this battle, it could ultimately lead to a whole lot less coal being burned in the United States. And less coal burned means less coal mined, which is why Jack Gerard is concerned. "This is a big issue for us," he says frankly. 
The roots of this conflict go back more than 25 years. When the Clean Air Act, which restricted pollution from smokestacks, was amended in 1977, utilities fought for and won an exemption for their aging power plants. The reasoning was that it would be too costly to upgrade older plants to meet the Clean Air Act's strict requirements and that the plants would be retired soon anyway. It didn't quite work that way. Many old belchers are still running full tilt. In the mid-90's, regulators suspected that many power-plant operators were evading the spirit, if not the letter, of the law by installing new parts that prolonged the lives of the old power plants while at the same time avoiding pollution upgrades. In 1999 and 2000, the Department of Justice, on behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency, filed suit against a total of 51 power plants, charging them with violating the Clean Air Act. A number of states, mostly in the Northeast, and various environmental groups piled on with lawsuits of their own. Currently, American Electric Power, one of the largest utilities in the country, is being sued not only by the E.P.A., but also by eight states and 17 environmental groups.
"The effect of all this litigation," Gerard tells me, "was to chill the industry. No one wanted to upgrade or maintain their power plants because they were afraid of getting sued." 
Meanwhile, Big Coal's aging power plants have cranked up the juice. Electricity from old, heavily-polluting coal-fired power plants rose 15.8 percent between 1992 and 1998, an increase big enough to power California for a year. In a single year, 1998, these old machines dumped 755,000 tons of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere -- the same amount of smog-forming pollution emitted by 36 million cars. (Overall, the industry has increased its CO2 output by 20 percent since 1990.)
Although the details are complex, the larger issue at stake in the battle over New Source Review is straightforward: how long should these old power plants be allowed to continue spewing pollution with impunity? As some observers see it, the industry wants to delay reform indefinitely. 
"These utilities have a deliberate strategy in place," one industry consultant explains. "They're just going to keep running the plants as hard as they can while fighting the lawsuits in court. They know that eventually they will lose, but the longer they can drag it out, the more money they can make."
Last summer, Big Coal got a break from an unexpected front: California, a state that has long been anticoal. After the state's rolling blackouts hit, suddenly everyone was talking about power plants -- not how filthy they are but why there aren't more of them. Although California's troubles were in fact caused more by half-baked deregulation than any shortage of generating capacity (one recent study points out that the many blackouts occurred when demand was only 75 percent of available supply), it's much easier to cry for more power than it is to unravel the complex tangle of California energy politics. The White House's trumpeting of the energy crisis helped to feed the myth that America desperately needs additional sources of energy, clean or no. 
To take advantage of this fortuitous turn of events, the National Coal Council, a federal advisory committee that critics claim is stacked with coal-industry representatives, cranked out a "white paper" about how to squeeze even more electricity out of those old power plants. Among the conclusions the report reached was that the E.P.A. lawsuits had a "direct and chilling effect" on the operation of the industry's coal-fired power plants. 
The Coal Council's paper was delivered to Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, who passed it to Vice-President Dick Cheney's energy task force. In May, when the White House unveiled its National Energy Policy, it was clear that Big Coal's message had been heard. In the plan, President Bush directed the E.P.A. and the Department of Energy to conduct a 90-day "review" of the impact of Clean Air Act regulations on utility-generation capacity. The report is due Aug. 17. 
More important, Bush asked the Department of Justice to "review" all those pending E.P.A. lawsuits against coal-fired power plants. (A report is expected this fall.) To environmentalists, it was a disturbing example of politics interfering with law enforcement, as well as a blatant attack on the Clean Air Act. To Big Coal, it was sweet relief.
Gerard himself is definitely on the sweet-relief side. "I think the solution here is fairly simple," he tells me, leaning forward in his chair. "We need to go back to a pre-Clinton-administration interpretation of the law." As Gerard explains it, the Clinton administration in the mid-90's began wielding New Source Review as an ax against the coal industry. But Clinton wasn't actually the first to do so. The initial crackdown on these power-plant modifications came in 1988, under the Reagan administration. 
The question now is what changes, if any, the E.P.A. will recommend in the regulations on Aug. 17. Will the agency suggest that today's energy "crisis" can be resolved only by giving Big Coal some major concessions?
Possibly. But Big Coal's dreams of turning back the clock to the "pre-Clinton" era were dealt a blow by the recent defection of Senator Jim Jeffords from the Republican Party. Jeffords's decision to become an independent not only threw the Senate to the Democrats but also gave him the chairmanship of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. This powerful position allows Jeffords, an ardent supporter of clean-air regulation, to effectively block any legislation that makes life easier for dirty-power-plant operators. 
One measure of how much Jeffords's move has shifted the dynamic is that a mere two weeks after his announcement, eight power companies involved in New Source Review litigation announced that they had formed a lobbying group, the National Electric Reliability Coordinating Council. The group hired Haley Barbour, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee and a high-profile lobbyist, to help apply pressure in all the right places -- in particular, one assumes, the office of Christie Whitman, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
As governor of New Jersey, Whitman was outspoken in her support of lawsuits to limit power-plant pollution; to move away from that position now won't be easy for her. "This review is not a back-door attempt to weaken Clean Air legislation," she says. "It's a serious attempt to clarify a very complex regulation." Whitman also points out that, while the review process is going on, the Department of Justice has not stopped enforcing the law. "We just reached a $20 million settlement with a major refinery, so we're moving ahead."
Although New Source Review is obviously a regulatory and political battle, it's also, in some dimension, a moral battle. Many clean-air advocates believe that the utilities have been getting away with this, and other flagrant abuses of the law, for too long. "If the administration rolls over on this, it will be a shortsighted, callous move and another example of the president's caving in to his friends in the energy industry," says Armand Cohen, executive director of the Clean Air Task Force, a Boston-based group. "We're ready to kick up a firestorm."
So can Big Coal be made to behave? Gerard, for his part, has been meeting privately with environmental leaders, trying to convince them that the industry is not the Big Bad Wolf. But he tells me that a little gratitude for what Big Coal has accomplished is in order. "What we're doing is good for the country," says Gerard. "Without coal, America wouldn't be what it is today."
Getting clearance to visit Hobet 21 required considerable negotiation. I knew it was Arch's showoff mine, the place where they hold open houses for the local community. But when I called Deck Slone, a spokesman for Arch, to ask for a tour, he politely declined, saying, "We're just too busy right now." Eventually Slone relented and set up a visit -- but only to the reclaimed area, not the active mining site. 
My visit to see reclaimed land is led by Larry Emerson, the "environmental performance" official, and John McDaniel, an engineer. McDaniel is tall and lanky and spookily resembles Abe Lincoln, with high cheekbones and a sly smile. McDaniel is a third-generation miner and proud of it. 
After a few minutes of chat at Hobet 21's bare-bones mining office, McDaniel, Emerson and I pile into McDaniel's truck. McDaniel pops a Black Sabbath disc out of the CD player so we can roll in pastoral silence across the open grassy fields. Parts of the land here are scrubby, like a reclaimed dump; older sections are more lush. We turn down a small dirt road, past small stands of black alder and Virginia pine, into a grove of young black locust trees. (Mining companies like locust trees because they suck up nitrogen, one of the problem gases released by coal-fueled power plants.) The grass here is waist high; wildflowers are blooming. A meadowlark sings from above. It's so pleasant, and so well constructed, that I half expect an animatronic deer to poke its head out of the woods. 
"This was all reclaimed about seven years ago," Emerson explains. "As you can see, the wildlife is beginning to return. In some cases, the habitat is actually improved for many species." Emerson tells me that his wife is a horticulturist and that he lives on four acres of land with a pond stocked with catfish. "I won't tell you that we're improving on what God created," Emerson says. "But by opening more land, we're creating the building blocks for a growing ecosystem. We're also making this hilly terrain more suitable for commercial development." 
We park on a high point overlooking a pond, and I'm getting comfortable with the view, starting to enjoy it. That's when I'm jarred by the sight, just over the ridge, of several 240-ton dump trucks grinding over the raw, dusty hills. Goodbye, eco-paradise. 
"Everyone thinks we just blow these mountains up," McDaniel says, pulling on a cigarette and leaning against the hood of his Blazer. "But that's not really the way it works at all. It's really quite an elaborate process." Later, back in the mining office, McDaniel will show me intricate diagrams of the mining operation -- the way mountains are dismantled not in one blast but methodically, layer by layer. "What I like about this work," says McDaniel, "is the orchestration of all the different parts, from the permits to the rock trucks. When it all goes right, it's almost like music." And if a few mountains are lost along the way? "There are lots of mountains around here," McDaniel responds, sweeping his hand grandly across the horizon.
Of course, many nature lovers feel a bit more protective toward those peaks. Mountaintop-removal mining presents a thorny problem for a publicly held company like Arch. Stockholders demand growth and profit, but at what cost? Unlike subtler forms of environmental destruction, the results of mountaintop-removal mining are there for the whole world to see. Unless, of course, you don't let them into your mine. 
"We certainly feel that the effects of mountaintop mining are sometimes exaggerated," says Steven Leer, president and C.E.O. of Arch. In fact, Leer says, only about one-half of 1 percent of West Virginia has been mountaintop-mined. (Mountaintop-removal mining is also practiced in Kentucky and other Appalachian states, but to a lesser degree.) Local environmentalists like Cindy Rank of the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy says that the one-half of 1 percent figure may be true if you look at the entire state. But almost all of the mining goes on in the hilly southern counties, where Rank estimates that close to one-fifth of the land has been blasted away. 
Whatever the actual scale of these operations may be, there's no question that the environmental damage wrought on the region has been enormous. Some 470 miles of West Virginia's streams have been filled in by mountaintop mining. Thousands of families have been displaced; streams and rivers have been polluted by acid runoff. Wherever there is mining, coal companies build lakes to hold the water used to wash the coal -- the water in these lakes, called slurry ponds, is a gross, metallic mix of coal dust, mercury, sulfur, arsenic and other chemicals. In 1972, in Buffalo Creek, Ky., a poorly built dam at a slurry pond broke, sending a wall of water over the town below, killing 125 people. Last October, at a mine in Inez, Ky., operated by Massey Energy, another dam broke, dumping 250 million gallons of coal slurry into rivers and streams and killing wildlife as far as 60 miles away. Two weeks ago, unusually high runoff from mountaintop-removal mines contributed to the flooding that devastated West Virginia.
Joan Mulhern, a lawyer with the Earthjustice Legal Defense Fund in Washington, argues that mountaintop-removal mining is "a blatant violation of the Clean Water Act." In 1999, United States District Judge Charles H. Haden 2nd, a Republican, agreed. Responding to a lawsuit brought by environmentalists and local residents to halt a 3,100-acre expansion of Arch's Dal-Tex mine, Judge Haden's ruling essentially stopped the state from issuing new mountaintop-removal mining permits and shut down Dal-Tex. It was a stunning blow for Arch: the company laid off or transferred nearly 400 people and took a $365 million write-down. Within weeks of the ruling, Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, long a vigorous supporter of Big Coal, tried to overturn the ruling with legislation -- only to be opposed by the Clinton administration. In April, however, the Fourth Circuit Appeals Court reversed Haden's decision. It is a complex ruling, but essentially the court decided that the Clean Water Act is superseded in West Virginia by state laws that permit the destruction of streams during mining operations. Arch is now applying for the permits to reopen Dal-Tex, while activists are pushing for the case to be reheard by the Appeals Court.
Whatever the legality of mountaintop-removal mining, the idea that Arch can somehow keep its operations out of the public eye is naive. The day before I visited Hobet 21, I arranged an aerial tour of the mines with Susan Lapis, a local pilot. On a sultry summer morning, we took off from the Charleston airport in her Cessna 182, climbing through the gray-yellow haze that often makes the air around Charleston look like L.A. on a bad day. 
At about 3,000 feet, the mountains looked like a soft, undulating green carpet below. About 15 minutes outside of the city, rips in that carpet suddenly appeared -- wide-open bald spots where raw earth was exposed. I could see the deep cuts in the earth and the thick horizontal seams of raw coal. As we headed farther into Big Coal country, the rips and bald spots in the land became larger and more frequent. Some mountains looked as if they had been sliced off with a machete. Others were so deeply mined they looked like miniature Grand Canyons. 
We flew south for more than an hour, passing dozens of mines, some active, some inactive, all naked and raw. Sandwiched between the bright pink flesh of exposed mountains were enormous slurry ponds of metallic green and gold. Whenever I looked out at the horizon, there were more mines in the distance. Eventually, we circled down to 500 feet above Hobet 21. It was enormous and busy. Giant dump trucks filled with rock scurried around, while huge scooping machines ripped out tons of earth. In Silicon Valley, it is commonplace to talk about technology empowering individuals. Here was empowerment on a colossal scale -- one man with the right machine could destroy a mountain. 
When Bill Raney, the head of the West Virginia Coal Association, walks into a bar in Charleston on a recent evening, the whole place lights up: "Hey, Bill!" Raney is slim and folksy, with a thick drawl that clashes with his well-tailored blue suit. He has a kind word or a joke for everyone in the room. When the waitress arrives with his Coors Light, she stares at him and says, "You look familiar." Raney winks and drawls, "A face this ugly is kinda hard to forget, ain't it?"
The day before, a front-page story had appeared in The Wall Street Journal detailing how Raney, along with a local coal baron, James H. Harless, had helped engineer President Bush's electoral victory in West Virginia last November. The five electoral votes of this longtime Democratic state gave Bush the slim edge he needed to win the presidency. The piece chronicled the grass-roots organizing Raney did on Bush's behalf, as well as noting that, nationwide, Big Coal donated $3.8 million for the 2000 election, tripling its 1996 contributions. Almost all of that money went to Republicans.
Over his beer, Raney says he was "embarrassed" by the story and chuckles at the idea that he was the kingmaker in the election. "I just fought for what I believe in, like I always do," he says. Still, when Raney talks about last year's election, there's a mix of triumph and relief in his eyes. "We really worked hard on that," Raney says, speaking for his association, which includes 78 mining-related companies in West Virginia. "We had a lot at stake." 
Indeed they did. In West Virginia, the immediate fear was that a Gore administration would find a way to crack down on mountaintop-removal mining. But more broadly, it was the looming threat of carbon-dioxide regulations that fired up Big Coal to support Bush. Gore, after all, had written an entire book about the danger of global warming. And there's nothing that freezes the heart of a coal-company executive like frank talk about greenhouse gases. Cars and coal-fired power plants are the two biggest emitters of carbon dioxide and other gases that are warming the climate. But when the carbon whip comes down, everyone knows whom they'll go after first. "We're walking around with a big bull's-eye on our foreheads," jokes James Rogers, C.E.O. of Cinergy, a Midwestern coal-burning utility. 
Twenty miles west of Charleston is the John Amos power plant. Squatting on the banks of the Kanawha River, this plant run by American Electric Power consumes up to 26,000 tons of coal a day and generates enough electricity to light two million homes. Inside the plant, a huge iron-encased turbine spins in a huge, echoing room as big as a church. Ninety-six pipes feed pulverized coal dust into a burner at tremendous pressure, where it heats the water that produces steam that spins the turbine that produces the electricity.$ 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 22 about the revival of the coal industry misstated the location of a dam that burst in 1972, killing 125 people. The dam, which accumulated water that was used to wash coal, was on Buffalo Creek in West Virginia. There is no such town as Buffalo Creek, Ky. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (77%); SURFACE MINING (77%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (74%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%) 

COMPANY: ARCH COAL INC (57%)

TICKER: ACI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (91%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001



544 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 3001 words

HEADLINE: Romper Rock 

BYLINE:  By Robert Sullivan; Robert Sullivan is the author, most recently, of "A Whalehunt: Two Years on the Olympic Peninsula With the Makah and Their Canoe."

 BODY:
Sometimes you change when you have a kid, even when you're in rock 'n' roll. For instance, going on the road with Dan Zanes, rock-'n'-roll dad, is not like it used to be when Dan Zanes was Dan Zanes, rock-'n'-roll single guy. When he was a rock-'n'-roll single guy, Zanes, 39, was the leader of the Del Fuegos, a band that started out playing at cool clubs and wild parties in Boston and ended up touring the world; when he went on the road in those days there were planes and big tour buses and roadies and groupies and a lot of other people who had never spent their evening hours reading and rereading "Goodnight Moon." That road-tour situation was, to generalize, very classic rock-'n'-roll-guy road tour, very Steven Tyler-esque -- though it should be noted that (a) Steven Tyler is an actual dad, even if he still does those things with his mouth and the microphone that are not terribly dadlike; and that (b) Dan Zanes was always more of a roots-rock pioneer, less Aerosmith and more Buddy Holly, even as a kid. "I just never understood the glitter, the high-heel shoes," Zanes says. "It just all completely bypassed me." 
 The rock-'n'-roll-dad road-tour situation is considerably more low key, even when Zanes is traveling with two members of his kids' band, the Rocket Ship Revue. On a recent morning, the tour preparations involve Zanes walking his 6-year-old daughter to school; filling up the family station wagon with instruments and amplifiers; waiting for the accordion player and the bassist to show up; accepting a bag of snacks from his wife; breaking the news to said wife that the cat seemed sick ("I'm sorry to tell you this as I'm leaving, but. . . . "), and then, when the bassist arrived, starting out on the road from Brooklyn, where Zanes lives and works and runs his new record company out of his home, to do his first big out-of-town show in Boston, where, as it happened, his adult rock-'n'-roll career began. Out on the F.D.R., cruising along at 55, with the Brooklyn Bridge behind him, the Massachusetts Turnpike ahead and his Ray-Bans in place, Zanes, who is built like a medium-size string bean, acts instinctively non-rock-star-ish when he turns back quietly to check on Allyssa Lamb, who plays accordion, fiddle and tin whistle in the band, and John Abbey, who plays bass (at least when the band's regular bassist, 16-year-old Jacob Eigen, has too much homework). 
 "Uh, John," Zanes says.
"Yeah, Dan," Abbey says.
"Uh," Zanes says, "could you put your seat belt on, please?"
In the world of music, there is kids' music and there is adult music, and the two rarely meet. Syrupy strings and overwrought celestes, obsequious vocals and tunes that nearly rhyme themselves to death: kids' music seems incapable of being cool. And yet the kids' music that Dan Zanes is making is cool -- his first kids' CD, "Dan Zanes + Friends Rocket Ship Beach" has gone from being the novelty item Zanes hauled around in the back of his car to a best seller on cdbaby.com and a Parents Choice Award recommendation. Zanes has sold 3,000 copies, which is impressive for a brand-new independent label, and is now wrapping up work on his second CD, due out in the fall, titled "Family Dance." The success comes, in part, from the friends he plays with -- Suzanne Vega, for instance, who covers "Erie Canal," and Sheryl Crow, who rips through "Polly Wolly Doodle." But it also has to do with Zanes's demeanor. He's Mr. Rogers if Mr. Rogers had spent time opening for Tom Petty instead of studying at a seminary, in that, like Mr. Rogers, Zanes does not condescend. "I think my gift is my enthusiasm," he notes. His particular enthusiasm is tinged with a New England dryness, a very un-Raffi-esque brand of Yankee reserve. "I mean, I am a WASP," he shrugs. "You know, God's frozen people."
Mostly, though, his kids' music works because it's not kids' music; it's just music -- music that's unsanitized, unpasteurized, that's organic even. The aural archetype is the Band, circa 1970. Zanes refers to it as "raggedy folk music," which matches his raggedy look: thrift-shop clothes, wild, unkempt hair. Suzanne Vega, with whom Zanes became friendly when she and his wife were pregnant at the same time, says: "Some children's music is a bit sweet. I think Dan's just trying to make it more real."
After only a year, the Rocket Ship Revue's live shows are already renowned. Their weekly Manhattan gig has turned the Park, a Chelsea dining spot where artistic types and fashionistas try to look bored by night, into the place where toddlers like to get excited on Sunday afternoon -- not to mention the high-powered friends of toddlers, like Tea Leoni, whose 2-year-old daughter is a Zanes fan. A few weeks ago, Liv Tyler was seen doing the twist in the company of Stella McCartney, Gwyneth Paltrow and David Duchovny (Leoni's husband), all accidentally making hanging around with kids and kids' musicians seem cool.
The birth of "Rocket Ship Beach" was accidental, too. In 1998, Zanes was sitting around doing what most parents do when they are looking for music for the kids: having a tough time finding any. So he made his own tape, with neighbors, family members and rock-star friends, like Simon Kirke, the Bad Company drummer, who composed a tune, "All My Friends Live in the Woods." The idea was to make music -- a mix of cover songs and original tunes -- that he and his wife and daughter could listen to together. "Sometimes everything gets stuck in these little compartments, and you're like: 'All right, there's kids' entertainment. That's for the kids. Who's gonna go, and who gets to stay home?' And I was just thinking, Does it all have to be that way?"
Within a year, the tape for friends grew into a small business, Festival Five Records, which he runs from the top floor of his sunny Brooklyn brownstone. The staff consists of Zanes and Barbara Brousal, a Brooklyn-based singer and songwriter who sings and plays guitar with Zanes. "We don't know what we're doing," Zanes says of the nascent business, although he knows not to expect the same kind of reimbursement he got when he was appearing on the bill with the Violent Femmes. Still, he's making a living, and despite the cut in pay (and glamour), a few of his old friends think that family rock 'n' roll may be his calling. "He's finally found a way to do something he loves to do and take an entrepreneurial approach to that," says Tom Lloyd, Zanes's bandmate from the Del Fuegos and now a consultant with McKinsey & Company.
Not everyone gets what Zanes is doing, however. Kids' musicians, it turns out, are the stay-at-home moms of the music world. As Zanes puts it, "I tell people I'm a kids' musician, and they either get excited or they feel sorry for me."
Traffic on route 84 slows down the Rocket Ship Revue, so that when the band stops for lunch at Food & Books, a bookstore-restaurant just outside Boston, Zanes orders a vegetarian sandwich for himself, some sandwiches for the band and a copy of "The Great International Paper Airplane Book" (for the two sons of the friend whose house he's staying at that night) and then rushes everyone back into the station wagon. An hour later, Zanes eases off the highway and into the suburbs, where they meet up with Barbara Brousal. They play a short birthday party, and afterward, while Zanes is on a cell phone arranging dinner (his wife's cell phone, actually; he borrowed it for the trip), he is recognized as the star of his old life. "Hey," a guy says. "Aren't you? . . . " The guy is stumped.
"Dan Zanes," Zanes says, a little embarrassed. "From the Del Fuegos."
"Yeah!" the guy says, very pleased. 
Zanes always wanted to be in a band like the Del Fuegos. Growing up outside Concord, N.H., he developed a precocious awe of the early folk and blues and rock-'n'-roll greats. He picked up the guitar when he was 8 ("He was always very musical," recalls his mother, Hope Zanes Butterworth, a photographer and divorced mother who reared Zanes and his brother and sister) and began checking out old Leadbelly records as soon as he had a library card. He loved Gordon Lightfoot, the Band and Ian Tyson and Sylvia Flicker, the last two being heroes to this day. "People say that when Ian Tyson used to walk through the crowd at a folk festival, Bob Dylan would step aside," Zanes says. "He was a heavy, heavy cat." 
For high school, he won a scholarship to Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and in the course of baby-sitting one summer, Zanes fell in love with a neighbor's collection of Buddy Holly records. "While it seemed like everybody under the age of 30 in the state of New Hampshire was listening to Aerosmith and Led Zeppelin and David Bowie, I was completely obsessed by oldies radio," he says. In 1981, Zanes attended Oberlin College for a year, and while waiting in line for breakfast the first day, he decided to start a band with Tom Lloyd, another freshman. They moved to Boston, and with Zanes's brother, Warren, and a handful of Elvis songs, became the Del Fuegos. During the reign of punk, they played rock 'n' roll as progenitors of today's roots-rock revival.
At that time, the current rock-'n'-roll dad did most of the things that a rock-'n'-roll single guy does. He lived in a car, for example, a '66 Caprice, behind the Boston rock club known as the Rat. (Or at least people thought he and rest of the band lived in a car: the Del Fuegos actually lived in an old building in the South End that was heat- and-hot-water-free.) He went to loft parties and played and drank. "There was a long time," Zanes says, regretfully, "when I was glad that drinking was not only allowed but encouraged."
The band got big, in an indie sort of way. In 1983, T-Bone Burnett discovered them for Slash Records; in 1984, Rolling Stone picked them as a Best New Band. They recorded two albums -- Longest Day" and "Boston, Mass" -- and had a hit single, "Don't Run Wild." They were the Wilco of their day. They traded in the Caprice for a '57 Chevy panel van and then a more modern Ford Econoline, and finally for the standard giant tour bus that took them across America and then Europe, where there was more partying and encounters with women that did not involve discussions of early child development. In 1987, Zanes married Paula Greif, a director of commercials and videos, who had directed the Del Fuegos' video for "I Still Want You." "I got married at the peak of my powers," Zanes says.
Around the same time, the band began breaking up, taking its time, as bands tend to do. Its third album, "Stand Up," was called indulgent by critics. There were fights -- Zanes stopped speaking to his brother for a while; the original drummer was let go -- and there was more drinking on Zanes's part. In 1989, he tried another Del Fuegos album, "Smoking in the Fields," with a new lineup, but the band was over as a marketable phenomenon. "The bottom fell out of everything," he recalls. "Grunge was happening, and I felt like a dinosaur."
In 1991, Zanes moved to a farmhouse in Cornwallville, N.Y., in the Catskills, where he and his wife gardened and listened to hour after hour of gospel music. He gave up drinking. His daughter was born in 1995, the same year Zanes made his first solo album, "Cool Down Time," which was well received by critics but did not sell. Around then, he began hunting down old songs -- banjo songs, cowboy tunes, traditionals -- the same stuff he listened to as a kid.
"There's a book by Ruth Crawford Seeger, 'American Folk Songs for Children,"' Zanes says, "and she talks about the child's experience, understanding the world through music. And so I started thinking about that, and thinking about that was a whole lot more interesting than what I had been doing -- singing about old girlfriends to people that were roughly my age. That's what having a kid did for me. It exposed me to something that I'd forgotten about for 30 years."
The Boston gig is at a goodwill store in Somerville that is run by Wayne Viens, an old friend of Zanes's from the single-guy days of rock 'n' roll and an old hand in the Boston thrift business. "If it has been made by man it has passed through my hands," Viens says, as he walks around gathering thrift with which to decorate the stage: herds of old stuffed animals, a Georgia O'Keeffe print, a used Dipsy doll. Zanes pulls up in his station wagon two hours early, bright and fresh after a late dinner of gourmet pizza and ice water. He does a quick sound check and then searches through the racks with the band for onstage thrift. Kids and adults begin to arrive around 1, and with a few minutes to go, Viens passes out balloons. ("Keeps them occupied," he says.) Finally, Zanes takes the stage -- or the corner -- in a long plaid thrift jacket. Barbara Brousal wears a powder blue blazer, while Allyssa Lamb has on a 70's rayon blouse and purple plastic skirt; John Abbey is in a flannel shirt and an old straw hat. In the final moments before showtime, a mother fan says to a kid fan, "If you want to listen to Dan Zanes you have to put your shoes on." To which the kid replies, "But I always listen to Dan Zanes with my shoes off!"
The music starts with Zanes's trademark tremolo electric guitar. "Hey, everybody," Zanes says, low key but bright, introducing "Hello," one of his own compositions. "Sing-along would be great here, and you can sing along with the first song and you only have to know three words: Hello, hello, hello." Then he croons: "Every day brings more/than the day before./Open any door,/and say hello, hello, hello." Kids are immediately swaying; some know the words.
In a minute, the Rocket Ship Revue plays "Keep on the Sunnyside," the old Carter Family tune that Zanes has picked up as his anthem in his zealous promotion of what he calls the Family Band, which is to say any music made at home. "My dream is that families start playing music together," he says. "Actually, my real dream is that families start throwing out their television sets, but I'm going to stop saying that because my wife and my daughter will get mad at me." (Zanes's daughter sings on his first album, though his wife's musical contributions seem limited; he recently bought her an accordion, to no avail.) As at all rock concerts, there is in-between song patter, all of it based on the supposition that children are smarter than most adults give them credit for. "Does anybody know what this is?" Zanes asks.
"A banjo!" a boy comes back.
"Yes, and does anybody know where the banjo is from?"
"Africa!" the boy says. At this the band is momentarily blown away. 
"Wow!" Zanes says.
Once in a while, Zanes speaks to the parents: "Sometimes, I think, What can I do to set a good example for my daughter? And if you're thinking that now then, well, you could do the hokey-pokey." At this, the rooms goes wild, in a good way. Zanes sings "Goodbye Old Paint," an old cowboy song, and "Wonder Wheel," a pretty little song he wrote about going on a trip to Coney Island with his daughter's first-grade class: "I went to a weekend fair./Met someone while I was there./We put flowers in our hair,/and rode the Wonder Wheel." As they wrap up, Zanes says, "Are there any requests?" A child shouts, "Polly Wolly Doodle!" "That's a rock-'n'-roll song, right?" Zanes says, as he starts playing to cheers. "I think it's the oldest rock-'n'-roll song known to man." A little girl stares in awe as he hits the guitar solo. A boy in the back likes it all so much he falls asleep. "I hope everybody has a good weekend," Zanes says in parting, after about an hour, "and keep on singing and dancing."
When it's over, the parents are out of control with praise. "It was incredible," says Katie Champagne, keeping an eye on her two sons, Monty, 7, and Gibson, 4. "There's no hip kids' music. I just hate that sort of pandering, saccharine -- ehk!"
"It's really a service to parents," says Michele Burke, who is with her husband, Terence, their 3-year-old daughter, Thea, and Thea's new little brother, Eamonn. "It's not patronizing and it's not condescending."
A 7-year-old boy named Sam who has come with his grandparents says, "I don't like it, I love it!"
Wayne Viens happily surveys his Goodwill store, which is clearing out. "Uh, oh," he says. "I smell poop!"
On the drive back home in the station wagon, Zanes is pumped up with coffee and excitement. "There's nothing like driving away from something that went well," he says. He gets a little lost in Somerville but finds a health-food store where he picks up some unpasteurized juice and organic ginger snaps, then he gets out on the Mass. Pike and into Connecticut, the sun setting over the long green hills. John Abbey is driving back to Brooklyn with Barbara Brousal, while Allyssa Lamb is in Zanes's car. Zanes reviews the day, starting with the night before, which he spent in the bedroom of his friend's 5-year-old son: the rock-'n'-roll dad slept beneath Scooby-Doo sheets and looked out on another world. "I could see the trees outside," he says. "I could see the fish tank in the corner. I could see everything from the kid's-eye point of view, and it was so mysterious and rich and layered and everything. It was cool."
Zanes drives until late, stopping for gas and calling his wife and doing what people do in a car on a highway late at night in the cocoon of white noise and semidarkness: talk about music and the past and the future and life. At one point, he throws a tape in the car stereo. It's a mixed tape he made of old songs -- Pete Seeger, the Staple Singers, Ian and Sylvia. After a while, the New Lost City Ramblers start singing an old song, "Take Me Back to the Days of Childhood Play":
If I could only find my way back to yesterday,
To the golden days of my childhood play,
My life would be different.
My enemies would be friends.
My leisures not wasted,
My life so full of sin.
Zanes listens intently as he drives, and as cars pass and the sky gets darker, he shakes his head and grabs the wheel a little tighter. "Man, that's a great song," he says. "We have to do that song." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dan Zanes (Michael Edwards); The Del Fuegos, circa 1985: From left, Warren Zanes, Dan Zanes, Woody Geissmann and Tom Lloyd. (Wayne Viens) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); CHILDREN (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) MUSIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKET SHIP REVUE (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, ROBERT; ZANES, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



545 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: The Poor Man's Capitalist 

 BODY:
 Miller's article artfully combined the satire of Bulgakov, the irony of Gogol and economics high jinks not seen since Brecht's "Three Penny Novel." A less subtle approach might have included the smoky back room where a cabal of world bankers wring their hands over $9 trillion of assets locked up by the world's poor, too ignorant or stubborn to properly demarcate their property lines. But wait! We'll recruit some Panglossian pied piper: he will dress the indigenous dogs in suits; he will lead them them down to the courthouses, to the notaries, to the halls of records. They will howl their testimony. Once the dogs use the paper, as it were, once the property is officially owned . . . and we know the rest.

Verne Hendrick
Columbus, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (70%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: HENDRICK, VERNE; DE SOTO, HERNANDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



546 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 7-22-01: The Ethicist; 
Nursing School

BYLINE:  By Randy Cohen 

 BODY:
I believe in the benefits of breast-feeding and intend to nurse my second child as I did my first. However, this does keep a mother on a short leash and relegates even the most committed father to a secondary role of diaper-changing and occasional entertainment. Thus, I wonder, If a mother possesses the resources to breast-feed, is she ethically obligated to do so, and for how long? L.W., Staunton, VA.
 It is the ethical obligation of all parents to provide the best care they can for their children. In your case, believing as you do that breast-feeding is important for your child's (and your own) health, you should do so. For how long? You and your doctor should decide, and you may properly take into account life's other demands -- whether physical, emotional or economic. Your well-being is a legitimate part of this calculation. Many American mothers breast-feed for about a year; a woman in "The Last Emperor" kept it up until her charge was about 15, a practice that in my neighborhood would cause talk around the schoolyard. 
 Your breast-feeding need not preclude your husband's equal participation in child-rearing, which does not mean that each of you must (or indeed can) perform identical tasks. With sufficient desire, he will find many ways to compensate for his physical limitation, taking on more than diapers and peekaboo (or the noisome diaper-peekaboo). While male-lactation technology is in its formative stages, breast-pump technology is impressively advanced and affords some mothers the flexibility they seek. With bottles of breast milk in the refrigerator, your husband can feed the baby when you are away.
I recently referred an employee to my company, entitling me to a $5,000 finder's fee. I didn't know him personally. He had been laid off from a friend's company (because of cutbacks, not performance) and had asked his co-workers to forward his resume to people in the industry. Must I split the fee with the friend who sent me the resume? J.M., New York
The money is all yours. If you were soliciting resumes, you would be obliged to tell your friend about the bonus so that the two of you could come to an agreement about it. Similarly, if your friend knew about the fee and you O.K.'d his sending in resumes with that in mind, he would be entitled to a share.
However, because this referral arrived serendipitously, you have no obligation to split your fee. Although it would be generous of you to do so. Just as it would be generous of you to use that fee to buy me a new stereo. But officially -- and I have no idea what office I refer to; perhaps that of the baseball commissioner? -- that's not required, either.
Six months after being promised a performance-salary review, an employee still hasn't received it. He worries that, despite his best efforts, he is not doing a good job and suspects that his bosses fear that if they give him a review now, he won't merit a raise and they may lose him. However, they promised a review in writing. I am that employee. What are my bosses' obligations? Anonymous, Minneapolis
Your bosses' obligation is, of course, to keep their promise, and that's what you should tell them. (And if they promised you some sort of salary, you're entitled to that too.) What's more, there is a practical advantage to their doing so: you can't improve without knowing where you need improvement. While you may be disappointed to hear that you're not doing well, this confirmation need not crush you if it is presented with tact and kindness. Besides, if you really are doing as poorly as you fear, you would think they would be eager to lose you. Go figure.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREASTFEEDING (91%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); ETHICS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LAYOFFS (67%) NURSING OF INFANTS; ETHICS 

PERSON: COHEN, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



547 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
An Essential Element In the Voice Of Jazz

BYLINE:  By BRENT HAYES EDWARDS; Brent Hayes Edwards, an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University, is writing a book about jazz and literature.

 BODY:
FOR many musicians, the death of J. J. Johnson, who took his own life in February after a long struggle with prostate cancer, was the devastating loss of one of the giants of postwar American music. Johnson's departure was even more of a blow because it came so soon after the Ken Burns documentary "Jazz," which did not even mention Johnson and largely neglected his chosen instrument, the trombone.
 The history of jazz has almost exclusively been a story of great men on a limited set of instruments: the trumpet, the saxophone, the piano. A few historians, like Gunther Schuller and Gary Giddins, have offered overviews of the development of trombone style in jazz. What would it mean, though, to view the music itself through the lens of another instrument? What qualities in the music would emerge? Would we value different elements in jazz if we heard it, to borrow a phrase from the novelist Ralph Ellison, on the lower frequencies? 
 Clearly, the visibility of certain instruments has something to do with personalities. On his horn, Johnson was mercurial and astoundingly inventive, but by nature he was reserved, even austere. He was incapable of Dizzy Gillespie's voluble charisma, Charlie Parker's wrenching, vulnerable expressiveness, Miles Davis's edge and glamour or Thelonious Monk's alluring opacity. Musicians sometimes joke about the "types" who are drawn to various instruments, and even for more flamboyant performers (Roswell Rudd, Frank Lacy, Craig Harris), there's some truth to the image of the trombonist as the paradigmatic second-tier horn man, content to remain out of the limelight. This perception maintains its strength even though during the swing era, when jazz dominated American music, two of the most famous big bands were led by trombonists, Glenn Miller and Tommy Dorsey.
At the same time, prominence also has to do with tonal quality: the relatively piercing sound and projection of which the trumpet and saxophone are capable. Trumpeters and saxophonists may be prominent in jazz for some of the same reasons that sopranos and tenors are prominent in opera -- not because they're all outsize personalities, but because their instruments' tonal capacities command the attention of the human ear more forcefully than other horns. 
Still, the trombone provides a fascinating vantage point for the music because it is so indispensable (if overlooked) in jazz. Serving both ensemble and solo functions, it has proved more versatile than any instrument besides the piano. The multiple roles of the trombone emphasize the collaborative qualities of jazz, its shifting conversational fabric in which instruments offer not just individual statement but a variety of supporting interaction: foundation, embellishment, propulsion, provocation.
In the early years of jazz in New Orleans, musicians like Edward (Kid) Ory (who led the best band in the city, featuring at various times Joe Oliver, Johnny Dodds, Sidney Bechet and a teenage Louis Armstrong) developed "tailgate" style, in which the trombone serves as a hinge between melody and rhythm, improvising a sort of ground bass behind the trumpet lead and clarinet obbligato. In the 1920's, the trombone evolved as a soloing instrument in the hands of the New York musicians Jimmy Harrison and Miff Mole, and it contributed to the subsequent stylistic developments in the music, from be-bop (with Johnson and Frank Rosolino) to the avant-garde in the 1960's (with Rudd and Grachan Moncur III). Just as Anthony Braxton and Steve Lacy started exploring solo concerts on the saxophone in the 1970's, Albert Mangelsdorff and George Lewis were elaborating startlingly innovative, polyphonic solo vocabularies on the trombone, defying naysayers who had dismissed the instrument as unwieldy and lumbering.
Even if its tonal qualities seem less salient than those of other instruments, the trombone has been crucial to the sound of jazz, particularly in the big band. Its relative limitations in terms of velocity and articulation are offset by great flexibility in pitch and timbre (since the trombonist hits notes by moving the slide, rather than with a valve or key). This has been invaluable in a music that from its inception has been concerned with what the critic Albert Murray calls "reciprocal voicing," the common phenomenon of "singers playing with their voices as if performing on an instrument and of instrumentalists using their brasses, woodwinds, strings, keyboards and percussion as extensions of the human voice." More than anything, hearing jazz through the trombone would mean recognizing that the music is founded on "vocal instrumentation" -- ways of playing that imitate and expand the voice's expressive capacities.
In no other ensemble was this more apparent than the Duke Ellington orchestra, which between 1932 and the mid-1940's featured three of the greatest musicians ever to touch the trombone: Tricky Sam Nanton, Juan Tizol and Lawrence Brown. Ellington's son, Mercer, said that the trombones were Duke's favorite section, and it isn't hard to see why: in a band of irrepressible personalities, the trombones gave Ellington a palette of three extremely different voices on the same instrument. He started featuring a trombone trio almost as soon as he had one, in tunes like "Slippery Horn" (1933).
Ellington possessed an infinite grammar of timbral contrast, and the trombones provided much of that range. In "Harlem Speaks" (1933), Lawrence Brown takes a darting, limber solo on the open horn, and Nanton follows with a muted streetcorner declamation. A few years later, such juxtaposition was a familiar Ellington effect, employed most famously in "Ko-Ko" (1940), a 12-bar blues where Tizol states a four-note phrase that is answered by the reeds, and in the second chorus Nanton takes a muted solo over pulsing trumpets that is remarkable both for its economy and for its nuanced vocalizations.
Nanton's plunger mute playing hewed so closely to the contours of the human voice that the critic Vic Bellerby once wondered "whether to call him a great blues singer or a wonderful trombonist." The indefinite pitch of Nanton's horn, its uncanny growls and curdled "ya-ya's," reaches the same place that singers strain toward when they moan and shout and stretch vowels melismatically. In Nanton's hands, the instrument seemed to be capable of a whole range of meaning; as another critic, Richard Boyer, wrote in a 1943 profile of Ellington, Nanton's playing "sometimes sounds like an infant crying, sometimes like a bubbly, inane laugh of an idiot, and sometimes like someone calling for help."
The Ellington biographer Mark Tucker used to call the Ellington trio "God's Trombones," an allusion to the "Seven Negro Sermons in Verse" published in 1927 by the civil rights leader and Harlem Renaissance writer James Weldon Johnson. It is both an apt description of the otherworldly qualities of Ellington's section and an illuminating reference, since Johnson was one of the writers fascinated with the trombone as representative of a quality inherent in the African-American speaking voice. In his 1933 autobiography "Along This Way," Johnson commented on his choice of "God's Trombones" as a title for a book of poems based on traditional black folk preaching. He had fiddled with a number of metaphors ("Tongues of Fire"; "Trumpets of the Lord") before coming across the dictionary definition of the trombone as "the only wind instrument possessing a chromatic scale enharmonically in tune, like the human voice or the violin, and hence very valuable in the orchestra." For Johnson, the trombone was "the instrument and the word, of just the tone and timbre to represent the old-time Negro preacher's voice." Depicting a mode that in its ecstatic cadences approaches a wordless music (what Johnson calls "pure incoherencies"), he turns to a musical instrument that approaches human speech.
In April, the Center for Jazz Studies at Columbia University proved just how resonant this connection remains, putting on an event that combined a reading of Johnson's poetry and Ralph Ellison's fiction with a performance by the McCullough Sons of Thunder, a soul-shaking eight-trombone shout band that "preaches" weekly at the United House of Prayer on 125th Street.
If the trombone has been important because of its similarity to the voice, would it be possible to contemplate jazz singing through the trombone? At least one jazz singer, Leo Watson, used to mime the playing of a trombone when he scatted (extending and retracting an imaginary slide). The few mid-century recordings of the meteoric Watson are worth seeking out for their jocular, hipster stream-of-consciousness. Where it is often thought that jazz singing is most closely related to the trumpet, Watson's style (his attack, his imitation of glissandi and mutes) is clearly derived from the trombone. As a result, Watson is especially enthralling in the company of trombonists, as in his sparkling recordings with Vic Dickenson's quintet in the fall of 1945.
The trombone chapter in the history of jazz singing would have to start with Jack Teagarden, who was not just a groundbreaking instrumentalist but also an excellent singer. He is best known for his work with Louis Armstrong's All-Stars, but his earlier recordings are notable in that Watson was one of the few vocalists not molded by Armstrong's influence. His singing and playing, with their relaxed sensibility, similar range and lazy enunciation, were nearly interchangeable. The critic Whitney Balliett has written that Teagarden's voice drawled and smeared song lyrics as though he were "trying to abolish consonants in favor of a new vowels-only language." What would we learn by comparing the singing of say, Andy Bey or Cassandra Wilson not to a trumpet, but to the tonality and phrasing specific to the trombone? (Ms. Wilson's best-known recording may be her recent tribute to Miles Davis, but her first album as a leader, the 1985 "Point of View," featured Grachan Moncur III.) It shouldn't be surprising that jazz singers, too, have found in the trombone resources and means to extend the voice, just like the musician-preacher in Ralph Ellison's novel "Juneteenth," whose horn sounds "like his own voice amplified; persuading, denouncing, rejoicing -- moving beyond words to the undifferentiated cry."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A SGX deluxe model of the King 2102 tenor trombone. (King/United Musical Instruments U.S.A.)(pg. 23); J. J. Johnson, a giant of postwar American music, was mercurial and inventive as a player but reserved, even austere, as a person. (Associated Press)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); HISTORY (76%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); WRITERS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



548 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
In Newark Urban Desert, New Homes Begin to Rise

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
THE rundown blocks in the area off Route 78 near Newark Airport, splotched with boarded-up buildings and lacking such urban amenities as shopping and playgrounds, seem an unlikely nest for dreams of home ownership and community.
 Yet the place is proving to be a fertile incubator for visions of a better life. 
 Two model homes, each designed for two-family occupancy, stand like proud hatchlings at the corner of Hillside Avenue and Runyon Street amid the tired old denizens here -- a hulking abandoned warehouse, some empty weeded lots and dozens of two- to four-family apartment structures that have seen better days.
"Joe! Stop the car, Joe! That's the house I want," Mary Edmonds, who works for Verizon, remembers shouting at her husband, Joseph, who is a postal worker, as they happened to drive by the brand-new models one day last spring.
Mr. Edmonds pulled over. The couple took a look inside the brick-front colonials, available in two different styles, each with a three-bedroom, two-bath owner's unit on the second floor and a slightly less roomy tenant's apartment on the first floor, and they were sold. 
That was in May. The Edmondses close on their new home -- which is going up now, on property just behind the models -- in November.
Mrs. Edmonds's sister is all set to move in from Yonkers, find a job in Newark and occupy the first-floor apartment.
Mary Edmonds thought it was happenstance that she and her husband should be seriously thinking about buying for the first time, that they would instantly find the perfect house for sale, that it would be affordable with its own rental unit for income.
Actually, though, her excitement is taking flight entirely according to design. Mrs. Edmonds's classic American dream of owning a sparkling new home falls right in line with city planners' designs for Newark's future, not to mention the ambitions of the contractors who have been hired to create a whole new community in the South Ward.
"The lure of the American dream is alive," said Newark's mayor, Sharpe James, who grew up in a small rented house in the South Ward. "People want to own something. They want to own it."
Mayor James said that when he visits Southwyck Estates, as the development site has been christened, he always sees an interested buyer or two stop by. "And wherever I go, people come up to me," he added, "and they say, 'How can I get one?' "That kind of excitement is what's going to transform one of our oldest neighborhoods."
The developer for Southwyck concurs. "We're in it for the money, of course," said Peter Weissbrod, a principal in New Century Homes, who was smiling as he said it. "It's so great to get involved with a neighborhood, and a project with this size and scope."
Mr. Weissbrod said the battle over suburban sprawl in New Jersey is done -- and the results, for developers, have made urban areas more attractive. In the suburbs, "it takes years now to get anything through the planning boards," he said, "and it's just not worth it." 
But working with an urban center like Newark, which owns a huge inventory of vacant lots that it is seeking to turn into tax-paying properties, is a mammoth opportunity, Mr. Weissbrod said. He and his partners, who own and operate a number of affiliated and subsidiary companies, including Summit Real Estate Developers, which holds the contract in Newark, feel their own dreams revitalized, Mr. Weissbrod said -- "like we've found something to do for the next 20 or 30 years."
His company, based in Westfield, will build about 240 homes in the first phase of this program, by far the largest share of the 600 homes the city put out to bid last year, offering vacant lots at $1 a square foot. Newark is pursuing an ultimate goal of 1,500 new homes, which would double the owner-occupancy rate in the city to 50 percent. New Century will keep pursuing the contracts, Mr. Weissbrod said.
"This is a plan we can believe in," he said. "What's going to make it work is the two-family home."
Newark authorities are using a neighborhood stabilization program in Cleveland as a model. New Century looks to its own work in Plainfield, N.J., where it started building 200 to 300 two-family units a year ago.
T HE situation is somewhat different in Plainfield than in Newark," Mr. Weissbrod said. "There are only vacant lots in pockets, maybe two or three on a block -- and there are well-established neighborhoods, where here we need to create that. Some of the housing we're producing in Plainfield is subsidized in various ways, and buyers might need to meet income limits or other requirements.
"Here, the homes will all sell at market rate -- somewhere right around $200,000 -- and all buyers have to qualify for a mortgage." 
But the thrust is the same: attract working families to troubled areas by offering pride of ownership. At Southwyck Estates, this attraction is generating a powerful pull.
More than 100 people showed up at the first open house in March, and 10 contracts were signed that first week. A second open house in April drew several dozen more interested people. Drop-in visitors are lured by project billboards or, like Mary Edmonds, by sheer curb appeal.
What about the effect of the depressed area around Southwyck? The mayor promises that a new elementary school will be built soon and that commercial strips will be installed using a combination of federal block grant funds and other incentives to developers.
He notes that a new recreation center, the first to be built in Newark in 40 years, will go up near Southwyck Estates. Still, the present is not as prepossessing as the potential future.
"I turned up my nose at it at first," admitted Marcelle Beck, 52, whose husband, Ozzie, 56, insisted they tour the model homes before they were even advertised. He had spotted them on his way to work as a longshoreman at Port Newark.
However, Mr. Beck fell in love with the idea of the quick commute -- he intends to work quite a few more years -- and with the idea of owning brand-new property. 
The Becks have lived in an eight-room East Orange apartment for 15 years. "It's spacious," Mrs. Beck said, "but it's old, the owner is really old and it's becoming a problem."
The Becks have a music room with a white baby grand piano in their apartment. "Where are we going to put the piano?" Mrs. Beck said on the first tour of the Southwyck models. Mr. Beck immediately came up with an answer. His credit rating was found to be excellent when the financing counselors did a quick check at Southwyck. So the Becks decided to occupy both units in their new home and not take on a tenant. They have already inquired about customizing the house being built for them, to provide access between the units.
The developers have indicated they are willing to be flexible and to accommodate buyer preferences. New Century recently agreed to switch from modular construction, which was used in Plainfield, to "stick building," because Mayor James believed the more labor-intensive approach would mean more jobs at the site for city residents. 
FURTHERMORE, while the models were built with utility rooms, but no basements, New Century decided it would put basements in all of the homes because buyers generally say they prefer that.
The standard models offer buyers a number of choices. These include a choice between a traditional interior design, with a bay window, separate kitchen and dining area, or a more contemporary design, with a kitchen that opens into the living and dining area. Buyers may also decide between a pantry and utility closet, and they are given a choice of colors, carpeting, floor coverings, cabinets and fireplaces.
All of the homes are equipped with separate gas and electricity meters for the two units, as well as separate heat and central air-conditioning units. They have a single-car attached garage and two spaces on the paved driveway.
The city was very detailed in its specifications when putting the project out to bid, the mayor said. The handsome wrought-iron fences in front of the models were required in the contract, as was ceramic tile in the bathrooms.
"I love everything about it," said Mary Edmonds, about her new home.
"Then, she's my hero," said Mayor James.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stuart Fuchsman, left, and Peter Weissbrod, principals of New Century Homes, in front of two model homes in the South Ward in Newark. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Map of Newark, New Jersey highlighting the South Ward and site of new development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); NEW CAR MODELS (74%) HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



549 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2432 words

HEADLINE: Growth Stock: Corporate Apartments 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
WHEN the economy soars and corporations bring phalanxes of executives, consultants, associates and trainees to New York, the corporate apartment market thrives. 
 But a dip in the economy does not necessarily bode ill for corporate apartment providers. Budget cutters trimming employee travel expenses may well be attracted by the fact that, no matter how luxurious the apartment may be, it will probably cost less than a comparable hotel room for the typical stay, which ranges from a month to a year. 
 Though occupancy rates have declined this year, firms that specialize in leasing blocks of apartments, furnishing them with all the amenities of home and rerenting them to corporations are expanding their toehold in New York.
Many are increasing the number of leases they hold, and ExecuStay by Marriott is going one step further by laying claim to almost an entire residential Midtown tower being built from the ground up specifically for corporate clients. 
Until last year, the city was not a leader in the field. "But now, it is turning into one of the strongest markets both in the growth of demand and the growth in average rents," said Mark Skinner, a partner in the Highland Group, a consulting and research firm based in Atlanta that specializes in extended-stay lodging. 
The author of a study titled "Corporate Apartment Industry Report: 2001," which will be issued next month, Mr. Skinner said preliminary findings show growth to be continuing but at a markedly slower pace than last year. 
"The number of corporate apartments rented in New York City in 2000 was more than 20 percent higher than it was in 1999, and over the same period, the average rent also increased more than 20 percent," Mr. Skinner said. "This year I foresee that you won't sustain that same pace of growth. It will probably be in the single digit range." 
Nationally, he predicted that the rate of growth would continue at last year's pace of 5 to 10 percent. There are 75,000 corporate units around the country, but in the summer, peak season for employee relocation and the arrival of trainees, that number temporarily escalates to 100,000. 
As Sean Hennessey, director of the hospitality consulting practice for PricewaterhouseCoopers, sees it, the market is going through a period of contradiction. 
"We are hearing from extended stay properties that they see conflicting signs," he said. "They are losing some business due to cutbacks in corporate travel, but they have picked up business from companies that would have put their travelers in full service hotels who are now looking closely at corporate apartments as a more economical alternative." 
Studios typically range from about $3,000 to $4,000 a month. One-bedroom apartments command $3,800 to $6,000 and two bedrooms about $6,500 to $8,100 a month, significantly less than the $300 plus that is the going rate in luxury hotels. 
Firms that lease blocks of apartments or, in some cases, entire buildings from developers and landlords and furnish them and equip them with everything from complete kitchens to high-speed Internet systems, are reporting more vacancies this year than last. But how much of that is due to the economic downturn and how much to an expanding supply of apartments in the city is not clear. 
"Summer is the busiest time of the year because that is when people are relocating and when all the training programs begin," said James Coniglario, director of corporate services for D. J. Knight & Company, a relocation firm. "Last year was really tough and it was a challenge for us to secure all the housing we needed for investment banks and consumer product firms. This year the demand is as high, but there is so much more product. It has been easier for me to secure housing and to be able to negotiate great prices for clients this year."
Oakwood Worldwide, a national company with headquarters in Los Angeles, has had a drop in occupancy here from 95 percent in 2000 to 85 percent this year. "But last year we had about 280 units in our portfolio, whereas this year we have about 500, so I think we are doing phenomenally well," said Noel Hernandez, Oakwood's senior district manager for New York. Still, he did note: "Last year, the pace was frenetic, especially with summer associates and interns. One financial company alone had close to 1,000 summer associates come here, and this year it went back to normal with closer to 600."
Furnished Quarters, a three-year-old local firm, is reporting a slight slippage in its occupancy rate from 97 percent last year to 95 percent this year. But, said Steven Brown, president of the company, "Last year we had 180 units. This year we have 350 and we are planning to add 150 more in the next few months. By the end of 2002, we will be up to 500 and we think we have only scratched the surface of the client base." 
THIRTY percent of his listings are in town houses the firm owns, where rents range from $2,600 for a studio to $6,200 for a three-bedroom duplex. "Prices are 25 to 30 percent less than they are in doorman buildings," Mr. Brown said. "A lot of people in the theater and Europeans like the town house experience." 
Though the business traveler is the main target consumer for corporate housing, Mr. Brown said, "we also get theater people; athletes who have been traded to teams here; people who are renovating their homes; unfortunately, people visiting hospitals; and a lot of divorces. That's a good market -- men who call and say, 'Help, my wife just kicked me out of the house.' " 
Some of the business is flowing out of the city. "Our Manhattan rentals are down about 10 percent so far this year, but our New Jersey rentals are up 15 percent," said Jason Eisenberg, corporate relocation director for Churchill Corporate Services, which operates in the tristate area. "Where Manhattan was the only option last year, now corporations are willing to place people 10 minutes away in Jersey City or Brooklyn Heights for savings of at least 10 to 15 percent a year." Churchill rents about 400 apartments in Manhattan and another 800 scattered through Westchester, New Jersey and Connecticut. Mr. Eisenberg was not yet ready to sound an alarm, but he conceded: "It's too early to tell what will happen. We're hoping to maintain where we are. We're not looking for growth this year. We just want to hold down the fort." 
Alternative Business Accommodations, a four-year-old company, entered the corporate housing market in 1997 and doubled its inventory from 30 to 60 apartments in its first year. "Since then we have gone up in number by 50 percent every year until this year," said Frank Laufer, the president. "Now we are not forecasting more than 10 percent growth."
In addition, he said: "We have noticed the clients are here for shorter stays. The 60-day average has dropped to 45 days. Some corporations are asking for smaller apartments, and some are looking to double up two people in two bedrooms. Clearly, cost consciousness is in the air."
One exception to the slack is the Phillips Club at 66th Street and Broadway, which opened as an extended-stay hotel in 1996 and later expanded into the former Chinese mission next door to include transient hotel accommodations and luxury time-share apartments. 
Though its apartments are at the high end -- with studios renting for $6,000 or more a month and two-bedrooms for $11,000 to $12,000 a month -- occupancy is up slightly over last year. The average stay is 100 days, according to Matthew Hall, the spokesman for Millennium Partners, the developer of the club. 
Shop talk in the industry is mostly focused these days on what companies are giving up some of their units as they stand empty, sending them back to the open market.
"As leases come up in the third andfourth quarters of the year, we will return some properties, so our inventory may go down somewhat," Mr. Hernandez of Oakwood said. "This business is very cyclical, so in the fourth quarter we always see a dip. We want to be prepared if the dip is even greater this year." 
ExecuStay, which was acquired by Marriott International in 1999, has been the target of much speculation on the part of its competitors that it had a bloated inventory and was being forced to relinquish some of its excess units. David Lorenzo, general manager of the New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut market, denied that there was any downsizing in the works. 
"In a few cases, we have consolidated our inventory," he said. "For example, we recently gave up six units in a building in Battery Park City, returned the leases when they expired and took six units in a building across the street where we already had 40 units." The company manages an inventory of about 1,000 apartments scattered through some 100 buildings in the metropolitan area. 
"In New York, our goal is to concentrate 60 percent of our inventory," " Gary Abrahams, president and chief executive of ExecuStay, said. "There are efficiencies to be gained and we can offer a better level of service."
Had demand not fallen off since last year, he said he doubted that the company would relinquish any leases. "We couldn't find apartments then, but now things are cooling down." Nevertheless, the company is forging ahead with plans to expand. 
Last month, ground was broken at Third Avenue and 37th Street for a 30-story tower that will be almost entirely taken over by ExecuStay, and five months ago, it began filling a new 56-unit building on West 22nd Street in Chelsea. 
IT has also signed a 15-year lease on a 204-apartment building at 160 West 24th Street called the Chelsea that was recently bought by Townhouse Management and Pine Equity for $72 million. ExecuStay already has 29 units there in its portfolio and will add the remainder as leases expire. 
"This is still a very new business and in many markets, including New York, there is plenty of room for us to grow," Mr. Abrahams said.
Although ExecuStay apartments are filled for the summer, Mr. Lorenzo said it is offering reduced rates for people booking reservations now for the time between November and March, generally a slow period. "We haven't finalized plans yet, but it could be anywhere from 10 to 35 percent off current pricing," he said, adding, "That's simply good revenue management." 
The first building to be constructed from the ground up specifically for ExecuStay, the Third Avenue site, which is steps away from the Queens Midtown Tunnel, will be particularly convenient for travelers needing proximity to airports, like sports figures and United Nations diplomats.
There are distinct advantages to starting from scratch. "We are not constricted by the prior development of smaller units," Mr. Abrahams said. "Units can be constructed and designed for the specific needs of the business traveler with working areas, areas in which to relax and sleeping area."
Also a joint venture of Townhouse Management and Pine Equity, the residential tower will contain 145 apartments, 126 of them studios and one-bedrooms to be leased by ExecuStay. The remaining 19 apartments will be two-bedroom duplexes that will be sold to the public as condos. 
Clad in limestone, the building will have a 24-hour doorman, gym, conference center and storage space among its amenities. Ofer Resles, president and chief executive of Pine Equity, said he expected the average rent for a one-bedroom unit to be about $6,000 a month. 
From the developer's vantage point, Mitchel Maidman, chief executive of Townhouse Management, said: "It is less risky to build a 30-story building this way than to do it without a tenant. And it is apparently great for them because they will rent out the units for substantially more than they will pay us." 
Other companies are taking over entire buildings as well. Furnished Quarters, for example, assumed the leases on more than 40 units at 316 East 63rd Street last October. "It was a brand new building that was finished by M-1 Properties with us in mind," Mr. Brown said. "They will be building another building within the next year that we will occupy."
Mr. Hernandez of Oakwood said that his company, which had its start in the 1960's as the developer of garden style communities for singles in California, was considering putting up its own buildings but that it was premature to divulge details. "We have a few deals in the negotiating stages," he said. 
Despite its standing as the financial nerve center of the country, the city has always had a relatively modest supply of corporate accommodations.
"The available inventory has never been there," Mr. Lorenzo said, predicting, "Things will loosen up now because for the first time since corporate housing became popular there is inventory available. 
"Last year there was an overwhelming demand for traditional rentals in Manhattan and an insufficient supply," he continued. "In 2001 supply has caught up with demand because a number of buildings under construction have been completed. As demand has leveled off, developers are more willing to consider leasing blocks of apartments to corporate housing companies."
"In addition," he said, "all the myths about corporate housing -- about the wear and tear of people moving in and out -- are being dispelled. It has become accepted in high-end rental and condo buildings." 
CLEARLY, there is room for newcomers like BridgeStreet Corporate Housing Worldwide, which began filling its first outpost here, 85 John Street, a rental apartment house where it has taken 32 units, in May.
"Certainly it is easier to enter this business in a more robust market," said David McCaslin, president of MeriStar Hotels and Resorts, which acquired BridgeStreet for $60 million a year ago. "Business is down, and there is less relocation and less consulting work, but we did not go into the New York market for the short term. We currently have over 700 units in London and 500 in Toronto, and we think we can handle that many, if not more, in New York." All told, BridgeStreet has 3,700 units in 29 cities in this country, Canada and England. 
In addition to the monetary savings it offers, corporate housing has lifestyle appeal. "Hotel living can be great for a week, but living out of a suitcase gets boring," Mr. McCaslin said. "We have executives coming to town for projects lasting 30 to 90 days or so. A hotel room is too confining for that length of stay, but they don't want to go into unfurnished apartments and be bothered setting up a second home for a place where they won't live in the long term." 
Besides, he added, "No one wants to have to pay $3 for a can of Coke from the service bar or $4 for a bag of peanuts."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Brown, president of Furnished Quarters, on East 74th Street, where its four town houses hold corporate apartments.; Noel Hernandez, senior district manager for New York at Oakwood Worldwide, in a corporate aparment at 1 West Street. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); A rendering of the 30-story tower at Third Avenue and 37th Street that will be taken over almost entirely by ExecuStay for corporate apartments.(H. Thomas O'Hara, Architect)(pg. 1); ExecuStay has signed a 15-year lease on the Chelsea, left, 160 West 24th Street; BridgeStreet Corporate Housing has 32 units at 85 John Street. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (73%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (71%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (71%) HOUSING; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



550 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: RELIGION; 
A Man of the Cloth

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL 

DATELINE: PASSAIC 

 BODY:
Ronald Coleman had just bought what he thought was the perfect Brooks Brothers suit, a black, single-breasted Italian pinstripe, marked down to about $800. Despite its apparent stylishness and superior tailoring, Mr. Coleman, a lawyer, suspected that the suit had one major flaw.
 He brought the garment to the laboratory of Rabbi Avrohom Aronovitch of Passaic, where his suspicions were confirmed. The garment contained shatnez around the lining of the jacket collar. 
 The prized suit couldn't be worn until the offending material was removed.
Little-known outside the Orthodox Jewish community, the law of shatnez prohibits the wearing of any garment that has a mixture of lamb's wool and linen. These days, the testing of clothes, rugs and even upholstery is on the rise as more people adopt the Torah's prescribed regulations.
"Some people refer to it as wearing kosher clothes," said Rabbi Aronovitch, 39, a professional tester whose home laboratory serves the shatnez needs of customers from northern New Jersey, Rockland County and parts of New York City. "People understand kosher food, so it's a way for them to understand without actually having to give an in-depth explanation."
Even the most learned of rabbinical scholars are uncertain about the underlying reason for the laws. Some trace their history back to the biblical story of Cain and Abel -- saying that joining these two opposing forces allow powers to exert destructive forces on the world -- while others contend that the wearing of shatnez has a generally negative spiritual effect, a sort of Jewish version of bad karma.
In his 1988 pamphlet "A Guide to Shatnez," Rabbi Dovid Loebenstein wrote: "There is a body of laws whose rationale the human mind can appreciate. On the other end of the spectrum, there is a smaller body of statutes not given to rational explanation."
While shatnez falls into the latter category, Rabbi Loebenstein emphasized that it was an important act of faith to observe the practice. That is where testers like Rabbi Aronovitch come in. 
The rabbi has been in the business of testing for shatnez for four years -- a second career that he performs part time when not teaching elementary school at a yeshiva in Queens -- filling a need in the burgeoning Orthodox Jewish communities of Passaic and Clifton.
His home office looks part retail showroom, part biology lab -- Brooks Brothers meets Louis Pasteur.
It is a successful sideline with little competition. Rabbi Joel Schocket, a shatnez tester at the Rabbinical Seminary in Lakewood, said that only a handful of people tested for shatnez throughout New Jersey.
North Jersey Shatnez, as Rabbi Aronovitch calls his business, is situated in a small room on the first floor of the two-story home he shares with his wife and seven children.
The office is filled with men's, women's and children's clothing waiting to be tested. On the bulletin board is his latest alert to customers: "Check J. Crew Hats for Shatnez."
On his desk sits the primary tool of his trade, a microscope, which is used to examine microfibers. Like an excitable child playing with a chemistry set, Rabbi Aronovitch placed a fiber from Mr. Coleman's collar on a slide, then squeezed a droplet of olive oil on the fabric to separate the threads. 
"Linen looks like bamboo," the rabbi said as he peered through his microscope. "Distinctive wool has a scaly appearance. Linen fibers are smoother than some others. Silk for example is shinier."
Four years of shatnez experience has made the rabbi savvy about the types of clothing most likely to contain shatnez. Suit collars, waistbands and shoulder pads are usually the most problematic areas. Clothing labels only provide the guidelines, he said, noting that at times an item labeled 100 percent wool will still have a shatnez problem.
With that, he brought out a woman's suit labeled 90 percent viscose, 6 percent wool and 4 percent other fibers. It was the "other fiber" label that sounded the alarm.
And despite what some people expect, the more expensive a garment, the more likely it is to contain shatnez. Indeed, many of the high-end suits use linen to reinforce the collars, something not done as frequently in cheaply made garments.
Once a garment is discovered to have shatnez, a tester cuts away the forbidden material and a local Clifton tailor, Stefan Gorzelany, replaces it with another fabric, usually cotton. The rabbi charges from $7 to $10 to routinely check each garment, and $15 to $40 for repairs. When the alterations are completed, the rabbi places his own shatnez-free label on the garment. 
He makes regular visits to Nordstrom's, Neiman Marcus and Bloomingdale's in Paramus, all stores with a large Orthodox clientele. Amy Jones, a spokeswoman for Nordstrom in Seattle, said that the demand for shatnez testing at the Paramus store had sharply increased in the past few years.
The rabbi examines both handmade European suits and less-expensive clothes straight off the discount rack. Initially skittish about cutting up pieces of $3,000 Armani and Brioni suits, experience has made him steadier with a pair of scissors.
"Rabbi Aronovitch is one of the best economic indicators in the Orthodox community," Mr. Coleman observed. "How much business and the quality of the garments he tests are indicative of how flush people are."
Before the arrival of Rabbi Aronovitch, Mr. Coleman recalled that most observant Jews from the North Jersey area took their clothes to Brooklyn or waited for the occasional visit of an elderly traveling tester from Munsey, N.Y.
At the Lakewood facility, Rabbi Joel Shochet and his partner do their own testing, train aspiring testers from around the world and promote the practice of shatnez.
It takes about six weeks of classes to become a tester, and Rabbi Shochet said he had found that the vocation's appeal was transcending just rabbinical scholars. For instance, he said that a computer programmer from Washington and a urologist from Phoenix had decided to pursue testing as a second career. 
Few can make a living exclusively from testing, though Rabbi Aronovitch said that money was only a small part of the equation. Customers usually do most of their testing before weddings, bar mitzvahs and holidays, so a tester becomes part of the community's most festive celebrations. 
It also seems to be a recession-proof business, said his client, Mr. Coleman.
"If you can afford a $1,200 suit," he said, "you're not going to be losing sleep about paying $50 for shatnez testing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In his Passaic home, Rabbi Avrohom Aronovitch uses a microscope to analyze clothing. Wearing garments containing both wool and linen is prohibited in Orthodox law. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (76%); CHILDREN (72%) APPAREL; JEWS; WOOL AND WOOLEN GOODS; LINEN AND LINEN SUPPLIES 

PERSON: ARONOVITCH, AVROHOM (RABBI); KOEPPEL, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



551 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Marcy Reher, Lance Spacek

 BODY:
Marcy Jill Reher and Lance Joseph Spacek were married on Friday by the Rev. John Laferrera at St. Aloysius Roman Catholic Church in Caldwell, N.J. 
Mr. and Mrs. Spacek work at Salomon Smith Barney in Manhattan. She is an executive secretary in mergers and acquisitions, and he is a vice president for investment banking in technology.
 The bride, 27, is also a doctoral candidate in criminal justice at the City University of New York Graduate Center. She graduated from Manhattan College and received a master's degree in counseling psychology from New York University. She is a daughter of Sandra and Albert Reher of New Springville, Staten Island. Her father is a music teacher at Intermediate School 51 in the Port Richmond section. Until last month, her mother taught the eighth grade at the Immaculate Conception School, a parochial elementary school in the Stapleton section. 
 The bridegroom, 32, graduated from North Carolina State University and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a son of Patricia and Thomas Spacek of Albuquerque. His mother retired as the director of management services at the Lehigh Valley Hospital and Health Network in Allentown, Pa. His father, also retired, oversaw economic analysis of telecommunications and Internet services at Telcordia Technologies, a software company in Morristown, N.J. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (57%); PSYCHOLOGY (55%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%); TELCORDIA TECHNOLOGIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: REHER, MARCY JILL; SPACEK, LANCE JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



552 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: N.J. AND COMPANY; 
A Winery Changes Its Face

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: EGG HARBOR CITY 

 BODY:
The joke about this village in the flat farmland of central Atlantic County is that there are few eggs, no harbor and not much of a city.
 Much of the area surrounding the small main street as well as the White Horse Pike -- overgrown with gas stations and convenience stores -- is sliced up into several-acre lots of developed about a hundred years ago. 
 Those developers sold the land mostly to first- or second-generation German families looking for a rural respite from Philadelphia. The roads are redolent with that heritage: Frankford, Vienna, Hamburg and, most prominently, Bremen. 
On Bremen Avenue, a couple of miles outside of town, lies the Renault Winery, the oldest continuous commercial winemaker in New Jersey, founded in 1864 and sprawling over 1,400 acres. Even during Prohibition, Renault stayed in business by producing sacramental wines and Renault Wine Tonic, a 22 percent alcohol brew sold in pharmacies for a variety of ailments.
In the last decade or so, though, the Milza family, which bought the winery in 1977, has cut back on wine distribution, saying that it is too hard to ship its product and compete against the larger wineries. Renault still makes wine -- mostly for sale in New Jersey -- but the Milzas felt they needed to do something more in their relatively remote South Jersey outpost.
Thousands of cars whiz past each week headed for Atlantic City, only 16 miles away. And though 16 miles can seem endless to people in South Jersey, it is just a short ride to Philadelphians and New Yorkers. Such reasoning gave birth to the Tuscany House, which opened in April with 50 rooms, a restaurant and banquet facilities. 
The land on which the Tuscany House -- sand-colored with Northern Italian accents -- was built on virtually untouched land adjacent to the winery and retained as a buffer from development.
For a while, promoters of Egg Harbor City thought a metropolis would sprout there, especially after the late 19th century resulted, when travelers heading south from Philadelphia had to switch trains in Egg Harbor. But a jetport in the pinelands -- proposed in the 1950's and 60's -- never came, and Egg Harbor never flowered.
Still, Renault has flourished, with busloads of tourists passing through; on some weekends as many as three wedding receptions a day are held in the old winery.
"We thought there had to be a way to convert some of those buses and weddings into overnight stays," said Lana Aylwin, the general manager of the Tuscany House. "And then we thought even bigger."
Undertaking a study, the owners found that several golf resorts had opened within 50 miles in recent years, including an extension of Blue Heron Pines and Pine Hill Golf Club. The Tuscany House now puts up several people at Blue Heron Pines, about eight miles away. But, more importantly, it has contracted Arthur Hill, a well-known golf course architect, to build an 18-hole course that is expected to be ready next summer.
"We have some issues with the trees and environmental permits, but that will only make it a more beautiful course," said Ms. Aylwin. "We prefer, though, not to say we're in the middle of nowhere, but in a great and unexpected rural setting." 
Prices are clearly not middle-of-nowhere. On summer weekends, the rooms -- small but quaint with free Internet access and ample bathrooms -- cost $150 to $190 a night, and at the casual northern Italian restaurant entrees are $12 to $24.
And as might be imagined, there is little to do except tour the winery, have dinner or stroll among the pines.
"Look, we're not going to get the person who wants to spend all night gambling in Atlantic City," said Ms. Aylwin. "But if you are coming down from New York and want a quiet night, maybe go into Atlantic City for a show and come back to the country, we're hoping we are it."
Or, as she put it, "Now you can have that extra glass of wine after the wedding and sleep it off here."
An owner of a smaller winery in South Jersey said he well understood Renault's experiment. "The wine business is tough, and they have decided to de-emphasize it," said the winery owner.
Bill Walker, the state Department of Agriculture liaison to the wine industry, concurs.
"Because of the economies of scale, it is hard even for bigger wineries like Renault to compete on a national scale," said Mr. Walker. "They have to make themselves into agritourism."
To be sure, said Ms. Aylwin, the winery is still the main draw.
"In fact, we feature the Renault wines at the new restaurant, and people tend to order them," she said. "I don't think we'll ever be a major international winery again, but it will always be a big part of the package for people who find us here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We thought there had to be a way to convert some of those buses and weddings into overnight stays," said Lana Aylwin, general manager of the Tuscany House in Egg Harbor City. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (86%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); WINE (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); RESORTS (71%); GOLF (61%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RESTAURANTS; GOLF; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: RENAULT WINERY (EGG HARBOR, NJ); MILZA FAMILY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT; HILL, ARTHUR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%) EGG HARBOR (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



553 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Paid Family Leave Would Protect Livelihoods 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 A report by New Jersey Policy Perspective, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that conducts research on state issues, shows a majority of people favor using disability or unemployment insurance surpluses to finance a paid family leave program in New Jersey. The report went on to say that working parents who put the needs of their families first sometimes have no choice but to quit their jobs, hoping that someday they will be able to find another comparable job. 
 If New Jersey were to establish a program that would require employers to allow employees to take time off to tend to ill family members or newborns -- parents would not feel compelled to choose between their families and their jobs.
I have sponsored legislation that would prevent parents from having to make such a difficult decision. If signed into law, my measure would make New Jersey the first state in the nation to establish a paid family leave program, enabling employees to take up to 12 weeks of paid leave to care for an ill family member or stay at home with a newborn or newly adopted child. The program would not cost taxpayers any additional money because it would be financed by the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which already has a $3 billion surplus.

ARLINE M. FRISCIA
Woodbridge

The writer is associate Assembly minority leader.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY LEAVE (92%); FAMILY (92%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PARENTS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%) LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: FRISCIA, ARLINE M (ASSEMBLYWOMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



554 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: TAXES; 
HOMESTEAD REBATE INCREASE

BYLINE:  By Anne Ruderman 

 BODY:
 Acting Governor DiFrancesco last week signed legislation that will increase to $750 the maximum property tax rebate for elderly and disabled citizens. 
The payback, called the Homestead Rebate, had not increased from $500 since 1990. The increase will cost the state an extra $144 million a year. Starting next year, the maximum Homestead Rebate will automatically increase annually to match the rate of inflation. Anne Ruderman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); AGING (87%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; AGED; HANDICAPPED; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REBATES 

PERSON: DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV); RUDERMAN, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



555 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ECONOMY; 
UNEMPLOYMENT

BYLINE:  By Anne Ruderman 

 BODY:
 Unemployment in New Jersey rose to 4.5 percent in June from 4.3 percent in May, as New Jersey lost 5,100 jobs, mostly in manufacturing. 
Although the state unemployment rate has been at or below the national rate for 19 months, it has increased steadily since the beginning of the year. The only June employment gains were in retail trade and the services industry. Mark Boyd, the state labor commissioner, attributed some of the increase in unemployment to auto industry layoffs and a strike at Pepsi. Anne Ruderman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: BOYD, MARK (COMR); RUDERMAN, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



556 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB; 
A Welcome Mat, or a Banana Peel?

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Yes, a fresh chapter in life can be exciting. And when that new chapter involves new employment, the initiation can prove enlightening, whether it leads -- literally or figuratively -- to a bed of hot coals or a bed of roses.
 In 1986, Kevin Fox, now of Overland Park, Kan., began his first day as a junior engineer for an electric utility in the New York metropolitan area. He was told that he would have three consecutive meetings: the first one would be with the plant manager, the second with the chief engineer and the last with his direct supervisor, who was the maintenance engineer. 
 At the first meeting, the plant manager told Mr. Fox how he ran things in his plant -- and that the most important thing for Mr. Fox to remember was to inform him of anything the chief engineer told him to do.
At the second meeting, the chief engineer said that he ran the plant, and that the most important thing for Mr. Fox to remember was to tell him of anything the plant manager told him to do.
At the third meeting, Mr. Fox's immediate supervisor, the maintenance engineer, said -- you guessed it -- that he was the person who actually ran the plant, and that most important thing for Mr. Fox to remember was to inform him of anything that the other two managers told him to do.
"After working at the plant for a few months, I came to realize two important facts," Mr. Fox writes. "First, I had to keep everyone above me informed as to what I was working on, and second, that none of them was actually running the plant.
"That function was being performed by Dolly, the woman who worked as the secretary for all three managers."
"Several years ago, I accepted a position with a small, prestigious firm," writes Elise Lee of Carmel, N.Y. "I was told that the firm's policy was to serve a catered corporate lunch each day. And it was as described.
"You can imagine my utter surprise, however, when I was given a list of rotating kitchen detail. That is, each secretary was expected to do kitchen duty at least one day a week."
That included clearing dishes from each boardroom, rinsing them, loading the dishwasher and wiping down counters.
"It took us almost three years to leave the Paleolithic period behind us as we successfully evolved to an Age of Enlightenment," she said.
"A kitchen staffer is now a part-time member of our family."
On her first day on the job, Jackie Herskovitz was asked to walk on fire -- a 12-foot-long path of it.
"Yes, walk -- with bare feet -- on glowing orange coals that averaged 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit," writes Ms. Herskovitz, who lives in South Boston and is the marketing director at the Insight Development Group in Hopkinton, Mass.
She says her boss did not demand that she do the firewalk, "but since Insight Development Group provides experiential training and motivational seminars to managers and sales teams at large corporations across the country, I thought it would be wise for me to participate."
So, after sitting in on a two-hour development session for sales executives of a large data storage company, Ms. Herskovitz found herself walking away from her belongings and from the safety of the seminar room.
"Outside we gathered around what was the most violent, raging bonfire I'd ever seen," she says. "We stood in a circle, seeking comfort in the fire's warmth from the cold March night."
The boss, she says, "asked us to close our eyes and envision successfully walking across the path."
Then he shouted, "Let go of your fears!" Ms. Herskovitz and the others threw into the fire a paper upon which they had written their ultimate fear. Hers was fear of failure. The paper turned to ash.
"As simple as it seems, I knew, after throwing my paper into the flames, I would be able to achieve all that I desired," she writes. "Walking across a path of fiery coals was just the first step.
"And then I waited. Waited in a line of jittery people for my turn to approach the path. My bare feet were numb as I jumped on the cold pavement.
"Brand new coals, straight from the fire, were shoveled along the path before me."
As she took her last step -- onto a cool, wet pad of grass, she heard the cheers. "And that was my first day on the job," she says. "It's been exciting ever since."
"Despite the Internet-tech sector crash, remnants of the heyday of start-up mania are alive and well in 2001," writes Jonathan Dunn of Manhattan. Recently, he said, "in my first 48 hours at NYPR, a boutique public relations firm catering to technology clients, I had two free meals, a 15-minute massage, plus Corona beers and margaritas as a tribute to a co-worker relocating to Mexico. 
"I also worked with a client who was launching a business with cool technology and $28 million in funding in the bank," he added. "In 1999 this may not have been news, but during an economic downturn it made me do a double take." 

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (56%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (56%) LABOR 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) KANSAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



557 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1085 words

PERSON: Anne Stevens 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Comfortable With the Fast Track

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
AS a 15-year-old racing fanatic, Anne Stevens longed to hang out with the mechanics in the pits at the stock car races near her home in Reading, Pa. But girls weren't allowed.
 So she borrowed a baggy shirt and trousers, tucked her hair under a cap and finagled her way in. "If you looked dirty, they didn't bother you," she recalled. 
 Now she is a major force in another arena where women once weren't welcome. On July 12, she was chosen as vice president for North American vehicle operations at the Ford Motor Company, where she is in charge of 29 assembly, stamping and tool-and-die plants. It was her second promotion in three months; she had been vice president for North American manufacturing.
Mrs. Stevens, 52, is easily the most powerful woman in American automotive manufacturing; factory management has always been a male domain. Friends say she has a clear view of what she wants to accomplish.
"Anne is impatient with the need for change and is certainly unrelenting in driving for change," said Joel Cutcher-Gershenfeld, director of the Engineering Systems Learning Center at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. But, in comparison with other executives, he said, "she truly expects it to be based on data and knowledge, not some out-of-the-blue event."
Mrs. Stevens said she would focus on two important goals: ensuring that all Ford plants adhere to its uniform productivity and quality standards, and that morale at Ford's plants remains high.
Her task will be difficult. Ford has suffered a series of blows to its reputation. It is embroiled in a $3 billion recall of Firestone tires on Ford Explorers. Its market share is falling. It ranked last among seven major car companies in J. D. Power & Associates' most recent survey of quality. And its factory productivity, long Detroit's best, fell in 2000, as measured by the annual Harbour Report, while General Motors gained ground.
In an interview at Ford headquarters here, Mrs. Stevens did not flinch from the criticism. "The customer votes," she said. "We've got a lot of work to do."
In fact, Mrs. Stevens said she was pleased to see G.M. improve its plants' performance. "It's great that American manufacturing isn't gone," she said. "I don't want to see jobs lost to competition" from foreign rivals.
Mrs. Stevens showed similar calm last August, when the Ford Escape, a small sport utility vehicle, was recalled five times in its first month on sale. The task of informing her of each new problem fell to Chuck Maitland, director of manufacturing operations, who reports to her.
"It was never about personalities; it was never about, 'who's the culprit,' " Mr. Maitland said. Instead, Mrs. Stevens wanted to make sure that Ford fixed the source of the defect.
Mrs. Stevens, who is married to Bill Stevens, a retired auto supplier manager, and has a grown son and daughter, has been interested in finding answers since her own inquisitive youth.
While keeping her invalid mother company, Mrs. Stevens said she used to make pencil holes in the dining-room wall behind her mother's chair, peering at the sawdust and wiring. In science class, she was fascinated by dissecting frogs.
She won a nursing-school scholarship but found she was not cut out for medicine. She switched, studying mechanical and materials engineering at Drexel University in Philadelphia. 
Drawn to Detroit by her love for cars, she spent a summer working in Ford's stamping operations in Dearborn. But she ultimately took a chemical engineering position at Exxon, choosing it over 11 other job offers she received upon graduation. For a time, she was based at Exxon's refinery in Linden, N.J., where she loved climbing the soaring towers for a view of Manhattan.
Three events in the late 1980's prompted a career shift. An animal lover who breeds pedigreed dogs and cats, Mrs. Stevens was shocked by the environmental damage from the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska in 1989. "I would have been out there, cleaning the beach," she said. 
Then a friend's death in a car crash caused Mrs. Stevens to wonder about her own life's purpose. She decided to enroll in New York University's business school, where she encountered W. Edwards Deming, the quality expert who helped postwar Japan revive its factories.
Impressed by her persistent questions, Dr. Deming called her home one Saturday afternoon and invited her to study with him. She said he taught her important lessons: "You must listen to the people and the process. If you don't have the respect of your organization, you cannot be as effective as you could be." 
Her work with Dr. Deming eventually brought her back to Ford, where Dr. Deming had been a consultant a decade earlier. After starting in a marketing position in 1990, she moved to manufacturing in 1992 and in 1995 was appointed plant manager at Ford's electronics and plastic molding factory in Enfield, England. She was the first woman to be a Ford plant manager in Europe. 
Mrs. Stevens said her male colleagues went out of their way to introduce her to other professional women so she would feel at home.
One new friend was Sara Allen, the founder of Answers, a behavioral consulting firm based in London. Hearing that Mrs. Stevens had arrived, Mrs. Allen, who is from Johnstown, Pa., called her office and invited her to supper that evening.
With their husbands on assignment elsewhere, the two expatriate women became traveling companions and often discussed issues facing the business world.
Mrs. Stevens has great strength as a strategic thinker, Mrs. Allen said. "She has this wonderful sense of, "I need to do this, this and this in order to make this over here happen," she said.
In dealing with a problem, Mrs. Stevens first asks for data, then often goes directly to the assembly line for a closer view. She tries to visit at least one plant a week, she said, and communicates constantly by e-mail with plant managers, union leaders and other employees whom she called "my pen pals." 
Initially, said Mr. Maitland, who had never worked for a woman, "there might have been a tendency to underestimate her experience." 
Actually, Mrs. Stevens said, she encountered more resistance earlier in her career than she has at Ford, where she has assembled an informal network of 400 women in Ford's white-collar work force. One subordinate at Exxon refused to take a job working for a woman. "I said, 'I can do anything about the job description, but I can't doing anything about this,' " she recalled. "The man kind of looked at me. And then he took the job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Stevens, center, a top Ford manufacturing executive, and Kathy Pruchnik, a worker, checked out a Thunderbird on the assembly line at the company's plant in Wixom, Mich. (Jim West for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (86%); AUTO RACING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MARKETING SURVEYS (67%); RANKINGS (64%); MARKET SHARE (62%) AUTOMOBILES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; WOMEN; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (53%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%) FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 5108 (TSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (53%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

ANNE L STEVENS (91%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE; STEVENS, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



558 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Bruce L. Bartlett and Christopher M. Leavy; 
Atlas Growth and Income Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
THE two managers of the $388 million Atlas Growth and Income fund work together, but each follows his own investment discipline.
 Bruce L. Bartlett, the lead manager, picks growth stocks, while his co-manager, Christopher M. Leavy, says he is a value investor. "Growth guys and value guys are very different," Mr. Bartlett said. "We put on our pants differently. But we're closer than most." 
 Regardless of the approach each uses, Mr. Leavy said, "We're both very sensitive to the earnings prospects of the companies we own."
Like many growth-and-income funds, the Atlas fund now emphasizes growth stocks because corporate dividend yields are generally low. As a result, it is classified in the "large growth" category by Morningstar Inc. It returned 5.1 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended Thursday, versus 0.5 percent for its peer group and 2.1 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar. It lost 21.4 percent in the 12 months ended Thursday, versus losses of 33.7 percent for its peers and 17 percent for the index.
The managers meet at least weekly to review the fund's 68 stocks. Mr. Bartlett, 51, and Mr. Leavy, 30, work for Oppenheimer Funds in New York, which manages the fund for Atlas Advisers in San Leandro, Calif. They are also co-managers of the $3.6 billion Oppenheimer Total Return fund, using similar investment strategies; the charter of the Atlas fund, however, prohibits it from buying tobacco stocks.
Mr. Bartlett looks for companies with revenue growth of at least 10 percent a year and earnings growth of at least 15 percent -- both now and over the next three to five years, on average.
"We're trying to differentiate between companies that have strong earnings growth and companies that can sustain their growth," he said.
He also combs balance sheets to gauge earnings quality. A material decrease in a backlog of orders, for example, indicates deteriorating revenues and earnings, he said.
Mr. Bartlett separates this research from valuation analysis. "I don't want to be prejudiced by a stock's price before digging into the business itself," he said. "You can be hesitant to jump into an expensive company, and attracted to cheap ones."
His earnings focus has led him away from technology stocks, now just 11 percent of assets versus 19 percent for the S.& P. 500, and toward financial issues, now 27 percent versus 18 percent for the index.
"Financials are very insulated from the capital-spending recession we're currently experiencing, and benefiting from the declining interest rate environment," he said.
By contrast, Mr. Leavy calls himself a classic value investor who looks for companies with price-to-earnings or price-to-book multiples below those of the S.& P. 500. But cheap is not enough; he wants to seegrowth, too.
"What separates value companies is that some will produce big earnings gains down the road, and others will fail to do so," he said. His analysis centers on projecting earnings or cash flow over the next three to five years, and evaluating what the company would be worth to someone acquiring it.
One stock that meets the criteria of both managers is Freddie Mac, the mortgage packager. The fund bought shares in October 2000 for $57.52, adjusted for splits. Mr. Bartlett expects earnings growth of more than 20 percent in each of the next three quarters, over the corresponding periods of the previous year, based on a strong housing market and declining interest rates. Freddie Mac shares are relatively cheap, Mr. Leavy said. "The valuation is in line with other quality financials," he said, "but the projected growth rate is higher." Now trading at $67.56, it sells for 16.31 times 2001 earnings.
Mr. Bartlett also likes Kohl's, the discount chain that sells apparel and household goods. The company, based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., has been expanding from the Midwest to the Eastern Seaboard, Mr. Bartlett said. He expects earnings and revenue growth of more than 20 percent a year over three to five years.
He bought shares in October 1999 at $35.21; they now trade at $58.40.
Mr. Leavy likes the News Corporation, the Australian media company whose American depositary receipts are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. "The stock sells at a significant discount to what we think it's worth," he said, "if you add up the value of all of its assets" -- including newspapers, satellites and the Fox Entertainment Group.
The company is negotiating with General Motors to gain control of Hughes Electronics, which runs the DirecTV satellite television business. Mr. Leavy expects that some satellite assets will be spun off, shrinking the valuation gap, and he anticipates improving cash flow at Fox, driven by higher syndication revenue. He bought the Class A A.D.R.'s in October 2000 at $33.84; they now trade at $30.64.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce L. Bartlett, left, fund manager and avid windsurfer, picks growth stocks for the Atlas Growth and Income fund. The co-manager, Christopher M. Leavy, takes a value approach. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times) Chart: "Atlas Growth and Income" Category: Large-cap growthNet assets: $388 millionInception: December 1990Managers: Bruce L. Bartlett since June 1995 and Christopher M. Leavy since October 2000Minimum purchase: $2,500 ($250 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 66%3-year annualized return (Class A shares) through Thursday: 5.1%Category average: 0.5% SECTOR BREAKDOWN Electronics: 8%Other: 63%Computer hardware: 8%Communications equipment: 7%Electrical utilities: 7%Gas utilities: 7% FEES Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.02% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); BONDS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLAS ADVISERS; OPPENHEIMER FUNDS INC 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; BARTLETT, BRUCE L; LEAVY, CHRISTOPHER M 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



559 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: The Tabloid Public Is Not the Majority 

BYLINE:  By Andrew Kohut; Andrew Kohut is the director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The country has been inundated with news about Chandra Levy, the missing Washington intern. The coverage has seemed almost nonstop on cable television news, and the story has been Topic A on the chat shows. Even Dan Rather, who had resisted covering what he considered a tabloid story, had to give in and let his news show include a summary of the search for Ms. Levy and the initial reluctance of Representative Gary Condit to help Washington police by talking with them about his last meetings with her.
 The relentless, sensational coverage might make observers despair about the tastes and values of the American public. But in fact, most Americans are not captivated by the Chandra Levy story. 
 The latest nationwide news interest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press finds only 16 percent of Americans "very interested" in the story -- a low number not only in absolute terms, but compared with the percentages of people highly interested in other celebrity scandals that we have polled about over the years: the O. J. Simpson story had 48 percent of respondents "very interested" at its peak, and the Bill Clinton-Monica Lewinsky scandal had 36 percent.
Even less prominent incidents generated more intense interest than Chandra Levy's disappearance: for example, the "very interested" figure was 32 percent for both Mike Tyson's rape trial and Marion Barry's legal problems, and 27 percent for William Kennedy Smith's rape trial in Florida.
So what's going on here? Are the news executives misguided about what appeals to their audiences? The answer is no. Television news producers get instant feedback from the ratings, and they know what makes the needle move. But at the same time, what works for cable television shows watched by relatively small audiences does not necessarily have broad public appeal.
A central problem in television journalism today is that audiences are so fragmented that it takes only a small increase or decrease to make a big economic difference to the networks. If a cable show regularly draws 600,000 viewers, an increase to 900,000 is a very big deal. And all that's required is a story that appeals to the minority of the public that is attracted to news about celebrities in trouble -- regardless of disinterest or even outrage about extensive coverage from the majority of the public.
There is a tabloid audience that goes from one saga to the next. Last year, at the height of the Elian Gonzales news craze, a nationwide Pew survey found that an extraordinary 61 percent of that story's core audience had also been strongly attracted to news about the death of John F. Kennedy Jr. in a plane crash in 1999. The overlaps did not stop there: fully 73 percent of those drawn to news about Mr. Kennedy had been close followers of the unending accounts of the untimely death of Britain's Princess Diana in 1997. And it comes as no surprise that large percentages of each of these core audiences had also been closely attentive to the O. J. Simpson murder trial and the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal.
Our poll found that one-third of the public followed three or more of these stories -- about Elian, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Simpson, Princess Diana, and Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky -- very closely. The vast majority of the public (67 percent) was much less interested: 34 percent gave none of these tabloid best-seller stories a lot of attention, and 33 percent were closely attentive to only one or two of them.
So far the Chandra Levy audience has not matched those for the tabloid heavyweights of the recent past, but these are slow news times even on the tabloid scene. The Levy-Condit story has become prominent enough to bring many of the commentators whose faces became so familiar in the O. J. Simpson case back to the TV screen.
Cable news and talk shows and the print tabloid media have little to lose and much to gain in the short run by pitching to the hard-core audience for celebrities' misfortunes. But past surveys show the vast majority of the public is put off by coverage of these stories that is so extensive as to be inescapable for viewers.
Most Americans blanch at the blatant exploitation of the people being covered, and they indicate in surveys that they feel the press pursues stories like these not to protect the public interest, but to enlarge audiences. These same surveys show significant numbers of Americans doubting the worth of the traditional watchdog role of the press.
One can only question the wisdom of alienating a large percentage of a public that now has the ability to screen out the news it does not want by turning to the Internet. And despite the short-term gains from the tabloid news coverage, cable and broadcast news audiences continue to decline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (67%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%) MISSING PERSONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: PEW RESEARCH CENTER 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%) KOHUT, ANDREW; LEVY, CHANDRA ANN; CONDIT, GARY A (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



560 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
In 1,500 Earnings Reports, Mixed Signals

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Corporate earnings ruled Wall Street last week, as almost 1,500 companies reported their profits and offered forecasts into their futures. The results left a mixed and murky picture. 
 Investors celebrated positive earnings from companies like Nokia and Dell Computer. But much of the week had negative earnings news, which reached its apex late Thursday when Microsoft said sales and profits would be sluggish in coming quarters. EMC, Intel and AOL Time Warner also reported profit shortfalls. 
 Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, unsettled investors further, warning that the economy might "require further policy response." That led to speculation that the Fed was more likely to cut interest rates when it meets on Aug. 21.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 37.59 points, or 0.36 percent, to 10,576.65. But the Nasdaq composite index fell 55.42 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,029.37. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.83 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,210.85.
 In the bond market, optimism about further cuts in interest rates helped push down the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to 5.11 percent from 5.22 percent the previous week. SHERRI DAY

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" SCI SystemsNYSE: SCISanmina, an electronics manufacturer, is buying its bigger and older rival, SCI Systems, in a deal valued at about $4.5 billion. The merged company would be a giant in electronics component manufacturing.Friday's Close: $25.69Week's Change: +2.07%EST. '01 P/E: 19.26 USA NetworksNNM: USAIThe media company run by the Barry Diller agreed to buy Microsoft's 75 percent stake in Expedia, a leading online travel agency, as part of a plan to create vacation channels on television and the Internet.Friday's Close: $26.95Week's Change: +6.69%EST. '01 P/E: -- CitigroupNYSE: CFueled by the boom in consumer banking and interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, the company reported a 14 percent gain in second-quarter profits.Friday's Close: $50.56Week's Change: +3.48%EST. '01 P/E: 16.78 American ExpressNYSE: AXPThe financial services company said it would eliminate 4,000 to 5,000 jobs and take an $826 million pretax charge in the second quarter because of losses from aggressively investing in junk bonds.Friday's Close: $37.98Week's Change: -3.51%EST. '01 P/E: 25.91 AllstateNYSE: ALLThe home and auto insurer's second-quarter profit fell 47 percent, worse than expected, reflecting the impact of storm-related insurance losses and an increase in homeowner claims.Friday's Close: $33.15Week's Change: -22.00%EST. '01 P/E: 11.83 Compaq ComputerNYSE: CPQThe personal-computer company changed the way it intends to sell products to large corporations, emphasizing an increased reliance on its services division to improve profits.Friday's Close: $14.70Week's Change: -3.42%EST. '01 P/E: 37.03 Sun MicrosystemsNNM: SUNWThe computer company posted its first quarterly loss in more than a decade, as orders from Europe and Japan continued to dwindle. Company executives would not speculate on the timing of a recovery.Friday's Close: $15.03Week's Change: -3.90%EST. '01 P/E: 35.36 PepsiCoNYSE: PEPProfit for the second quarter rose 16 percent after the food and beverage giant increased sales with new Frito-Lay snacks and with soft drinks like Mountain Dew Code Red.Friday's Close: $46.24Week's Change: +1.76%EST. '01 P/E: 27.99 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BOND MARKETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: AOL INC (72%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (72%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BARRY DILLER (55%) DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



561 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Logging Plan for West's Burned Forests Incites a Debate 

BYLINE:  By JIM ROBBINS 

DATELINE: HAMILTON, Mont., July 18 

 BODY:
It was a year ago that wildfires roared through the forests of the rugged Bitterroot Valley here, consuming 70 homes and more than 355,000 acres of forest. But controversy sparked by the fires still smolders. 
 The Forest Service, which manages most of the forest land in the valley, is considering letting loggers harvest as many as 73,000 acres of blackened trees that are standing like a ghost forest on the burned hillsides. 
 Craig Bobzien, the acting deputy forest supervisor for the Bitterroot National Forest, said logging would prevent thousands of trees from blowing down and creating a fire threat for homes scattered throughout the ponderosa forests in a scenic mountain valley that has been a magnet for retirees and others seeking a rural existence. 
"We'd like to reduce the fuels from 50 to 60 tons an acre, to 15 to 20 tons an acre," Mr. Bobzien said. "Fighting fires in the forest is preferable to fighting fires in people's backyards. Last year, we were fighting in people's backyards."
But conservationists say the logging being considered here, and in other burned areas of the West, amounts to government capitulation to the timber industry and can do serious damage to the environment.
"Logging is proposed everywhere, under the guise of thinning and fuel reduction," said Robert Ekey, the northern Rockies regional director of the Wilderness Society in Bozeman, Mont. "And some of the cutting can't be justified ecologically at all."
The proposed sale of logging rights in the Bitterroot, which should be decided in September, is seen as a national test case. It would be the biggest such project, which the Forest Service calls burned-area recovery, in the lands devastated in last year's record fire season, when 92,000 fires blackened an estimated 7.4 million acres. 
Conservationists and some scientists say the biggest threat to the forest from postfire logging is damage to soil from heavy equipment, new roads and dragging logs, as well as damage to streams as disturbed soil washes into them. 
Some scientists say it is best for the land to be left alone. Dr. Wayne Minshall, a professor of ecology at Idaho State University, has studied the effects of fire on streams for 35 years. While in the first few years after a fire the ash, mud and burned trees can kill fish and widen channels in streams, over several years the streams recover on their own and become biologically more robust. 
"Human efforts to mitigate," Dr. Minshall said, "exacerbate the impacts" of the fire. 
But Ellen Engstadt, executive director of the Montana Wood Products Association, who recently toured a burned area in the Helena National Forest, said: "If anyone goes out there and says it's healthy and it will recover itself, he or she is crazy. It's a part of good solid forest management to get out there and do some work."
And Mr. Bobzien said that great care would be taken to cut and drag logs in winter, when the ground would not be disturbed, and to create buffers around streams, where timber would not be cut.
Logging is a contentious issue in this 70-mile-long valley just south of Missoula. In the 1970's, the Bitterroot was the focus of pitched local and national battles between environmentalists and the Forest Service over the practice of clear-cutting. 
The valley had the state's fastest-growing population, according to the 2000 census, and many of the residents came here to enjoy life in one of Montana's most scenic mountain valleys.
At the same time, the valley has a tradition of logging and lumber production. Many of those operations have closed in recent years, but have been replaced with a thriving economy focused on building log houses. 
Logging and forest rehabilitation are at odds with the philosophy of Yellowstone and other large Western parks governed by the National Park Service, where burned forests are allowed to recover on their own. But publicly owned forests have a mandate to allow multiple uses, which include commercial activities like logging. 
Ms. Engstadt said burned trees need to be cut soon, because after 18 to 24 months they dry and start cracking and lose their value as two-by-fours and other commercial products.
Some in the industry point out that Montana has already sold trees and begun logging on burned state land, while the fate of cutting on federal land is still in limbo. "There's a great suspicion that a lot of the discussion going on is a delay tactic, which will reduce the opportunity for salvage," said Pat Connell, the vice president for resource operations of Rocky Mountain Log Homes. 
Mr. Bobzien, meanwhile, seems resigned to the contentious debate. "We're going to be sitting in our rocking chair talking about fire and fuels," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ponderosa pine trees in Montana's Bitterroot National Forest that were burned in last summer's record wildfires. The Forest Service wants to allow loggers to cut them down, but environmentalists are protesting. (Jeremy Lurgio for The New York Times) Map of Montana highlighting Hamilton: More than 357,000 acres were burned in the Bitterroot Valley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (93%); FOREST FIRES (92%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (92%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FIRES (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (85%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (85%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WILDERNESS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; FIRES AND FIREMEN; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES 

ORGANIZATION: THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%) FOREST SERVICE (US) 

PERSON: ROBBINS, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: HELENA, MT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) BITTERROOT NATIONAL FOREST (MONT)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



562 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Drag Racing 21st-Century Style 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Every weekend night, Newman Shiue, 21, an electrical engineering student at U.C.L.A., leaves the apartment he shares with two roommates, a stuffed Winnie-the-Pooh and his Bruce Lee posters, and heads to North Hollywood in his sleek white Acura Integra GSR. 
 Mr. Shiue and dozens of other young men converge on "the track," a wide, deserted stretch of road in a dingy industrial area. Like the others, he zigzags around potholes to avoid scraping the lowered chassis of his street racer, its chrome exhaust pipe shimmering in the night. 
 About 70 cars, many of them Hondas and other "rice rockets," as modified Japanese imports are sometimes called, lined both sides of the track on a recent Friday night. Like a demonic Virginia reel, the racing began: an Integra paired with a Mazda, then a Mustang with Mr. Shiue's supercharged Integra. As 1 a.m. neared, the air was thick with the smell of rubber. 
When the police arrived, it took less than a minute for the racers, wheels shrieking, to vanish into the murk. By 2:05 they were at it again.
Similar scenes are repeated in dozens of cities every weekend, from Los Angeles to Bayside, Queens, in the latest retelling of an old story about young Americans and their cars. Where the open roads and dry lake beds here once lured street racers in 1930's Ford roadsters stripped of their fenders, running boards and luggage racks, and later in rumbling V-8's and brilliant, candy-colored lowriders, today's James Deans are young people like Mr. Shiue.
They spend $10,000 and more to add turbochargers, 18-inch rims, computerized fuel controllers and supercharged engines to their mothers' grocery-schlepping Hondas and Acuras. Mr. Shiue's Integra can go 140 miles an hour and do a quarter-mile in 14 seconds.
"Speed is an addiction," Mr. Shiue (pronounced Shoo) said one afternoon recently as he tinkered in a friend's garage. "I beat an M33 Porsche Boxster. These guys are so cocky -- they're driving a Porsche. I drive this little $20,000 economy car, and I take them out. I spank them."
Just as lowriders, with their flashy hydraulic suspensions, took root in Latino culture, import racing reflects the new demographics of California. "First, the white population had influence, with their V-8 muscle cars," said Dominic Chang, owner of Robocar Motosport in West Covina. "Then came the Hispanic lowriders. Now it's Asian culture."
The import-racing scene first emerged among young Asian-Americans in Southern California, but has become increasingly mainstream and multiethnic as it has spread across the country. Its pioneers were "carheads" like Mr. Shiue's cousin Edward Wu, 25, who grew up in Gardena and now sounds like a geezer. "Back then," Mr. Wu said, meaning the mid-90's, "it was a big deal if you had a muffler. Now it's, 'What kind of engine you got?' "
To old-timers like Pete Chapouris, 58, a hot rod builder in Pomona, Calif., there is more than a flash of recognition. "The Civic is the new '32 Ford," Mr. Chapouris said. "It's the need for speed -- to go faster, impress the girls, blow your buddies off." The new hot rodders "have no reference to what went on 50 years ago," he added. "They're just doing it because."
The transformation of Honda Civics and other compact cars into racers -- or cars that look like them -- has become a major industry.
Retail sales of turbochargers and superchargers, aggressive-looking body kits, high-performance tires and other accessories climbed 59 percent last year, to $1.2 billion, according to the Specialty Equipment Market Association, a trade group. At least four magazines and numerous Web sites chronicle the movement. Races show up on ESPN2.
Major automobile makers market high-performance turbocharged sedans, such as the Integra Type R and Subaru WRX, that can do a 12-second quarter-mile en route to the supermarket. Racers can buy computerized engine-management systems and programming software for injecting power-boosting nitrous oxide into a car's fuel lines.
Mr. Shiue and his friends consider themselves purists, shunning body kits and other flamboyant touches. A clean look also draws less attention from the police, since many modifications are illegal.
They mocked as ridiculous the race scenes in "The Fast and The Furious," the new movie about the import-racing scene.
"It's a Hollywood version of what they think kids are doing," Mr. Wu said. "It's not how much junk you put on your car. It's the cars that look messed up that are really fast."
They also complained about the dearth of Asian-American characters. "They're shutting out who originated all this," Mr. Wu said. "They're using the wrong people."
The film does depict how multiethnic the scene has become. This was also on full display one recent night in the parking lot of Imperial Rose Plaza, a shopping mall in Brea, Calif., as hundreds of young people gathered with their cars.
Sabour Amirazodi, 18, a student at Cal State Fullerton, pulled up in a Honda Civic with a blue neon interior and a cable of turquoise lights running around the dashboard. "This is kind of like an art fair," Mr. Amirazodi said.
The movie has also spawned police crackdowns around the country. In the Sun Valley section of North Hollywood, home of two tracks popular with Mr. Shiue and his friends, the police cited 212 spectators, arrested 7 drivers and race "flaggers," and impounded 91 vehicles the night the film opened.
No national statistics on street-racing fatalities are available, but law enforcement officials say the dangers are serious. Racing accidents in North Hollywood have killed 25 people, including spectators and passengers, since 1995. Someone is killed or badly injured there at least once a month, said Kenneth Garland, commander of the Foothill Division of the North Hollywood police.
In Ontario, Calif., the police recently installed rows of 3-inch-high bumps on four major racing streets to discourage racers. Fremont, near San Francisco, imposed stiffer penalties on racers and spectators.
The crackdowns echo those of the late 1940's and 1950's, when "the hot rod menace" inspired the formation of the National Hot Rod Association, which advocates organized drag races. Drag strips were built here with the help of civic groups like the Lions Club. But four major strips in Southern California have closed in the last 20 years, and many racers say that is a major reason they take to the streets. The only legal amateur drag strip in the area is about 40 miles north of Los Angeles.
In San Diego, where street racing has killed at least 14 people in three years, San Diego State University started a pilot program, "Race legal," which sponsors amateur drag racing at Qualcomm Stadium.
In Broward County, Fla., the sheriff's office sponsors legal drag racing for amateurs at Moroso Motor Sports Park in West Palm Beach. "You can't tell an adolescent, 'You can't race,' " Dean Mirra, a deputy sheriff, said. "So we tell them, 'Take it to the track.' "
Despite the risks, said Dave Coleman, an editor of the magazine Sport Compact Car, street racing would survive even if every corner had a drag strip.
"The two guys at the stoplight will still want to go for it," Mr. Coleman said. "It's just the competitive nature of human beings."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Newman Shiue, 21, checked the high-powered engine of his car.; Two cars awaited the signal to race at 2 a.m. recently on an industrial back street in North Hollywood. (Photographs by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); SPORTS CARS (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%) AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%) HONDA MOTOR CO; ACURA DIVISION OF HONDA MOTOR CO 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



563 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2973 words

HEADLINE: FUJIAN, U.S.A.: A special report; 
Within Chinatown, a Slice of Another China

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
Bi He Liu rested his head against the sun-baked window of the Happy Travel bus and tried to enjoy the rare sensations of motion and light. Six days out of seven, Mr. Liu works a 3 p.m.-to-3 a.m. shift as a cook in a suburban Philadelphia restaurant. He rarely sees the sun -- or much else beyond the kitchen stove and the two-room apartment he shares with six other men.
 "The boss and the pots and pans and the other workers," said Mr. Liu, a stick-thin former farmer from Fujian Province on China's southeastern coast. "That's it." 
 But this was Monday, the day of rest for Chinese restaurants. From Philadelphia, and from other lonely outposts around the country where most toil as dishwashers and cooks, Fujianese immigrants like Mr. Liu were on the move. 
Every Monday, they converge on the one place in their fragmented American universe where everyone speaks their dialect and businesses cater to their needs.
From cities like Miami and Chicago, Fujianese couples come to hold their wedding banquets in velvet-draped restaurants. Others come to shop, bank, meet friends, consult doctors, visit travel agencies and pay bills. Isolated by their lack of English during the week, they spend the day wandering, as Mr. Liu dreamily phrased it, among "mountains and seas of people."
This singular place is Fujianese Chinatown in New York City. And by midmorning, when the Happy Travel bus discharged its 40 Fujianese passengers onto East Broadway, the usual Monday spectacle was in full swing.
Since immigrants from Fujian Province began flooding into the United States in the fetid holds of smuggling ships like the notorious Golden Venture, they have built a vibrant refuge for themselves in a grimy corner of Lower Manhattan.
There is no fixed border between their neighborhood and the more gentrified Chinatown to the west, where the city's Cantonese-speaking population established a base more than a century ago. Yet the Fujianese Chinatown is as self-contained, and confining, as a rural village.
Its isolation is surely a temporary condition, a gathering of strength before the dynamic Fujianese claim a dominant place in the larger Chinese establishment. 
They have already begun to exert political influence within the greater Chinatown, long the exclusive domain of Chinese from just one province, Guangdong, and particularly from just one county, Taishan. Social and economic power could soon follow.
For now, though, the Fujianese enclave is struggling with its own growing pains, brought on by the peculiar exigencies of the people-smuggling business. 
Each change -- first the influx of young men after perilous sea journeys, now the arrival of single women and children on relatively safer air routes -- makes new demands on Chinatown. Once it tailored itself to the rough-and-ready needs of bachelors. Now families strain the neighborhood's housing and educational resources.
Fujianese leaders in New York estimate that at least 300,000 Fujianese are now scattered across just about every state. Precise figures do not exist because most of the immigrants entered illegally. Lacking even rudimentary English, they went straight into the least visible, low-wage jobs in restaurants and garment factories.
The smuggling business still casts a shadow. Passage can cost $40,000, a crushing sum in light of the poverty of Fujian Province, a mineral-rich area of farms and fisheries where only 9.8 percent of the 33 million people complete high school and the average yearly income for city dwellers is $785. 
It can take five years of unremitting work here to break clear of the debt, leaving parents too little time to raise their children or learn English.
Their desperation, then, makes them highly desirable as laborers. And Fujianese Chinatown has created its own coded vocabulary to fit their circumstances. In the neighborhood's storefront job agencies, employers make clear their preference for the hard-working Fujianese. Most job postings include a notation in Chinese that translates as "no north," meaning people from northern provinces need not apply.
While many people have now washed enough dishes and cooked enough meals to pay back the money they borrowed for their passage, some are finding themselves trapped by a lack of skills in the fierce economic competition among the Fujianese.
And so on Mondays, East Broadway explodes with the energy of frantic job hunters and sharp-elbowed street hawkers, along with courting couples, petticoated brides preening in rented finery, and a din of conversation -- intimate, conspiratorial and full of laughter born of familiarity.
Into it, Mr. Liu, the Philadelphia cook, stepped happily. He mapped out a day that included a visit to a Fujianese herbalist to cure his stomach pains. Then a stop at the Bank of China branch to wire home most of his $1,900 monthly salary to pay down his smuggling debt. Finally, he said, he wanted an hour of "relaxation" with one of the prostitutes waiting for the Monday crowds.
"Today," said Mr. Liu, "I feel alive."

Monday, Monday
Cramming a Week Into Just One Day
Jacky Yeung, 35, is a man who lives by Mondays. On that day, when Fujianese Chinatown bursts with out-of-town shoppers, his mobile phone is always ringing. His beeper is always buzzing.
Based behind a countertop in the Triple Eight Palace on East Broadway, he sells phone cards to sidewalk retailers. Business has not been the same since a lot of other young Fujianese joined in.
A year ago, he could sell 100 minutes of calling time to China for $20. To sell a card for $20 today, he has to offer 300 minutes. Mr. Yeung now has to share his little niche in card sales with competitors who have a bit of cash to invest after repaying their smuggling debts.
"These Fujianese just want to start a business, any business," he said. "They don't think they'll kill all the business."
Mr. Yeung's strength and weakness is his territory. Fujianese Chinatown, barely four square blocks of century-old tenements and cubbyhole shops, has become a made-to-order enclave. The compact quadrant of Lower Manhattan is so comfortable that many may never develop the will or the skills to break from its embrace. 
Here, business is conducted in the Fuzhou dialect, the most commonly understood dialect of Fujian Province but one that other Chinese do not speak. Thousands of Fujianese living outside New York wait until Monday, when they get to Chinatown, to do their banking, get their hair cut, buy videos, book a trip or buy groceries. Retailers live for Mondays, when they earn about 80 percent of their weekly income.
What drives this Chinatown are people like Yi Ni Lin, a chubby cook in a restaurant in Cleveland who speaks no English. His co-workers select one person each week to travel to New York to do their shopping.
Mr. Lin had his list in his head: three phone cards for himself and each of his four co-workers, two Chinese videos, some packages of ginseng for strength and a few Fujianese-style stuffed rolls that he knew would go stale on the bus ride home.
For himself, he wanted to wire money back home to Fuzhou, the provincial capital. He had borrowed most of the $28,000 he paid a smuggler. With his salary of $2,100 a month, minus money for his parents, he figures he will be free in three years. 
For now, he permits himself one small luxury. "I like to have tea in the restaurants," Mr. Lin said. "I like to look at all the people."
But the same factors that helped make New York's Chinatown a homey retreat for Fujianese have also made it a trap. Concentrated in a small area and largely dependent on the Monday windfall, the Fujianese businesses are beginning to feed on themselves.
Recently, several new buses have appeared to challenge more established ones for the business of ferrying Fujianese immigrants to East Broadway from up and down the East Coast. A ticket for the Philadelphia-New York round trip has been driven down to $10 from $26 just last year. 
Sometimes, when business is slow, drivers who cannot wedge their buses into the front of the line offer a trip to Philadelphia for as little as $3, sometimes provoking fistfights.
"You see that?" asked Qidan Chen, a bus driver, pointing to an empty bus parked in a prime spot just off East Broadway. "It just sits there even though it's not in service. He just wants to hold that space and steal the customers away from the rest of us."
The cutthroat economics have also intensified the demand for residential and commercial space close to East Broadway and pushed rental prices beyond the reach of most immigrant entrepreneurs. So landlords have now started to subdivide the available property -- and subdivide again.
Philip Lam, a neighborhood real estate broker, arrived from Fujian Province in 1984 and rose from dishwasher to developer. He is especially proud of his renovated apartment building near East Broadway.
Where there were three rooms, Mr. Lam reconfigured the space to make five, each one rented out to a group of workers or one of the growing number of Fujianese families.
The pressure for commercial space is equally intense. In the Triple Eight building, a squat indoor shopping mall that has served as the Fujianese Grand Bazaar, a space measuring just two feet by four feet now rents for $800 a month. There is a long waiting list.
"All the Fujianese come here for the convenience and because of the language," said Mr. Lam. "So, too, many people would like to live here. And prices are going up because the population is going up."

American Dreams
Learning the Basics Of Restaurant English
In a cramped classroom two stories above East Broadway, aspiring waitresses learn survival English while waiting to find husbands. Steps away, in the public elementary school, Fujianese children learn about a world their parents have yet to discover.
These are Chinatown's newcomers, the building blocks of a community that will be based on families. They have turned the onetime bachelor haven on its ear, pressing it to look outside itself and, in small ways, forcing it to face its future.
"Everybody has a different American dream," said Keng Di Chen, curled into a child-size desk during a break in her class, Practical English for Chinese Restaurants. "Mine is to get a green card and then go to Oxford University."
No matter that Miss Chen, 24, had completed only the equivalent of junior high school back in her hometown, Chenle. After a few months in New York, she already looked every inch the confident American in jeans and pink T-shirt, red polish on her toenails and a defiant "whaddayalookinat?" tilt to her chin.
Miss Chen was unfazed when told that Oxford is in England. She just shrugged and went back to her textbook, sounding out useful on-the-job phrases like "smoking area," "Your food will be with you soon" and "It's nice to see you again."
"We have to work and we can't learn English fast enough for other jobs," she said through a translator.
The demographics of the Fujianese immigration are changing in syncopation with changes in the mechanics of the people-smuggling business.
Instead of using the treacherous holds of ships, smugglers now arrange passage over the Canadian and Mexican borders or provide plane tickets, false documents and instructions for bribing officials in Asian and European airports along the way. Fujianese families have decided that those routes expose women and children to fewer dangers.
The women come with the encouragement of their families, whose tradition demands that they marry young. And given that many villages in Fujian Province have exported most of their young men to the United States, the potential husbands are here.
"It's like a soap opera," said Steven Wong, a Fujianese Chinatown political leader. "We have females smuggled into this city with lots of hopes and dreams. Of course, the moment they step on the soil here they owe $40,000 to the smugglers. So they need somebody to lean on. They can easily fall in love."
The community has long been divided by generation, not only in the sense of chronological age but also in the immigrants' place along the smuggling chain.
After the Tiananmen Square massacre, for example, Chinese immigrants who were in the country as of Dec. 1, 1989, were granted legal status. Some others who entered illegally have been granted political asylum. But those who came in the early days paid about $18,000 to smugglers and hold a special place in the Fujianese immigrant hagiography as a "wan ba ge," or "$18,000 brother."
Some of the tens of thousands who came in the early 1990's eventually brought their wives, who then went to work to pay off their own debts. Now couples are bringing their children. But the youngsters and their parents are strangers.
Many of the children were left behind and lived almost all their lives away from their fathers. Some of the children were born here, making them citizens, but were sent back to China as infants to be raised by relatives.
"Parents feel guilty," said Sidney Sheng, a local youth counselor. "And if they don't have enough time for the kids and they see the kids don't listen, they are overwhelmed."
Or the parents find themselves preoccupied with work and debts.
"They often rely on the schools to socially, morally and academically educate the children," said Ann Hochman, the acting principal of Public School 2 on Henry Street in the heart of Fujianese Chinatown.
Young children are frequently cared for by siblings or other relatives. They often live in overcrowded apartments. The parents' peripatetic lives, searching out of state for the next good job or business opportunity, disrupt the children's schooling. Last year, 29 of the 153 Fujianese students at P.S. 2 were pulled out of class altogether because their parents had moved. 
"I know this is home base," said Ms. Hochman. "I'll hear people say they went down to Florida and the business didn't make it and they'll come back. Sometimes they take their children. Sometimes they leave them here.
"So we have some kids who are very emotionally vulnerable," she added. "They're young, and they need Mommy and Daddy."

Family Prospects
Starting a New Life In Rented Clothes
Her sparkling white stretch limousine waited outside, purring at the curb. Her new husband fidgeted with the red bow tie as a team of attendants buckled a red cummerbund around his waist. Her bridesmaids, sneakers peeking out under the hems of their nylon gowns, regarded her with open envy.
Jing Lin had reached the summit. Five years after leaving her hometown, Fuzhou, as a frightened 17-year-old, Ms. Lin was married. And not to just one among the multitudes of illegal Fujianese immigrant bachelors, but to a newly minted American citizen with prospects.
"In Fuzhou, not much gentlemen," said Ms. Lin in the hesitant English she learned during years of waiting tables in Hartford. "They all come to America. My Fujianese people all here. I got a lot of choice here. If I still in China, no." 
Here is the future of the Fujianese immigration, dressed up in a cloud of white sateen and sequins. Propelled by economic necessity or youthful enterprise, the Fujianese are starting families outside the nestlike comforts of the Fujianese enclave.
Chinatown's preoccupation now is weddings. Each week, 30 to 40 couples descend on the neighborhood from around the country for a day of hairstyling, makeup and picture-taking in settings like Central Park. East Broadway is lined with white limousines, as if an entire Hollywood studio of stars had descended on its dingy expanse of stores and offices. Basement florists fill up with roses and chrysanthemums for wedding dinners.
A small army of Fujianese part-time singers, comedians and magicians has emerged to entertain at receptions. There is a three-month wait to reserve a banquet hall.
Carol Law's wedding-planning shop on East Broadway, one of many, looks like backstage at a costume drama. Racks of white wedding dresses and a rainbow of gowns in chiffon, velvet and organza hang from the ceiling and crowd the main floor. Upstairs, a bevy of women wield cans of hair spray, mascara wands and powder puffs. Three Fujianese immigrant brides -- Ms. Lin and two waitresses from Florida and North Carolina -- sit frozen in place.
Just about everything they and their husbands will wear on their wedding day will be rented from Ms. Law, a Hong Kong-born businesswoman who anticipated the Fujianese wedding boom six years ago and opened a shop on East Broadway. She provides four changes of clothes for the women, including an American-style white gown and the tight-fitting mandarin-style "cheong sam" dresses in deep purples and red. Her photography studio offers fantasy backdrops for soft-focus wedding pictures to send home to China. 
Xi Leung -- "Call me Jay," he said jovially -- chose Ms. Law's $4,000 Fuzhou Special, which includes a tour in an Excalibur limousine, for his wedding to Ms. Lin. The couple especially loved posing against a studio backdrop that made it look as if they were standing on the deck of a luxury yacht. 
Mr. Leung emigrated from Fujian Province 10 years ago and now owns a takeout restaurant in Hartford. He met his bride on one of the rare occasions when he went out to eat. "I work seven days a week and don't really have time," Mr. Leung recalled. "But I went out to eat at a friend's restaurant and she was there, working as a waitress."
The wedding reception -- 10 tables, each with 10 friends, and heaps of soft-shell crab and shrimp -- had to be in Fujianese Chinatown. "It's a Chinese area," said Mr. Leung. "In Connecticut, you've got to do like the white people do."
After the wedding, the couple would leave Chinatown and return to a less protected life where their children, when they come, will have to be more nimble at assimilating.
Ms. Lin blushed under her makeup as she described her plans. "I maybe will have a baby," she said. "Maybe I will have babies."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrants from Fujian Province have created their own commercial and social enclave in Chinatown. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Bi He Liu travels to Manhattan to be among "mountains and seas of people."; East Broadway is the cultural and commercial center for Fujianese immigrants.; The Good-Good-Taste Chinese Kitchen, a Fujianese restaurant, stays open late.; The Singapore Employment Agency posts restaurant jobs from all over the United States. Jenny Wu and Heqing Liu, of Raleigh, N.C., in a restaurant on their wedding night.; Students at the Su Cheng English School often need the most basic language skills. (Photographs by TING-LI WANG/The New York Times)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TRENDS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); SMUGGLING (68%); FAMILY (67%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CHINESE-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (77%) SOUTH CHINA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FUJIAN, CHINA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SINGAPORE (77%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC); FUJIAN PROVINCE (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



564 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: What Do Poor Nations Need Most? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Bush Urges Shift to Direct Grants for Poor Nations" (front page, July 18): 
 The administration is right to seek better performance from international financial institutions, but the emphasis on productivity is wrongheaded. 
Most poor countries have heavy unemployment, not to mention underemployment. Neither grants at the level expected, nor productivity programs nor education will help the jobless. They need intensive help in the form of foreign exchange, in sufficient amounts for economic takeoff. 
One solution is to funnel existing amounts of foreign aid to those countries adopting the best policies, and then make sure they get enough for long enough. The international financial institutions are handicapped by the need to provide something for each of the poor countries. If, as the administration says, the cold war is over and with it the need for political payoffs to nearly everyone, we ought to be able to insist on a new kind of focus.

JOHN T. BENNETT
Alexandria, Va., July 18, 2001

The writer served as deputy director of the Agency for International Development in the Dominican Republic and Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BENNETT, JOHN T; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



565 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Apartment Developer With the Law in Its Toolbox

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
IF it were so inclined, AvalonBay Communities could quote a Yogi Berra bon mot as a mantra for its operations in Connecticut. "Deja vu all over again" would be appropriate for the regularity with which Fairfield County's wealthier towns have rejected AvalonBay's applications to build what have become signature luxury rental apartment complexes for more than a decade.
 Some towns have attempted condemnation of the land on which AvalonBay planned to build, stating a variety of municipal needs. But after 15 years of exponential growth nationwide, AvalonBay is the third largest real estate investment trust in the United States and the largest residential REIT in terms of capitalization, which totals $5.5 billion. Its pockets are deep enough to bear the legal costs of pursuing its goals, currently focused on litigation against Darien, Milford, Orange, Stratford and Wilton. 
 "We like to do business where business is tough," said Bryce Blair, president and chief executive of AvalonBay Communities at its headquarters in Alexandria, Va. "In the Northeast there are many constraints, physical as well as political: lack of land, sewers, roads and a strong bias against new development. It takes a lot of staying power and patience and financial strength to work through a 10-year approval process in a Darien or a New Canaan." 
In 1997, after five years of legal battling and condemnation proceedings, AvalonBay and New Canaan compromised on an alternate site, but construction, delayed by additional wrangling, did not begin until this year on 104 apartments, with 20 percent of the units offered at below-market rents under Connecticut's Affordable Housing Law. 
Now at peace with New Canaan, Samuel B. Fuller, executive vice president of AvalonBay Communities, calls it "a very well configured town, where denser housing is adjacent to shopping, services and the railroad station." He added: "Development spreads in concentric circles to larger acreages. That's why we like our Darien plan, across from the Noroton station."
Darien's Boards of Selectmen and Finance and its Representative Town Meeting voted this month to condemn and buy the 32-acre property on which AvalonBay obtained preliminary approval to build 189 apartments in 1998, including an affordable 25 percent. Darien now wants the property for recreational use and senior and day-care centers, and AvalonBay intends to challenge the decision in court. 
In the case against the town of Orange, the State Supreme Court upheld a lower court ruling earlier this month that the town had abused its powers of eminent domain when it condemned for an industrial park the property that AvalonBay had contracted for development two years ago. 
"Condemnation has become part of the approvals process," Mr. Fuller, the AvalonBay executive, said. "Connecticut is different from many other states and significantly more litigious. Having eliminated its county governments in the 50's, it is 169 towns with 169 plans of development and planning commissions and zoning boards, and 169 opinions about how land should be developed."
AvalonBay's strategy is to build in "high barrier to entry" towns -- well-off suburban communities that have the wherewithal and the municipal muscle to keep out unwanted development, in effect discouraging AvalonBay's less aggressive competition, but not AvalonBay. 
When AvalonBay appears on the scene, its critics believe, it threatens a deeply rooted sense of place that long ago established the character of many towns in the state and helped give New England the cachet it enjoys. The company's detractors say AvalonBay forces its projects into towns it could not otherwise penetrate by using the state's Affordable Housing Law. 
In the New Haven County town of Milford, where AvalonBay filed an appeal against the local inland wetland agency and sewer commission, the mayor, Frederick Lisman, expressed a common complaint. Speaking of the 1989 Affordable Housing Law, the fulcrum on which AvalonBay rests part of its legal strategy, Mayor Lisman said: "The biggest fallacy in the law is it negates local zoning. The town objects to reversing the roles of developer and municipality."
INTENDED to address a statewide gap in affordable housing, which last year showed a need for more than 68,000 units, the law allows developers to negotiate for units beyond zoning limits in return for setting aside a percentage at lower-than-market rates. If towns reject such proposals, they must demonstrate that their communities would be damaged in some substantial way. Formerly, it was the developer who had to prove his project's worth. Now, rejection gives the developer the right to sue the town, and the courts have generally favored developers.
Under pressure from constituents, legislators tightened the statute twice, favoring the towns, but some communities have accepted multifamily housing of any kind only in recent years, and for some residents the term "affordable" conjures up a nasty image of indolent, impoverished transients.
Despite the obstacles, the company has built or bought more 44,000 luxury apartments in 12 states. It is Connecticut's largest landlord with 3,283 apartments in 12 communities built, bought or under construction in Fairfield and New Haven Counties, plus one in Hartford containing 932 apartments.
"Avalon is structured more corporately than many housing developers," said Michael P. Meotti, president of the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, a nonprofit think tank in Hartford that provides information to the Legislature but takes no positions. "It has learned how to use legal and financial tools successfully. Housing needs have been met elsewhere by expanding the metropolitan zones. Washington, D.C., enlarged a very hot real estate market toward Dulles Airport and into Virginia. But the areas around New York have been built up for so long, there is not a lot of opportunity to push growth out.
"Connecticut is on a collision course," he said, "with long-term needs for keeping and attracting employers who generate growth and a strong economy at odds with advocates of keeping things the way they are. Growth industries focus on hiring relatively young talent with advanced degrees who are not looking for single-family homes in a suburban neighborhood."
Timothy S. Hollister of the Hartford law firm Shipman & Goodwin has handled AvalonBay's many lawsuits and watched changes in the law requiring the number of affordable units increase from 20 percent to 25 percent and, as of last year, to 30 percent of a project. The affordable status was raised from 30 to 40 years, after which the apartments are available for open-market rental, and income eligibility requirements dropped from 80 percent to 50 percent of the area or state median, whichever is lower. The state median is around $52,500 for a family of four.
"Towns where the new restrictions make sense economically are now diminished," said Mr. Hollister, because of the extraordinarily high land costs in high-barrier-to-entry towns. "The Avalons of the world have part of the answer to sprawl," he said, "because they are not building on two- and three-acre subdivisions of farmlands, but in urban fringe locations."
In 1999 the law was weakened by rulings of two Connecticut Superior Courts and the state's Supreme Court. The towns of Glastonbury, Newtown and Bridgewater were upheld against developers of homes and apartments with affordable components when the judges accepted the towns' claims that open space and recreational needs outweighed the need for housing. 
But a Supreme Court decision handed down two weeks ago in a Greenwich case relating to affordable housing for the elderly "restored the statute to its original strength," said Mr. Hollister, who represented the plaintiffs. Overturning a Superior Court ruling that favored Greenwich, the Supreme Court, he said, "clarified the role of Superior Court judges who review affordable housing cases." Judges must evaluate cases on the facts, independently of the opinions of local land use boards, he said. 
AvalonBay complexes are far from cheap, even those in the affordable category. Market-rate rents range from around $1,800 for studios to more than $3,200 for three-bedroom units. Increases of 5 to 15 percent are charged when leases are renewed, for at most 15 months. A pet owner must pay a $600 fee and then $50 a month. In larger complexes, tenants may be offered a range of amenities including heated swimming pools, fully equipped business and fitness centers, clubrooms for private parties, concierge services, indoor basketball and racquetball courts and parking, for a mandatory amenity fee of $600 per lease.
AvalonBay's newest project under construction is Avalon Harbor in Stamford, its first Connecticut waterfront venture. "It will be ready for occupancy in the first quarter of 2002, with a marina and no affordables," said Paxton Kinol, director of development for Connecticut.
While Avalon's California market has been impacted by what Mr. Blair calls "the tech wreck," he said, "we are still delivering strong results elsewhere. The Northeast is our strongest region now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel B. Fuller, left, and Paxton Kinol at Avalon Harbor in Stamford, a project on the waterfront. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (85%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); PROPERTY LAW (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPEALS (50%) HOUSING 

COMPANY: AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AVALON BAY COMMUNITIES 

TICKER: AVB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



566 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Temporary Work Is Sidestepping a Slowdown

BYLINE:  By AMY ZIPKIN 

 BODY:
THE law of gravity has worked on stocks, dot-coms and economic growth rates. But it is having a harder time pulling down the industry that supplies temporary employees to American businesses.
 In a surprise that reflects important shifts in the types of workers that make up the temporary labor force, temporary-help agencies have proved to be relatively insulated from the economic downturn so far. Many have expanded and diversified the categories of workers they offer -- moving beyond the stereotypical categories of day laborers, sales clerks and secretaries to include managers, accountants, consultants and lawyers. 
 Some temporary-help agencies have successfully exploited Internet technology to make themselves more efficient and less expensive. Some specialize in finding workers like nurses, scientists and chemical engineers, who are often in demand regardless of the broader economy's health. 
In fact, a climb in the number of jobless people is in some ways welcomed by the temporary-help industry, because it provides a larger pool of people to tap.
"There appears to be an increase in the number of people who are interested in flexible staffing," said Cinda A. Hallman, president and chief executive of Spherion, a temporary-help company based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
That does not mean, of course, that the industry has been immune to the economy's decline. The American Staffing Association, a trade group based in Washington, said the number of temporary workers employed on an average day fell 7.8 percent in the first three months of this year, compared with the period a year earlier, to 2.24 million. Revenue for the temporary-help industry, a barometer of demand, fell 5.7 percent, to $14.2 billion.
Indeed, some agencies that had too few applicants for many jobs last year are now confronting the opposite problem. Peter Yessne, publisher of Staffing Industry Report, a trade journal published by Staffing Industry Analysts, a Los Altos, Calif., research firm, said temporary-help companies are now having trouble placing people. Mr. Yessne said that even he had received calls from agencies "to see if I need temporary help."
Last Thursday, Manpower Inc., based in Milwaukee and one of the biggest companies in the industry, reported a 9 percent decline in its second-quarter earnings on a 3 percent decline in revenue, which Jeffrey A. Joerres, president and chief executive, attributed to weakness in the economy. Mr. Joerres said he did not foresee a comeback until next year. On the other hand, he said, Manpower's marketing staff "now has time to make some sales calls."
Over all, industry revenue is expected to grow 3.7 percent this year, to $87.9 billion, Staffing Industry Analysts has projected. While that is a substantially slower pace than the 10.4 percent growth recorded last year, it is still far higher than the 1.2 percent annualized growth expected for the broader economy.
PART of the industry's resilience can be attributed to the growth in demand for highly skilled professionals, who once were not part of the temporary-labor pool. 
Data from Staffing Industry Analysts shows that temporary medical, legal and accounting workers are among the fastest-growing categories this year, based on revenue, while a decline was registered for industrial workers. The Labor Department reported in May that executives and managers accounted for 9.1 percent of all temporary workers this year, compared with 7.6 percent in 1995, while low-skilled laborers fell to 13 percent from 15.8 percent.
Some temporary-help companies have sought to turn the economy's softness to their advantage, not only by using it as an opportunity to cultivate more business but also by promoting their ability to lower clients' employment costs.
Spherion, for example, says it saves money for corporate clients through a computerized screening system that quickly matches applicants to jobs. The company now needs 7 to 8 minutes to screen an applicant, down from 14 minutes seven years ago, said A. Kenneth Kunda, managing director of Spherion's assessment division.
Ms. Hallman, Spherion's chief executive, said the company viewed recent layoffs as a new source of supply, particularly among baby boomers who are nearing retirement age but want to keep working. 
Accountants, in particular, are in short supply because of new higher standards to pass licensing exams. In fact, some accountants are now among the most enthusiastic temporary workers.
"The work is ever changing so you don't get stuck in a rut and are always learning something new," said Sherryl White, 44, who lives in Bel Air, Md., north of Baltimore. Ms. White, a Spherion accounting temp who has been helping a large gas-and-electric utility prepare tax returns, said she now made more money working 30 hours a week than she did as a full-time permanent employee (but without the benefits). She also has the flexibility to accompany her 17-year-old daughter to cheerleading competitions.
Kelly Services, based in Troy, Mich., has greatly expanded in the legal-services area, capitalizing on a push by corporations to lower their legal costs. The Kelly Law Registry, a subsidiary, supplies paralegals instead of lawyers for case preparation, court pleadings and other basic tasks.
A number of big companies, like DuPont, are augmenting in-house legal staffs by using companies like Kelly.
The future of the temporary-help industry may also lie in areas like consulting and auditing. Manpower, for example, completed a deal this month to acquire Jefferson Wells International, a Milwaukee consulting firm specializing in internal auditing. 
SOME labor economists say the efforts of temporary-help companies to expand their services could backfire on the temporary workers themselves. For many of these workers, temporary assignments can lead to permanent employment when the economy strengthens. But that may not happen this time.
"There's a kind of 'gotcha' mentality in terms of the way the business community is looking at this, the downsizing of tech firms in particular," said Peter Cappelli, director of the Center for Human Resources at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "They may say: 'The layoffs are painful, let's not go through that again. We'll just contract it out.' "
The temporary-help industry, of course, disagrees. Sensitive to criticism that temporary workers have devalued the importance of job security, workplace camaraderie and corporate loyalty, the industry says many of its workers find permanent work.
Accounting Principals Inc., a subsidiary of Modis Professional Services, a temporary-help company in Jacksonville, Fla., said a recent survey showed that 83 percent of companies who hired temporary professional employees intended to hire them permanently if they performed well. The Labor Department has said that the practice of auditioning permanent job candidates as temporaries accounts for one of the fastest-growing areas in temporary recruiting.
But as the overall work force changes, what will the temporary-employment industry look like in 15 or 20 years? Mark Marcon, a securities analyst who follows the industry for the First Union Securities in Richmond, Va., said the increasing number of retiring baby boomers would ultimately lead to a sharp decrease in unemployment. The demand for all professional workers will be so severe, he predicted, that the unemployment rate will fall below the 30-year low of 3.9 percent reached last year.
"When that occurs, employees will be more liberated than ever to pick and choose the jobs they really desire," he said, "and employers will be forced to cater to employees."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Manpower computer class in Gurnee, Ill. Temporary-help agencies have been relatively insulated from the economic downturn; many have expanded and diversified. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) Chart: "The number of temporary workers is off slightly. . ." Graph shows the average daily employment of temporary workers, quarterly from 1997-present. Chart: ". . . but the highly skilled are still in great demand."Projected change in revenue for temporary agencies this year, by profession Accounting: +19.8%Professional/Specialty: +19.3Legal: +12.5Medical: +20.8Industrial: -11.8 (Sources: American Staffing Association; Staffing Industry Analysts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (62%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (55%) LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES 

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STAFFING ASSOCIATION (82%) MANPOWER INC; KELLY SERVICES INC 

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: JEFFREY A JOERRES (50%) ZIPKIN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



567 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3284 words

HEADLINE: The Making (Or Possible Breaking) Of a Megabrand 

BYLINE:  By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
IN May, a new advertisement began appearing on billboards and aboard subways and buses in New York, Chicago and Philadelphia. In it, black-and-white pictures show a young woman, with dark flowing hair and upraised arms. Beside the picture, a slogan for a deodorant blares: "Next stop, armpit heaven."
 The brand? Dove. 
 For 40 years, Dove, with one exception, meant a bar of soap. A pretty, soft, oval-shaped bar, but just soap, nonetheless. Yet in the last few years, Unilever, the British-Dutch conglomerate that makes Dove, has been pushing hard to transform the name into a megabrand. The Dove name now adorns facial wipes, body washes, anti-aging cleansers, "skin nourishing" treatments and the underarm deodorant -- plus, of course, several varieties of bar soap, including a brand-new striped version laced with vitamin E and called Nutrium.
Dove is a prime example of several trends sweeping the consumer products industries. In recent years, prompted by a quest for more efficient marketing and greater returns on investment, many companies have been culling their hundreds of brands, dumping small or slow-growing lines and focusing on building up the biggest names. Megabrands, also known as power brands, are the mantra for corporate executives seeking faster growth and bigger profits. 
For Unilever and Procter & Gamble, two of the world's biggest makers of personal-care goods, these trends have put two originally very different products, Dove and Olay, into direct competition. 
Thanks to Dove, Unilever overtook Procter & Gamble as America's leading soap maker in 1991. Today, Unilever sells $331 million worth of Dove bar soap a year, more than 24 percent of that market (measured by revenue) and far ahead of the nearest competitor. But since 1999, amid Procter & Gamble's relentless campaign of brand extension, sales of all Olay products in the United States have surpassed those for the Dove line. Still, Dove's worldwide sales exceed $1 billion, giving it the lead over Olay globally and making it the third-biggest brand for Unilever, whose sales reached $46.7 billion last year.
And Unilever has even greater ambitions for Dove. "The aim is to be the biggest," said May Shana'a, a director of development at Unilever. "We want to be on the top of the mind, like Coke. We are close. Globally, Dove is moving there."
Dove made its debut in 1955 as a synthetic soap bar that moisturized, and it quickly became a household name -- remember its "one-quarter cleansing cream" slogan? Oil of Olay began in 1946 as a facial moisturizer that was supposed to reduce wrinkles. 
But since 1990, when Unilever's patent expired on the primary synthetic cleanser in Dove -- and as Procter & Gamble began to create new versions of Olay -- the two brands have been fighting for the same customers, introducing similar extensions and jockeying for first place in the market for premium cleansers.
Yet both also face a crucial challenge. Any company can put an established brand name on any product, but if the extension does not fit with a shopper's image of the original, the move can do more than fail. 
"How far can you stretch a brand before you start damaging it?" said Allen Adamson, the managing director at Landor Associates, a corporate branding firm. "The tendency is to stretch as far as we can. But if we stretch too far, people don't know what the core promise is anymore."
IN fact, Unilever got a late start in extending Dove, in part because an early experiment left it gun-shy. In 1965, Unilever introduced Dove dishwashing liquid to compete with Palmolive, which was winning customers with its promise that it "softens hands while you do dishes." But too few consumers followed Dove's move to the kitchen: the dishwashing liquid did not sell well, so Unilever cut its price.
Soon, the Dove image was muddied, associated with an inexpensive as well as a premium product, and with a harsh as well as a gentle soap, said Mr. Adamson, who worked for Unilever in the early 1980's as a brand manager for Dove dishwashing liquid and other products.
Olay, too, has had its missteps. In 1999, Procter & Gamble gave the Olay name to a line of cosmetics. But consumers identified the brand only with moisturizers, not with mascara, eye shadow, facial makeup, lipstick and nail polish. Early this year, the cosmetics line claimed less than 3 percent of the $3.3 billion cosmetics mass market -- a market that demands advertising in order to compete. Last month, A. G. Lafley, the chief executive of Procter & Gamble, said he would shut down the Olay cosmetics business.
Those were hardly the first, or last, times that marketers got brand extension wrong, making less with more, rather than the other way around. In 1981, two marketing experts, Al Ries and Jack Trout, published a broadside against brand extensions, "Positioning: The Battle For Your Mind," which argued that every extension could subtly change what a brand stood for. In the long run, if "you change what consumers think of your core brand, in time the line extension will cost you money," said Mr. Ries, who published a new edition of "Positioning" this year.
These days, perhaps Unilever's riskiest step is Dove antiperspirant. If consumers can imagine the qualities of Dove soap in an underarm deodorant, the extension may succeed. But if a Dove that stops perspiration as well as moisturizes is confusing to consumers, or if the advertisements are jarring, not soothing, then the deodorant may fail and consumers' perception of the overall brand may change for the worse.
But what Unilever, P.& G. and other companies trying to create megabrands need to know is essentially unknowable. They have to guess how different they can make a product and still have it convey the same image. Can a deodorant or facial wipe contain the qualities that a consumer associates with a bar of soap? More fundamentally, how strong is brand loyalty today? How far can companies push it?
The answers depend on how much trust shoppers have, not only in an individual product, but also in the brand name that sells it.
Dove, which Unilever developed in its American laboratories and first sold in 1955, always showed promise. In the 1960's, commercials for Dove soap became a staple of daytime television. "Dove creams your skin while you wash," the iconic ads promised, helping to establish its place as a premium product that offered something different. Dove's sales grew steadily in the 1960's, but its market share began to decline in the 1970's as brands like Dial and Tone, as well as Unilever's own Caress, grew stronger.
Then, in 1979, Albert M. Kligman, a dermatologist at the University of Pennsylvania, conducted an independent study showing that Dove dried and irritated skin significantly less than other soaps. Based on that study, Unilever began an extensive marketing program with doctors. Dermatologists and pediatricians began recommending Dove for their patients. To this day, Unilever spends $8 million to $10 million a year promoting the soap with physicians, and about 25 percent of Dove users say they buy the soap because a doctor recommended it, said Peter Waxman, the brand manager for Dove in the United States.
That medical marketing program drove Dove's growth in the 1980's. In 1986, Dove became the best-selling soap brand, in dollar sales. And in 1991, Unilever, whose soap brands also include Lever 2000, surpassed Procter & Gamble as America's largest soap maker. (Then, P.& G.'s biggest soap was Ivory, though now it is Zest.)
But even as Dove took the lead, the competitive landscape was shifting. Unilever's original patents on Dove had expired, and by 1991, Procter & Gamble was testing an Oil of Olay beauty bar with moisturizing properties similar to Dove's. The new Olay bar was rolled out nationally in 1993; Olay body wash arrived the next year. In 1995, sales of the body wash totaled $80 million, or about 27 percent of that market, which has one of the highest margins in soaps.
"We really knew from our consumer research what people wanted," said Virginia Coleman Drosos, the global Olay general manager. "We knew we could provide that product." 
Today, Unilever scientists and marketers acknowledge that they were chagrined. A body wash was a much more natural fit for Dove than it was for Olay, they thought. But Procter & Gamble got to the national market nearly a year ahead of Unilever.
In Unilever's low-slung, drab brick research labs in Trumbull, Conn., scientists rushed to catch up, quickly developing a body wash modeled on the style favored in Europe, where body washes began. In 1995, Dove body wash was in stores. But going head-to-head with Procter & Gamble, Unilever stumbled. 
DR. SHANA'A, the research director, said the company had failed to capture the essence of Dove. Olay's body wash cleaned better, moisturized more effectively and felt more pleasant on the skin than Dove's version. Procter & Gamble had realized that Americans wanted something lighter and more moisturizing than the liquids popular in Europe; Unilever did not.
"They broke my heart," Dr. Shana'a said. "They had a superior product. They beat us clinically. Dove body wash missed because it was not like the bar; we launched something closer to shampoo."
Olay was on a roll. It quickly introduced new improvements to its facial moisturizers, winning the largest share of the body-wash market, and developing a beauty bar that competed directly with Dove.
In 1996, Unilever scientists worked on altering their body-wash formula. First, they made the liquid thicker and the lather creamier, making the Dove body wash feel as good as Olay. Two years later they added sunflower oil, whose triglycerides moisturized as well as Olay. The next reformulation, in 1999, changed the ratio of cleansers, added better moisturizers and, in the opinion of Dr. Shana'a, made the product better than Olay.
At the same time, she and her colleagues started work in earnest on a counterpunch -- a new version of Dove. Many consumers, especially aging baby boomers, were demanding personal-care products that improved their skin. The Olay brand had such a reputation, and Unilever wanted one for Dove.
Unilever scientists began working on a technology that would deposit lipids, cholesterol and more tryglercides on skin. This would allow them to claim "skin nourishing" properties. Mr. Waxman, the Dove brand manager, said extensions must reinforce Dove's central image as a feminine product that gently moisturizes the skin, even as they add new attributes. And a successful new product, he added, must help drive sales of the original line of soap. 
"They must build as well as borrow," he said.
In 1999, the year Procter & Gamble dumped the "Oil" from Olay's name, the brand's American sales reached $462 million, overtaking Dove, which had $392 million. Unilever's response was to start its Dove Nutrium line. Nutrium body wash, containing vitamin E, sells at a 50 percent premium to regular Dove body wash and comes with a dual-chambered bottle and a promise of skin nourishment. Later that year, Unilever introduced an "age defying" version of Nutrium body wash with anti-oxidants, chemicals that are supposed to reduce signs of aging.
With its new formulation of regular Dove body wash and the new Nutrium products, Dove began to pull close to Olay in the category. Last year, Olay body wash had a 12.4 percent share and $78.1 million in sales, down from $80.2 million and 26.7 percent in 1995. Dove body wash, meanwhile, had a 12.0 percent share and $76.1 million in sales, compared with a 13 percent share and $45.9 million in sales in 1995, according to Unilever. In other words, as others entered the market, Dove had increased sales and lost little share, a far better record than Olay's.
BUT Unilever was not finished. In 1999, its scientists began developing a pink-and-white striped bar that contained a similar collection of moisturizers, triglycerides, lipids and cholesterol.
Early this year, that product, the Dove Nutrium soap, hit store shelves, priced about 30 percent more than a bar of regular Dove. On the box, Unilever put the slogan: "Skin nourishing with vitamin E." In advertisements, Unilever said the white stripe "cleans and softens" while the pink stripe "replenishes the skin's nutrients." In a footnote, however, Unilever clarified: "Deposits nutrients naturally found in skin."
The development of Nutrium tied the Dove brand to another trend: the addition of natural herbs, vitamins and minerals to consumer products.
But the dermatologist who helped Dove's sales catapult in the 1980's says he thinks the latest trend has a lot more to do with marketing than science. Dr. Kligman, whose lab currently receives $50,000 a year from Unilever, said there was little scientific evidence that any of the additives improve the health of skin, although they may well help soap sales.
"What I am against is the free-for-all addition of taking anything you can think of and dumping it in there," he said. "That has become ludicrous. The marketplace is way ahead of science."
Although many people believe in rubbing vitamin E on scars, Dr. David J. Leffell, a Yale dermatologist, argues in his book "Total Skin" (Hyperion) that studies have shown no benefit to applying vitamin E topically. Curiously, Unilever officials hired Dr. Leffell to give a talk to magazine writers and editors when they unveiled Nutrium body wash. 
In an interview, Dr. Leffell said he uses Nutrium himself, though not because he thinks his skin needs, or because the soap offers, extra nourishment beyond what the body provides. "Saying a product has vitamin E is no different than changing the style or shape of the package," he said. "It's a marketing ploy. These ingredients have come to be understood rightly or wrongly as having some effect on the skin."
But Unilever scientists say a little marketing savvy is needed to sell the science in Nutrium. Dr. Shana'a says that while the cholesterol, lipids and fatty acids do help the skin, many consumers do not understand those nutrients. They do, however, associate vitamin E with healthy skin. "Its important to give consumers something they can relate to," Dr. Shana'a said. "We know that vitamin E is deposited by Nutrium on the skin. But we don't rely on that; we rely on the lipids and fatty acids. That is solid science."
Unilever does not yet have long-term scientific studies showing that Nutrium improves the health of the skin, but they hope to. In the basement of a strip mall in Trumbull, not far from the research center, lies a warren of rooms where scientists and technicians test new Dove prototypes. A row of foot showers line one room. In another, technicians administer washing tests with soaps, then measure the moisture on volunteers' skin. In another area, technicians take a series of photographs to record the effect of various soaps on skin over time.
Unilever is now spending $50 million annually on developing new products and $100 million on marketing the Dove brand in the United States. But Mr. Adamson, the branding expert, said Unilever waited too long to develop new extensions.
"A lot of Dove stuff they should have done faster," he said. "It was a power brand that they had a lot wrapped into."
Mr. Waxman, the brand manager, disagreed. In the early 90's, Unilever tested several potential Dove extensions, including facial cleansers, moisturizers and baby soap, but did not bring them to market nationally. Mr. Waxman said waiting was the right strategy. "A cardinal mistake you can make is that things are going well and you jump into a new category when you haven't given a brand a strong enough base," he said.
So far, Unilever's new extensions seemed to have helped Dove. In the early 90's, the market share of Dove soap was flat and sales actually declined from 1995 to 1996. But as Unilever has pushed forward with its extensions, sales of Dove soap have begun to grow. Last year, Unilever had 23.4 percent of the soap market by revenue, selling $318 million worth of Dove, a 30 percent increase from 1996, according to Information Resources, which tracks consumer product sales. 
During the last 12 months, as Unilever has introduced Nutrium, its share has grown to 24.4 percent, with sales of $331 million. Dove now sells 53 percent more bars of soap than Dial, the second-ranking brand. And, per ounce, Dove sells at a 75 percent premium over Dial.
More recently, though, Procter & Gamble has started reformulating Olay body wash. And in June 2000, it opened a new front, and a new market -- disposable face cloths infused with moisturizers. In their first 12 months, $71 million of Olay Daily Facials were sold nationwide.
Dove's facial wipes did not make their debut until February, and through last month Unilever had sold just $6.7 million of them, according to Information Resources. 
At a meeting of analysts last month, officials of Procter & Gamble trumpeted the success of its daily facials. Olay sales over all, according to Information Resources, have grown 17.6 percent over the last 12 months. By focusing on extensions that improve the skin, managers at Olay hope to continue that growth. This time, it plans to avoid the stumble it made in cosmetics, sticking to products like the Total Effects anti-aging cleansers, which have been selling well. 
"Our new products are a sign of growth," Ms. Drosos said.
Today, Olay and Dove are nearly equal in overall sales. During the last 12 months, $516 million in Dove products were sold in the United States, compared with $467 million for Olay, excluding the $88 million from its defunct cosmetics business, according to Information Resources. 
Brand extensions are likely to become more common in coming months. Certainly, Unilever officials are contemplating taking on Procter & Gamble in other areas. In Taiwan, for example, the company is testing Dove shampoo, and Unilever scientists in the United States are developing anti-aging moisturizers that might be sold under the Dove name.
DURING economic slowdowns, companies are more likely to introduce extensions than new brands, Mr. Adamson said. When a company is trying to cut expenses, the price of starting a new brand with new advertising can look prohibitively expensive. During the recession in the early 90's, many brands were pulled beyond their limits, Mr. Adamson said. Dove deodorant, he worried, could be such a step. 
But Mr. Waxman said the deodorant would succeed because it borrows the moisturizing message of Dove and then brings it to a new area, underarms, and a new audience, women younger than the average current user of Dove soap. That new demographic group required a different advertising message, said Bob Hay, the executive group director for Dove at Oglivy & Mather, its advertising agency.
"With a younger target, I think the advertising needs to venture out from the softer, more conservative style," Mr. Hay said. "If advertising deodorant doesn't make us squirm then we aren't doing our job."
During its first year on the market, Dove deodorant had $75 million in sales, gaining a market share of 4.5 percent. That drove up Unilever's overall share of the deodorant market to 18.5 percent from 15.6 percent. 
What happens next is anyone's guess. Mr. Trout said such short-term sales figures could blind brand managers, and wondered how long consumers who were trying Dove deodorant would stick with it. But Donna Barson, another branding and marketing consultant, disagreed. "If you have a good name," Ms. Barson said, "there is no reason not to extend your brand." She herself has become an avid user of Dove deodorant, saying it irritated her skin less than competing brands. What made her try the product? The name, of course.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the Unilever team that developed the new Dove Nutrium bar soap are, clockwise from left, Syed Abbas and Albert Post, senior product scientists, and Laurie Coyle, technology team manager.; Dove Nutrium soap on the production line. The Nutrium products have helped Dove close the gap with its rival, Olay, in the United States. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson for The New York Times)(pg. 7); Unilever is pushing hard to extend its popular Dove brand beyond soap. In Trumbull, Conn., Virgilio Villa, below, works on a cleanser formula, while employees demonstrate how products are tested, above and bottom left, and evaluated by focus groups, right. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Drawing (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "How Doves Have Multiplied"Dove, first introduced almost 50 years ago, has grown steadily in permutations and in market share. (Time scale changes in 1990.) 1955 -- Dove soap makes its debut. 1964 -- Pink Dove is introduced. 1965 -- Dove dishwashing liquid is introduced. 1973 -- Introduction of Tone and Caress soaps hurts Dove. 1979 -- Dr. Albert M. Kligman, a dermatologist, finds Dove soap to be best for skin. 1982 -- Dove begins marketing to doctors. 1990 -- Unscented Dove is introduced; Dove's last original patent expires. 1993 -- Olay bar sales begin. 1994 -- Olay body wash goes on sale. 1995 -- Dove for sensitive skin and Dove body wash make their debuts. 1998 -- Dove reformulates its body wash; Olay's Daily Renewal body wash is introduced. 1999 -- Dove Nutrium and Nutrium Age-Defying Body Wash go on sale. 2000 -- Dove deodorant goes on sale; Olay starts selling Daily Facials. 2001 -- Dove's Nutrium bar and cleansing cloths are introduced; Olay expands its Total Effects line and reformulates its body wash. Graph shows market share (by volume, for dove bar soaps and body washes) from 1955-2001. *Through April 14(Sources: Information Resources Inc; ACNielsen; Unilever)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (91%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); TOILET SOAPS (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (89%); BRAND EQUITY (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BRANDING (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); TRADEMARK LAW (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RETAIL SALES (67%); PATENTS (50%) COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES 

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (92%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNILEVER; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO 

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (92%); UNA (BIT) (92%); UNA (AMS) (92%); UN (NYSE) (92%); ULVR (LSE) (92%); UL (NYSE) (92%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (92%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%) SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: BARNES, JULIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



568 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
Defaults Rise for Junk Bonds

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
Moody's Investors Service said last week that 136 issuers worldwide defaulted on a record $54.1 billion of junk bonds in the first half of the year, but it forecast an end to the steep increase by early 2002. 
 A slowing global economy has reduced corporate profits, lowering credit ratings and raising borrowing costs despite cuts in short-term interest rates. 
Many companies have missed interest payments or sought bankruptcy protection. 
 In 2000, a total of 167 issuers defaulted on $49.1 billion of debt, Moody's said.
The 12-month default rate for junk bonds worldwide rose to 7.74 percent in June from 7.5 percent in May and 6.2 percent in January. The United States default rate rose to 8.2 percent in June from 7 percent at the beginning of the year.
The global default rate will likely rise to 9.5 percent by year-end, assuming an average of 14 defaults a month, the agency said, and to 10.1 percent next February or March before falling to 9.4 percent by June. The rate peaked at 13.1 percent in July 1991.
The United States default rate, meanwhile, will top out at 10 to 11 percent during the winter, Moody's predicted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DEFAULTING; BANKRUPTCIES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



569 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Finding Some Way To Disperse The Fog

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE economy, if you'll pardon the metaphor, is like a ship inching its way through a thick fog. Until it lifts, the crew cannot increase speed. But there is not enough wind to blow the fog away, or sun to burn it off. So the fog stays and the ship proceeds slowly -- and this is a long-lasting fog.
 The economy, in other words, is caught in a prolonged period of slow growth, the sort of subpar growth that keeps layoffs in the news and unemployment rising. The sluggishness has already lasted a year, and the fog should have lifted by now, blown away by rising activity somewhere in the economy. We wait for a jolt from business investment or consumer spending or military spending or something. Nothing happens. 
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, acknowledged as much last week in Congressional testimony. "We are not free of the risk that economic weakness will be greater than currently anticipated," he said. Putting a brave face on the situation, Mr. Greenspan expressed the hope that economic activity would soon respond to the Fed's half-dozen rate cuts so far this year and the soon-to-be-mailed tax rebates. 
The response to the rate cuts was supposed to be visible in the third quarter. But as the summer wears on, the economic indicators grow weaker, not stronger. And even the optimists doubt that the improvement will come this year. To return to the metaphor, we are in for a foggy Christmas. 
That is always a risky statement to make. The American economy is famous for twists and turns unforeseen a month or two before they happen. To everyone's surprise, stock prices could surge, encouraging people to spend more. Government could take the lead, spending much more on defense and education than is now in the budget. Or business investment could revive miraculously, despite shrinking profits. Breaking with standard practice, companies could decide that they must have some new technology -- faster computers, for example -- although the increased investment might shrink profits, not add to them.
"The rapid pace of innovation creates tremendous incentives to invest in technology," said James Glassman, senior domestic economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. Few forecasters are more optimistic than Mr. Glassman, but even he is reconciled to subpar growth for the rest of this year. Not recession, but weak growth. The mathematics suggest no other outcome -- for this year and perhaps well into next year.
The economy generates $10 trillion a year in new goods and services. That is huge output. But the treadmill does not stop. To keep the labor force employed and to make full use of the nation's growing productive capacity, that $10 trillion has to grow by at least $325 billion this year. The economy turns sluggish at less than $300 billion.
So far this year, the growth rate is only about $115 billion. The Commerce Department will update that number on Friday, when it publishes second-quarter figures. But one thing is clear. The consumer has generated nearly all the growth, a task once shared with business. Until the slowdown started last summer, business investment had grown by well over $100 billion a year. Now that rapid rise has all but stopped. With profits shrinking, the incentive is missing, and it is sorely missed. 
"The key to a revival of the economy is capital spending," said Robert Hall, a Stanford University economist. "Generally speaking, you are more likely to see an upward movement in something that is below normal, like investment, than in something that is normal, like consumption."
STILL, public policy aims mainly at persuading the consumer to spend more, in the absence of a better alternative. Exports are constrained by the strong dollar. Government spending on education, infrastructure or the military, is constrained by the emphasis on preserving the budget surplus. Consumers, by default, are the great hope. If only they would spend $100 billion or $150 billion more, the economy's growth rate would double, to 2 or 2.5 percent. That is still short of the 3.5 percent needed to keep the economy humming, but layoffs and job cuts would be less of a problem.
The Fed's interest rate cuts are intended to encourage this borrowing and spending. The tax rebates and tax cuts, totaling $81 billion over the next 12 months, will also give consumption a lift -- if the money is spent, not used to pay down debt. The latter is a distinct possibility. Household debt, including mortgages, has risen to a record level in relation to the income available to pay it down. Not since World War II, in fact, have Americans been so deeply in debt.
Lifting the economy by encouraging people to borrow more, or postpone repayment, is sad economics -- the wrong kind of thing to hope for or to encourage. There must be a better way to lift the fog.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the change in gross domestic product, at an annual rate, from the 1st quarter of 2000-2nd quarter of 2001. (Source: Blue Chip Economic Indicators) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TESTIMONY (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



570 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
As Labor Lost Ideology, U.S. Parties Found It

BYLINE:  By ADRIAN WOOLDRIDGE; Adrian Wooldridge is Washington correspondent for The Economist. He is co-author of "A Future Perfect: The Challenge and Hidden Promise of Globalization."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NOBODY can accuse George W. Bush and Tony Blair of neglecting the trans-Atlantic relationship. Mr. Blair was the first European leader to make an official visit to the newly elected Republican. Mr. Bush returned the compliment last week, dropping in on Mr. Blair's country residence. The two have discovered they have so many things in common they even use the same brand of toothpaste. 
 Yet the two leaders seem to be trying too hard to erase doubts about their relationship. The obvious reason for such doubts is that they come from opposite sides of the political spectrum. Mr. Blair and Bill Clinton belonged to a series of trans-Atlantic fellow travelers that included Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan, Harold Wilson and John F. Kennedy, and Harold Macmillan and Dwight D. Eisenhower. But Mr. Bush is no more inclined to chat about the "third way" than Mr. Blair is to wander around Texas in cowboy boots. 
 There is another explanation for the difference -- one that touches not just on policy but on their whole approach to politics. The two men are both products of political revolutions that have transformed their respective parties in opposite directions. The Republican Party has become more ideological while Labor has ditched ideology for a bland but effective pragmatism. 
This represents an extraordinary turnaround. The Labor Party was forged in the fires of ideology. The party's constitution of 1918 promised to nationalize the "means of production, distribution and exchange." The party took advantage of its sweeping victory in 1945 to seize control of the commanding heights of the economy and establish a nationalized health service.
The party clung to its founding ideology even when it spelled electoral disaster. Labor's interminable 1983 election manifesto was famously described at the time as "the longest suicide note in history." But when the electoral catastrophe came, many argued, in the immortal words of the Labor activist "Red Ted" Knight, "there can be no compromise with the electorate."
For much of their existence American's political parties were all about "compromise with the electorate." They were formed not by ideology but by the geographical divisions of the Civil War. The Republican Party included Wall Street bankers, Main Street shopkeepers, Farm Belt isolationists, Northeast liberals and Sun Belt conservatives, while the Democratic Party embraced Southern conservatives, urban political machines, liberal do-gooders and even a few socialists. 
This meant the parties needed to put more emphasis on brokering deals than preserving ideological purity. It also meant, when it came to running the country, they turned to Washington's permanent establishment. 
Eisenhower saw himself as a problem-solver rather than a party tribune; he even considered dropping his Republican label in 1956 and running for re-election just as himself. He padded the federal bureaucracy with the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, installed Earl Warren on the Supreme Court and invited Nikita S. Khrushchev to the United States. 
Richard M. Nixon, for all his weakness for right-wing speechifying, followed in Eisenhower's footsteps. He shamelessly stole Democratic policies on everything from Keynsian management to affirmative action. In 1970, he considered changing the name of the Republican Party to the Conservative Party for the pragmatic reason that polls showed half the voters identified themselves as conservatives, while only a third identified themselves as Republicans.
The Labor Party's ideologues held out against this sort of thinking for as long as they could. But the party's third defeat in a row, in 1987, allowed Mr. Blair and his fellow modernizers to seize control. They immediately set about rechristening it New Labor and implementing their philosophy that "what matters is what works."
New Labor cleverly stole Mrs. Thatcher's best ideas about deregulation and privatization. It displayed its pragmatism by going even further. Almost its first act after winning power in 1997 was to give the Bank of England its independence. It is now drawing up plans for private companies to run bits of the welfare state. 
New Labor is now thoroughly technocratic. Mr. Blair is turning the cabinet and prime minister's offices into "centers of delivery," with performance targets. His minions talk about "re-engineering the welfare state." Members of his foreign office team call themselves "practical Europeans" to defuse Britain's most combustible issue, abandoning the pound for the euro. Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, boasts about his love affair with a woman called Prudence. 
But just as the Labor Party was becoming more pragmatic, the Republican and Democratic Parties grew more ideological. The civil rights movement helped detach Southern whites from the Democrats and also loosened the bonds between Northerners and the Republicans. The likes of Barry M. Goldwater and William F. Buckley Jr. fashioned a conservative intellectual movement. Rockefeller Republicans left their ancestral party. As Marshall Wittmann of the Heritage Foundation points out, Mr. Bush has no choice but to "pay homage to the ideological right of the party." 
THE contrast between America and Britain is growing. American politics is now split down the middle on values. "The single greatest divide in American politics is that the Bush coalition consists of people who are religious and respect traditional morality while the Gore coalition consists of people who are not traditionally religious and favor a more relativistic morality," said Michael Barone, co-author of "The Almanac of American Politics." Republicans no longer have to abandon their ideology in Washington. They can rely on a counterestablishment of conservative organizations like the American Enterprise Institute and networks like the Federalist Society. 
This sort of cultural politics is as dead as the dodo in Britain. Simon Green, a sociologist of religion at All Souls College, Oxford, argues, "There is no religious divide in Great Britain because there is no religious constituency: fewer than 5 percent of the population regularly attend church." The debates about abortion, guns and drugs that fuel America's culture wars are all but absent in Britain. A few weeks ago a former deputy head of the Conservative Party suggested marijuana should be legalized. The result was not cries of outrage from the Tory heartland but murmurs of agreement. 
It is true that Tory voters were willing to embrace a more ideological stance when fighting trade unions in the 1980's. But since then ideological posturing has proved to be ruinous. John Major's Republican-inspired "back to basics" movement ended in embarrassment. William Hague's attempt to turn the recent election into a crusade against forces (like the euro and asylum seekers) that threaten to turn Britain into a foreign nation led to catastrophe. Ann Widdecombe, the closest thing Britain has to an American-style religious conservative, had to withdraw from the current Conservative leadership contest because she failed to find one supporter among parliamentary Conservatives. The party now has a chance of electing an old-fashioned pragmatist, in the bear-bellied person of Kenneth Clarke, as its leader. The choice, in truth, is between him and disaster. 
The fine talk about the trans-Atlantic relationship was flowing freely last week. But it is hard to find the magic that touched the relationship between British and American politicians in the past. Mr. Bush and Mr. Blair don't just have different political views. They speak a different political language. The special relationship will now have to stand or fall on its own merits.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President George Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair at a joint press conference earlier this year. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SUICIDE (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) WOOLDRIDGE, ADRIAN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



571 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Reasonable Economic Targets 

 BODY:
Disappointing earnings reports continued to stream in from some of America's biggest corporations last week. There is no doubt that the economy is in a slump now, and the beginning of its revival may still be months away. But comfort may be drawn from the fact that despite its current weakness, the economy could recapture a historically normal rate of growth as early as next year. 
 In his latest assessment, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said he expects economic growth to reach an annual rate of at most 2 percent by the end of this year -- short of the Fed's earlier prediction of 2.5 percent. Businesses, meanwhile, are preparing for continued low earnings by laying off workers, offering early retirement to older workers and delaying start dates for new hires. 
 For next year, by which time the business inventories that have been worrying Mr. Greenspan will have declined to more reasonable levels, the Fed now forecasts an expansion of between 3 and 3.25 percent. The unemployment rate, however, may edge up to 5 or 5.25 percent. These numbers were disheartening to Wall Street, which had become accustomed in the past five years to an economy with 4.5 percent average growth and a 4 percent jobless rate. But those were extraordinary times. Over the last 40 years, the economy has grown 3.5 percent per year and unemployment has averaged about 6 percent. Measured against that longer frame of reference, next year's forecast from the Fed seems right in line with reasonable expectations. 
That assumes, of course, that the economy will follow the same regularities as over the last four decades. Many experts are becoming convinced that recent advances in technological infrastructure and labor productivity have fostered fundamental changes in the economy's ability to grow. It is too early, however, to know such things for sure. During the middle to late 1960's, the economy underwent a similar period of fast growth and low unemployment concurrent with technological improvements. That boost was temporary, as the most recent one may well be.
Mr. Greenspan's comments confirmed investors' speculation that he was ready to make more interest-rate cuts in an attempt to jerk the economy out of its slumber. He clearly has a personal incentive to try, as this may be his last chance to influence events. Soon his maneuvering room will run out. The target for the federal funds rate is currently 3.75 percent. Since the Fed's policy tools took their current form, no chairman has pushed the rate below 3 percent for fear of a deflationary doldrums similar to the one dogging Japan.
Another variable in the economy's equation is the effect of President Bush's tax cut. On Friday the Treasury began mailing rebate checks to America's taxpayers. If most recipients spend the extra money, the nation's retail sales might remain strong for another quarter. On the other hand, if most people save the money in banks or buy securities, that would make the money available for investment in the private sector. The latter would help the economy more in the long run.
The Fed's forecast for 2002 suggests that fiscal and monetary policy measures may already have helped the economy to turn the corner. The results may not be as spectacular as some investors had hoped, based on the stellar growth of the past five years. But with more reasonable expectations should come some new optimism. Normal conditions, after all, may be only a year away. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); INVENTORIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (69%); OLDER WORKERS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); TAX RELIEF (61%); TAX LAW (60%); SALES REBATES (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



572 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Open Door, Open Questions; 
This Way Up

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ALLOWING the more than three million Mexicans living in the United States illegally to earn permanent lawful residency is an idea packed with political, economic and even foreign policy risks for both George W. Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico.
 The American courts are still sorting out legal challenges from an amnesty program 15 years ago. The shaky economy could dump new visa-toting workers on the street. And carrying out the complex details of such a plan would fall to a neophyte federal immigration commissioner. Then there is the threat of a rebellion by some influential conservative Republicans, as well as anger from anti-immigrant groups, which could badly divide the party going into next year's midterm congressional races and complicate Mr. Bush's re-election bid in 2004. 
 Given these hurdles, why are Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox trying to strike a deal over what would be one of the biggest changes in immigration policy in the past quarter-century? 
At the heart of Mr. Bush's thinking is that America needs immigrants -- legal and illegal -- who are hard-working, home-buying, tax-paying residents with children who are United States citizens. And, by the way, so does the Republican Party.
Mr. Bush is trying to recast his party's anti-immigrant image, put more compassion into his own conservative theology and win over a bigger share of the nation's fastest-growing demographic group: Latinos, 6 in 10 of whom are of Mexican origin. In last fall's election, Mr. Bush won about one-third of the Latino vote, the most since Ronald Reagan in 1984. But the president's pollsters have told him he needs to increase that share to at least 40 percent in 2004 to win a second term.
Currently, there is a small-scale, cumbersome plan that allows "guest workers," mostly agricultual laborers, to get temporary visas. Under the proposal being floated, an expanded pool of new migrants could apply for temporary work permits with the possibility of earning permanent residency over time. At least some of the illegal Mexicans already in the United States would earn permanent lawful status if they could certify they had been living and working in the country for a certain amount of time.
Labor unions have proven to be a strong ally in this effort. After decades of opposition toward immigrants, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. now backs a legalization plan as a way to recruit new members and to prevent illegal immigrants from undercutting American wages. Hispanic leaders say such a generous plan would win over Latino voters and show that Mr. Bush can stand up to lawmakers in his own party who oppose such a measure.
For Republicans have long been split over immigration. One wing has favored immigration as an engine of entrepreneurial innovation and a means for attracting global talent from Chinese computer programmers to Nigerian nurses. The United States Chamber of Commerce solidly backs the new guest-worker proposal, as do farmers and hotel owners. 
But another bloc of Republicans urges limits on legal immigration to curb sprawl and population growth, and opposes legalizing illegal immigrants (who tend to vote Democratic if they become citizens) as a dangerous precedent. Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican whom Mr. Bush usually counts as one of his biggest backers, calls the legalization proposal "very bad policy," saying "it rewards lawlessness."
LEGALIZING immigrants could also pay foreign-policy dividends for Mr. Bush, who has struggled on other important global fronts. As a former governor of Texas who speaks Spanish, Mr. Bush has proclaimed Mexico his specialty and has sought to strengthen the hand of his friend, Mr. Fox, by breaking new ground in talks on trade, energy and drug trafficking. It is the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's broader strategy to emphasize Latin American issues.
The stakes are equally high for Mr. Fox, whose election last year ended decades of one-party rule in Mexico. Winning permanent legal status for millions of his people would send the message that Mr. Fox, a wealthy former Coca-Cola executive, cares about the rights and welfare of everyday Mexicans. (Not to mention their votes, if he can win approval for Mexicans living here to cast absentee ballots.)
Any legalization plan would be part of a broader agreement to regulate migration and combat the immigrant-smuggling and illegal crossings that have left hundreds of Mexicans dead in the harsh Southwestern deserts and mountains. "My goal with full determination will be committed to looking for the most rights possible to the maximum migrants possible, 100 percent of them, as soon as possible," Mr. Fox told a cheering crowd of Latino rights advocates in Milwaukee last week during a Midwestern trip to drum up United States investment in Mexico and champion the legalization idea.
Mr. Fox's candor in addressing migration is a departure from his predecessors, who turned a blind eye to cross-border traffic. "If Fox is able to convince Bush to push through a legalization program, it will make him seem as if he's dealing with the U.S. as an equal partner," said Tatcho Mindiola, director of the Center for Mexican American Studies at the University of Houston.
Indeed, the two leaders have mutually reinforcing goals. If Mr. Fox can succeed in stabilizing the border, the United States stands to gain a stronger trading partner, a safer border and fewer problems with illegal immigration overall. "In diplomacy, the adage is, if both sides can call it a win, you have a deal," said Pamela S. Falk, a professor of international law at the City University School of Law in New York and a former top House aide on Latin American issues.
The legalization issue has exploded in the past week. It is an outgrowth of a meeting in February between the two presidents at Mr. Fox's ranch in Mexico, at which the leaders created a cabinet-level working group to resolve border and immigration issues. With Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox eager to announce broad measures at their summit meeting here in early September, the calendar is suddenly driving both sides to prepare proposals for their bosses to review.
The American group, led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft, is expected to send its recommendations to the White House as early as this weekend. But many details are unresolved and any plan would need the approval of Congress. In any event, it is probably too late to push through broad changes this year, but the political forces aligning on several fronts have improved prospects for a bill down the road. 
Mr. Bush has said he opposes a blanket amnesty like the one President Reagan enacted in 1986, which ultimately allowed about three million illegal residents of all nationalities to adjust their status based largely on whether they had been living in the country since 1982. The 1986 law sought to reduce illegal immigration, first by granting the one-time amnesty and then by imposing sanctions on employers who hired illegal workers. Just the opposite happened.
"The fundamental fallacy was thinking that if we change the law in Washington, Mexicans would stop coming to find jobs," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant advocacy group. "Immigrants just got false documents and unscrupulous employers hired them."
Mr. Bush's aides are weighing plans that would allow illegal immigrants and new temporary workers -- just Mexicans for the moment -- to earn their legal status, probably through a series of work or residency requirements. "Bush is talking about a radical departure from the 1986 law, a bilateral foreign policy initiative that attempts to regulate the orderly flow of people back and forth in the globalized economy," said Mr. Sharry. 
In 1986, immigration was a niche issue for a handful of lawmakers. But these days politicians from Mr. Bush to Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, court the immigrant vote. No one seems better positioned to capitalize on this sentiment than Mr. Fox. "The prospects for a better life on both sides of our common border will be enhanced by what we do and will be diminished by what we fail to do," Mr. Fox said last week. "The time to act is now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Widening the welcome mat: pointing north to the border from Tijuana, Mexico. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); AMNESTY (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); REFUGEES (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); LICENSES & PERMITS (61%); RELIGION (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; AMNESTIES; LABOR 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (85%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) SCHMITT, ERIC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



573 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: GENOA SUMMIT MEETING: THE OVERVIEW; 
ALLIES TELL BUSH THEY'LL ACT ALONE ON CLIMATE ACCORD

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 21 

 BODY:
As tens of thousands of demonstrators marched toward the center of this ancient city and occasionally clashed with the police, the United States' leading allies told President Bush today that they intended to move ahead and ratify the Kyoto Protocol on global warming by next year, even without American participation.
 At the summit meeting of top industrial nations, protesters and riot police clashed anew, one day after a protester was killed. Today as many as 50,000 demonstrators flowed through the streets of Genoa, but outside the center of the city, where the leaders were sequestered. 
 The crowds were far larger than on Friday. The police made efforts to keep their distance, after images raced around the world on Friday of an Italian policeman shooting a demonstrator dead, and then running over his body with a jeep. 
In the day's meeting agenda, Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada said that his nation had the same position on the global warming treaty "as Japan, as Europe, as Russia: we are ready to ratify." 
Other officials suggested that a round of telephone calls among the leaders of Japan, France and Germany this week had left Mr. Bush isolated on the issue. 
Mr. Chretien said negotiators would work overnight to come up with some common language about global warming for a communique to be issued Sunday.
But he added that negotiators in Bonn, where a meeting on the subject is under way, would work on details of how the Kyoto accord would be implemented. Those negotiators moved a step closer to agreement on the final details. Page 14. Without American participation, though, the treaty would be largely ineffective. 
Mr. Chretien said the Americans had agreed to come up with an alternative proposal to Kyoto, but the Americans said they had not promised a date for delivering that plan. 
In the debate on global warming, Mr. Chretien said Mr. Bush had promised to present an alternative to the specific restrictions of the Kyoto agreement by early fall, a proposal that would presumably sidestep the Kyoto accord's specific targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to levels Mr. Bush said would cripple the American economy. 
Mr. Chretien said he was still open to hearing the American proposal, but he was not waiting for it. "They claim they will be ready," he told reporters this afternoon. "I will see." 
As the leaders politely dealt with their disagreements, the global warming issue did not come up in meetings Mr. Bush held today with President Chirac and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany.
Twenty-four hours after the death of the protester, Mr. Bush spoke about it briefly today, saying, "It's a tragic loss of life." But he insisted that protesters who "claim to represent the voices of the poor aren't doing so. Those protesters who try to shut down our talks on trade and aid don't represent the poor, as far as I'm concerned."
But while Mr. Bush insisted that the leaders should be undeterred by escalating protests at these summit meetings, President Jacques Chirac of France, sitting next to him, offered a different view. "Obviously, we have all been traumatized by the events," he said.
Mr. Chirac, referring to the protests, said: "The elected leaders of our countries have to consider the problems that have brought tens of thousands of our compatriots, mainly from European countries, to demonstrate their concern, to demonstrate their wish to change."
As sporadic scuffles with the police continued into the evening, Mr. Bush and his fellow leaders dined by the port of this ancient city, in an ornate, early 19th-century boat terminal that has been restored, along with much of this city. Even that imagery worried some leaders, who knew that the television images of their toasts would be intermingled with the scenes of rock throwing and tear gassing a mile away. 
"We have to find another way," a senior Japanese diplomat said late today. "This is no way to hold a real discussion."
The police, bedecked in an array of riot dress and armed with tear gas and more lethal weaponry, tried to take a lower profile on the streets today as they struggled to contain the largest crowds yet. They were absent entirely from the site of the shooting of the protester, even when a group of young anarchists attacked a Japanese television journalist.
The protesters who turned out on the broad boulevards here were composed of young veterans of the Friday clashes, some with bandaged wounds, union members, smartly dressed groups of citizens from towns all over Europe bearing banners with anti-capitalist slogans in different languages, and black-clad anarchists. Many of the self-described "Black Bloc" wore motorcycle helmets and waved lengths of lumber as truncheons.
The tension ran high between moderate groups who saw the gathering here of leaders from the leading industrial nations as a chance to protest against disparities between the rich and poor, and the anarchists who wanted to act out their rage after the shooting death of one of their supporters.
The plaza where that shooting took place, in front of a large Baroque church, was converted into an informal shrine today, with mounds of flowers and candles, and messages scribbled on paper and T-shirts. "May you have not departed for nothing," said one.
A little more than a mile away, President Bush and the other leaders of the Group of 8 nations held an all-morning review of security challenges in Europe and Asia, before signing a guest book of notables who have come to the home port of Christopher Columbus.
On Sunday, after the formal meetings have concluded, President Bush is to meet with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, in a session that will conclude with a joint news conference here. The meeting will be their second face-to-face session and they are expected to discuss the Bush administration's plan to pursue a broad missile defense program that will violate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty that the Russians want to preserve.
But for today, the leaders focused on their anti-poverty agenda, mindful of the rocky situation outside. "It is vitally important that democratically elected leaders legitimately representing millions of people can meet to discuss areas of common concern," the group said in a statement. The leaders said they would focus on issues "that matter most to our people," including economy, trade, job creation and, this year more than others, methods for sparking greater productivity in the poorest nations.
But in private, several of Mr. Bush's aides conceded that the imagery of the leaders meeting in the splendor of a 13th century medieval palace, while smoke and tear gas wafted over the hills nearby, seemed only to highlight the gulf between the leaders and the protesters.
The security cordon was so tight that a 15-foot fence around the central city, which demonstrators threatened without success on Friday to breach, was later reinforced. Military units at the airport kept antimissile batteries, which had been installed earlier, at the ready because of fears of a terrorist attack.
The causes represented on the street today included environmental groups like the World Wildlife Fund, Roman Catholic social workers pushing an anti-poverty agenda, pacifists and myriad national groups calling for the liberation of Iran, the liberation of the Kurds in Iraq and greater democracy in Turkey. Labor unionists were in abundance, and signs read "People before profit" and "Stop the capitalist-profit circus."
But the mix of moderate protesters and determined troublemakers served to dilute many of the messages. Some of the moderates clearly held back today, afraid for their physical safety and wary of an association with violent demonstrators whose tactics they say they abhor.
Among them was Luciano Battagli, a 60-year-old retired schoolteacher and regional union leader from Italy. "I myself am not against globalization," Mr. Battagli said. "But I don't like the bosses dictating to the world. The money they spent to do this summit, the ostentatious display of wealth and power, is a shame. They are spending more to do the summit than they are ever going to do for Africa."
Nearby, members of the Black Bloc, helmeted and bearing gardening tools and clearly itching for a fight, carried a banner declaring "Stop G-8" and shouted "bastard" and "assassino" at the police. 
A young Welsh protester named Robert, 50, wearing plaid shorts and a yellow T-shirt that said "Drop the Debt," identifying himself as a member of a group calling for more aggressive debt relief for the poorest nations, walked in the march today along the sea coast until clouds of tear gas ahead drove him back. He explained that Drop the Debt organizers had warned members who had been planning to participate in the march about safety concerns after the killing on Friday night. Many chose to hold an ecumenical prayer vigil on a church near the march route instead.
"There is a lot of anguish about the death of that young boy," he said.
Robin Fishwick from Leeds, England, who traveled here on a bus with his wife Sarah, said the chaos of the crowds and the violence has made it "very difficult" to relay their message. "We act peacefully, we get many people together, but they don't make news" because their members do not create trouble.
"Trouble makes the news, but then they don't talk about what we came here for," he said. Rather than marching today, he and other Drop the Debt participants held a vigil and teach-in about the debt problem along the route of the march.
Mr. Bush has countered the protesters by insisting that ever freer trade is the answer to the problems facing developing nations, though never once here has he explored the side effects on countries unable to compete with the richest nations. 
"Our discussions here in Europe are centered on some great goals," Mr. Bush said in a radio address broadcast this morning. "We want to spread the benefits of free trade as far and as wide as possible. Free trade is the only proven path out of poverty for developing nations. And when nations are shut off from the world, their people pay a steep price.
"The developing countries have no need for protectionist policies that would condemn them to permanent poverty," Mr. Bush said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters hurled stones and Italian riot police officers fired tear gas yesterday during summit talks in Genoa. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); President Jacques Chirac of France met with President Bush yesterday at a Genoa hotel during a break in the three days of summit talks. (Reuters)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); RIOTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; KYOTO PROTOCOL; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JEAN CHRETIEN (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (57%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) SANGER, DAVID E; STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (91%); ITALY (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) GENOA (ITALY); JAPAN; FRANCE; GERMANY; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



574 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Fortunoff Widow Puts Own Imprint on Company 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN KONIG 

DATELINE: UNIONDALE 

 BODY:
SITTING behind a large oak desk in the expansive, sun-drenched office that once belonged to her husband, Helene Fortunoff looks every bit the woman in charge. The suite in Fortunoff's Uniondale headquarters building is dominated by a wall unit lined with photos of her husband, their six grown children (five of whom work with her) and several grandchildren.
 "I'm still learning, but at the same time, I'm bringing in my own business style," said Mrs. Fortunoff, 67, who assumed the presidency of the Long Island institution formally known as Fortunoff Fine Jewelry & Silverware Inc. when her husband of 47 years, Alan, died of cancer last July. 
 It is no part-time job. In 2000, Crain's New York Business ranked Fortunoff the 79th-largest privately held company in the New York metropolitan area. Crain's reported that with five locations and 3,700 employees, the company's revenues were $445 million last year, an 8 percent increase from 1999's $408 million -- numbers Mrs. Fortunoff has confirmed. 
Besides getting involved in company finances, she now oversees housewares, in addition to jewelry, which was always her domain and "first love." 
She is much more involved in store management and regularly visits Fortunoff's five locations: the flagship store in Westbury and locations in Manhattan and Paramus, Wayne and Woodbridge, N.J. She had parts of the Manhattan store renovated to showcase antique and silver giftware, jewelry, children's jewelry, gifts and clocks. And she has expanded the company's bridal and gift registry.
"I am very hands-on at the moment," Mrs. Fortunoff said. "With time, that will probably recede. But if I don't want the formula to change, I have got to make sure everything is done correctly."
She is also committed to opening a Suffolk County location.
"We are actively looking to expand in the tristate area," said Mrs. Fortunoff, who has lived in Old Westbury for 35 years. "We are interested in Long Island and other areas and are constantly looking at new sites. Where and when things happen really depends on whatever opportunity presents itself first."
Though Mrs. Fortunoff would not confirm any specific location, Frank DeRubeis, the Smithtown Planning Board director, said that for several years the company had been eyeing property both in and across from the Smith Haven Mall, the Lake Grove location that is one of 200 malls owned by the Simon Property Group. 
Fortunoff had looked at the mall in the late 1990's, Mr. DeRubeis said, but Federated Department Stores blocked the move to prevent competition with its Macy's and Stern's stores there. But in February, Federated announced it was closing or rebranding all 24 Stern's stores in New York and New Jersey. 
Both the Simon Group, which is a part-owner with Fortunoff of the Source in Westbury, where Fortunoff's is the anchor store, and Federated declined comment.
Mrs. Fortunoff, who was previously secretary treasurer of the company, said she was undaunted by her role as president. 
"I was always very involved in the business," she said. "Our family dinner conversations always included what was going on, how we were proceeding, etc. The business was always a family entity. And when my husband passed away, it seemed natural that I would take the helm.'
Business, it seems, is in Mrs. Fortunoff's blood. Raised in Fair Lawn, N.J., she credits her father, who owned a wholesale plumbing, heating and air-conditioning business in Hackensack, with cultivating her entrepreneurial spirit. She was just 13 when she began working for him after school and during the summer.
"When I was in high school, we were on a split-session schedule due to overcrowding," she said. "So I went to school from 7:30 in the morning until noon. Then I took a bus to my father's business and worked there until the office closed. I did typing, filing, bookkeeping -- whatever was needed."
In 1950, she entered Syracuse University and, after two years, transferred the New York University School of Commerce (now known as the Stern Business School), where she recalled being "one of only two or three women in the program." She earned a bachelor's degree in business administration in 1953. That same year she married Alan Fortunoff, whom she had met in a real estate course.
She soon joined her husband in his family's business, which at the time was nothing more than a neighborhood housewares store in Brooklyn.
Eleven months later, her first child was born. Two weeks after that, she returned to work.
"I always wanted a family and a career, and no one ever told me I couldn't have both," she said. "I generally allowed myself 11 days off for the birth of my children. I had a staff to manage things at home while I worked full-time at the store.
"I made $50 a week and paid the baby nurse $60," she said. "But I knew within a period of months I'd be making $100 a week. I tell women, if their child care isn't adequate, they're going to worry, and it will affect their job performance. It's better to get the help you need and maybe come up short the first year. In the long run, you definitely come out ahead." 
"I'm not talking about replacing quality time with your kids," she said. "I always made that my priority. I'm talking about help."
It was Mrs. Fortunoff who, in 1957, spearheaded Fortunoff's entry into an uncharted area: jewelry. "My husband's interest was limited solely to silver gifts and flatware," she said, "and it was becoming apparent that that wasn't going to be an important enough business for us. We wanted to offer more luxury products with higher value."
Since then, Mrs. Fortunoff has not only built jewelry into a $120 million business, she has also won praise within the male-dominated industry. She was the first recipient of the National Jewelers Award for retailing excellence. She was the first woman invited to join the United States Carat Club, a diamond industry leadership group sponsored by DeBeers.
"I was visiting jewelry vendors around the world 38 years ago," said Mrs. Fortunoff. "Not only was I one of very few retailers traveling the world, but I was probably the only woman buyer. And people were very aware of that."
Her zeal for hard work appears to run in the family. David, her 31-year-old son, serves as president of fortunoff.com, the company's Internet shopping site. Other children in the business are Louis, vice president in charge of human resources and merchandise manager of housewares and watches; Ruth and Esther, merchandise managers of jewelry; and Andrea, a Pratt-trained architect who oversees new construction and store renovations.
Another daughter, Rhonda, is a potter in Oregon. Her work is in great demand, Mrs. Fortunoff said, but she won't ship it to the family store: "She's too concerned it will break." 
She admitted that her role as head of the family business initially prompted some second-guessing.
"You can't sit in your husband's office 10 hours an day and not wonder, 'What would he do?' But lately I've been less and less able to turn that way. Times have changed. The economy has changed. And I've had to make some even tougher decisions than he did. But I love doing it. I wasn't afraid when I was 13, and I'm not afraid now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Helene Fortunoff has been running Fortunoff's, which has five locations in the metropolitan area, since her husband died last July. "I'm still learning, but at the same time, I'm bringing in my own business style," she said. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); FINE JEWELRY (75%); JEWELRY STORES (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%); BRANDING (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (68%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNOFF'S 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (68%); SPG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (68%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%) SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES; 

PERSON: FORTUNOFF, ALAN; FORTUNOFF, HELENE; KONIG, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



575 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: The World: American Way; 
A World Seeking Security Is Told There's Just One Shield

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
GEOPOLITICS needn't be mind-bending. Think of a centuries-long floating poker game in which the lead keeps changing hands, from Greece to Rome, Spain to Britain, France to Prussia. These days, one player not only holds the chips and a stack of i.o.u.'s; he has most of his rivals' clothes, too.
 Now imagine that he wants to change the rules -- a necessity, he insists, to keep things fair for everyone. What do you do? 
 If you are Russia, a nation clearly stripped to its geopolitical skivvies, you play your China card. Which is what President Vladimir V. Putin did last week, signing a friendship treaty with Beijing that mandates increased trade, peaceful borders and -- pointedly -- arm-in-arm opposition to any attempt to rig the Great Game. 
In fact, Russia, China and, perhaps, a few European allies are starting to wonder if the United States wants to do just that.
Americans like to think of themselves as people who spurn empire -- benevolent rulers who bestride the globe not by force but, darn it all, by popular demand. There is some truth in that: to an amazing extent, what is good for America has been good for the world.
Europe and Japan could hardly have been so prosperous and democratic without America, and both still turn to Washington for direction and security. Had not George W. Bush's father rallied the world in 1990, Iraq might today have a stranglehold on its oil. Russians owe their liberty to American resolve. And Bill Clinton even invited the Kosovo war's chief critic, Russia, into the force patrolling Kosovo after NATO won.
The question now is whether that happy confluence of American and global interests -- the linchpin, in some ways, of its status as earth's first hyperpower -- can continue. And at the core of that question, ironically enough, is the emerging foreign policy of President Bush -- a policy reflected in his encounters with foreign leaders at the industrialized-nation summit these last few days, and in the reportedly successful test of a missile defense component a week ago.
It is still early. But the global consensus-building of Mr. Bush's predecessors so far has been muscled aside by a more barehanded pursuit of American interests. The new White House has all but scrapped the granddaddy of arms-control agreements, the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, as it pursues a missile defense, and it has revoked approval of the Kyoto pact to slow global warming. Mr. Bush is endorsing plans to push NATO membership to the Russian border over Moscow's objections.
The Pentagon is mulling a grand strategy shift that would curtail its global military presence -- a comfort to European and Asian allies. Today's wars, the theory goes, can be waged from afar with missiles and bombers. 
Most of these moves involve tossing out longstanding rules -- about the balance of nuclear terror, the sanctity of treaties and so forth. The resulting outcry has become so pronounced that Mr. Bush was prompted last week to publicly deny Democratic charges that he is an isolationist.
In fact, the administration is not isolationist. Unilateralist, perhaps. That term traces a thread of conservative thought that argues that the United States must seize its moment of dominance not just to secure its vital interests, but to make democracy and capitalism the permanent global order.
Whatever the logic of that philosophy, it is unquestionably making old friends feel queasy and new ones impotent.
The Russians are a case in point: Under Mr. Putin, the focus of Kremlin foreign policy has shifted from alliance with America toward a strategic relationship with China and an all-out courting of Europe. And Europeans have reason to feel uneasy: Germany in particular has invested a lot in trying to bring Russia into the Western economic fold, and none of them can want to return to the old days of having to choose between Washington's and Moscow's views of nuclear and alliance policies.
At the summit in Genoa, the European leaders could see the resentment aroused by globalization -- which is, for many of their constituents, just a shorthand for a new world order dominated by Americans. They know the resentment resonates in their own politics. Mr. Putin, who once worked for the K.G.B. in Europe, knows it too.
So it may be useful to listen when Aleksandr Dugin, a decidedly nationalist intellectual who has founded a fashionable new Russian party and has the ears of both the Kremlin and the the Communists, says: "We see American intentions from a completely different angle than you. We see the United States as trying to organize a new colonial process, a new world domination and the one form of world government dominated by American interests."
Moscow's new friendship treaty with China, the first since the 1950's, is one means of reply. On paper, the pact amounts to little more than a blueprint for trade relations and a symbolic declaration that the two nations do not want their voice in world affairs drowned out by America. Mr. Putin himself marked its limits days after signing it, telling reporters that while Moscow and Beijing may both strenuously oppose scrapping the Antiballistic Missile Treaty, there will be no joint reaction should that occur.
But American experts say the agreement should not be discounted. 
"For American foreign policy," said Michael Mandelbaum, a foreign-policy expert at Johns Hopkins University in Washington, it is "what high blood pressure is to a heart attack: It's a warning sign. And it says that if you persist in these habits, there's going to be trouble." Indeed, Russia has already frustrated American efforts in the United Nations to construct a new set of sanctions against Iraq. In addition, Mr. Mandelbaum says, "The Europeans care a lot about what the Russians think, because they share a continent with them, and they share some of the same reservations."
In the minds of skeptics, East and West alike, here are the makings of a rent in the international security structure that the West fought a 50-year cold war to build. In poker terms, the new world order only works if Russia and China, long ostracized, can be persuaded to play by the rules and hold a real stake in the game. That means giving Russia a geopolitical anchor -- economic and perhaps even political ties to Europe, most experts think -- instead of allowing it to revert to its historic role as a suspicious loner bent on surrounding itself with a buffer zone of satellite states.
THE skeptics say American unilateralism does just the opposite at a crucial moment. America and Russia "no longer view one another as enemies," says Alexei Arbatov, a military expert for the Russian parliament, but they are not yet allies, and building a consensus -- with, say, a military treaty between Russia and NATO -- could lead to a genuine alliance. But "the reverse is also true," he said. "Early rejection of treaties and accords may escalate a lack of security, breed mutual suspicions, and return the states to the phase of detente and hostility."
There is another side to this debate, of course, and it goes: However much the Russians, Chinese and Europeans may dislike American unilateralism, they will tolerate it. The cost of tugging too hard on Superman's cape is simply too steep. It is no secret, for example, why the alliance between China and Russia is mostly words and not action: the $120 billion a year in Chinese-American trade is 12 to 15 times the total between America and Moscow.
Moreover, even some Russians argue that the Bush administration's no-nonsense approach to power has its benefits. Boris N. Yeltsin's first foreign minister, Andrei Kozyrev, says the Clinton White House maintained the fiction that Russia was an equal partner too long. Mr. Yeltsin, he said, never got over the shock of realizing too late that "Friend Bill" truly would expand NATO into the old Warsaw Pact. 
"Let's take measures before things get out of hand, before there is humiliation," he said. "Just clearly tell the people that yes, we are going for this missile-defense research, we are going with NATO expansion. I think Putin is young and clever and strong enough to handle straight talk."
And if not? Sergei Rogov, the director of Moscow's U.S.A. and Canada Studies Institute, posits what he calls the "sad scenario" in 2002. First, he says, comes an open American breach of the ABM Treaty, followed by a decision to grant NATO membership to the Baltic states. The last straw is a drop in oil prices, robbing Russia of its ability to pay its huge Western debt.
Mr. Rogov said at a seminar last month that he doubted all three would happen, but if they did, Russia's option would be clear: "I remember," he said, "that in my remote childhood, we used to sing 'Russian and Chinese are Brothers for Centuries.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (84%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (84%); POKER (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (71%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%) WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%); KOSOVO (92%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (73%) RUSSIA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



576 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Bush Energy Dance

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DESPITE a bout of laryngitis that had him whispering hoarsely at times, Vice President Dick Cheney finally seemed to find his voice -- politically speaking -- in promoting the Bush administration's energy goals. 
 Gone were references to conservation as a mere "personal virtue" with no place in sound public policy. "Conservation is a must," he said instead. If the nation still needs as many as 1,900 new power plants by 2020, he is not stressing the point. The core values of the strategy he shaped in May, he said last week on a road tour to promote the plan, were energy efficiency and "better stewardship of the environment." 
 The change of tune is good politics. And many House Republicans, who after the loss of the Senate to Democratic control must carry the legislative banner for the plan, say that is a relief. Many people will debate the pros and cons of the Bush plan, but there is little disagreement that the White House mishandled the selling of what once promised to be a defining issue of President Bush's first year in office. 
"We had a problem of framing this thing from the start," said Joe Barton, a Texas Republican who helped fashion part of a broad energy package working its way through the House. "It took some time to find the political center."
The White House may have been battling the last energy crisis. 
President Bush came into office in January talking as if the nation faced a national energy emergency like the one in the 1970's, when Arab nations slapped an oil embargo on the United States and the nation struggled for years to contain rising fuel prices. But the comparison never really took. This was not Jimmy Carter's energy crisis.
There is the question, for starters, of whether there was a crisis at all. Gasoline and natural gas prices rose sharply. But in a free market without artificial constraints -- like an OPEC embargo -- prices are moving targets. Energy companies react quickly to high prices by finding or producing more oil, natural gas and gasoline, and prices go down.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney made the most of high prices in the spring. They called them emblematic of acute supply shortages that only a national energy strategy focused on increasing supply, streamlining regulations and promoting efficiency could solve. But before Congress had voted on a single new measure, prices fell. So did the salience of the White House's message.
"They confused chronic problems with a short-term crisis," says David Nemtzow, president of the Alliance to Save Energy. "They did not anticipate what happens when the crisis is over."
California arguably had a genuine crisis, but the White House claimed there was little to be done about it. 
Mired somewhere between regulated power and the free market, the state experienced extraordinary wholesale electricity prices. Under pressure to help the state control those prices, Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bush took another lesson from the 70's -- the failed experiment with wage and price controls. They adopted a principled stand against market interference. Mr. Bush said repeatedly that he opposed price controls because they "do nothing to increase supply or reduce demand."
Mainstream economists agreed with the president -- in theory. But Gov. Gray Davis of California, a Democrat, read the politics -- and the law -- better. Under the New Deal-era Federal Power Act, federal regulators are obliged to set "just and reasonable" electricity rates.
BILLY TAUZIN, the Louisiana Republican who heads the House Energy and Commerce Committee, realized before the White House did that something had to be done. He helped persuade the Republican chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to step in with broad price controls. The administration quietly labeled the steps "market-based mitigation" and acquiesced. When the controls coincided with a sharp decline in California electricity prices, it was Mr. Tauzin and Governor Davis who got the credit.
Mr. Carter and other 70's-era political leaders might have done too much to interfere with industry. But Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney appeared to do too little. 
Since both are oil industry veterans, as are several cabinet and staff members who helped draft the energy strategy, they arguably had a higher burden to reach out to the other side -- environmentalists and consumers.
MR. CHENEY said last week that he and his staff were sensitive to environmental concerns "from the very first meeting" they had to discuss energy in January. But though the energy report was four months in the making, they had no high-profile meetings with environmentalists or consumer groups until after their report was published. Numerous industry executives visited the White House to discuss their concerns before publication. The political die was cast.
The General Accounting Office, prodded by two House Democrats, has demanded to know with whom Mr. Cheney and other officials met in the course of compiling its energy plan -- and has been repeatedly denied the information. Now, the administration is locked in its first Clintonesque legal struggle with Congress, one that promises to drag on for months.
But perhaps the administration's biggest single misreading of the 70's was the decision to play down conservation. Twenty-five years ago, Mr. Carter appeared on camera in a sweater and exhorted everyone to turn the heat down to 68 degrees. The call for sacrifice did Mr. Carter no good in the polls, and the Bush White House judged -- perhaps correctly -- that Americans were not prepared to make a major sacrifice in living standards.
What administration officials may have misjudged is that many conservation and energy efficiency standards require little sacrifice in living standards. Moreover, though the 70's were stagnant and inflationary, the 90's were fat and exuberant. Beneficiaries might have been comfortable enough to entertain a few admonishing words about gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. Polls suggest that people are at least eager for the idea of saving energy to be raised before companies start drilling where the caribou run.
The White House did propose some conservation and efficiency measures, but it undersold them, relying on conservative estimates of how much they could help balance supply and demand. 
Officials also remained mum on whether to raise Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, pending a scientific analysis of regulations that have been in force since Mr. Cheney served as President Gerald R. Ford's chief of staff. The standards, which require automakers to meet fuel economy averages for all the cars and trucks they sell, are the centerpiece of oil conservation proposals.
Once again, House Republicans took the lead. Spurred into action by Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, four House committees drafted pieces of an energy package that incorporated some of the administration's goals, greatly expanded others and ignored still others. They are proposing to spend billions more than the White House suggested to promote conservation and efficiency. Mr. Barton and Mr. Tauzin forged a modest but potentially ice-breaking compromise to increase fuel economy standards, while the White House remained silent on the sidelines.
Mr. Bush likely can claim credit for any energy legislation that makes it through Congress -- after all, he put the issue on the public agenda. But nimble political leadership is required to keep Washington's mandate of heaven. It gets yanked if politicians stumble too many times, and the Bush energy team is widely perceived as having tripped.
"I think the White House found out that there's no learning curve," said Ken Johnson, a top aide to Mr. Tauzin in the House. "They played a vital role, but I don't think they'll get center stage at the curtain call."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Arthur Murray Dance Studios) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%) ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (89%); JOE BARTON (72%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



577 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.'s Unsung Centrists 

 BODY:
Last week's brief rebellion by Republican moderates in the House over President Bush's "faith-based initiative" ended tamely with vague promises from the White House to review complaints that the bill would override state and local anti-discrimination laws. Still, the grumbling over one of the signature issues in Mr. Bush's domestic agenda was a reminder of the gap between Mr. Bush and the moderate wing of his Congressional party. Republican moderates in Congress, in turn, reflect the feelings of their constituents -- voters who supported Mr. Bush but do not like the policy trends of his administration on certain key issues. 
 The moderates' discontent has already been amply ventilated on issues relating to the environment and energy. Mr. Bush and his key advisers do not seem to grasp that many Republican suburbanites and affluent party contributors are also ardent environmentalists who give their time and money to conservation organizations. In recent weeks, the House, led by a coalition of Democrats and moderate Republicans, has been able to force Mr. Bush to scale back his plans for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, keep oil rigs out of the national monuments and keep his hands off the Endangered Species Act. Now such policy differences are spilling over into health care and campaign finance reform. 
 On patients' rights, an issue that may come to a head in the House this week, the moderates seem more in tune with the public than Mr. Bush is. The polls suggest a widespread desire for disciplined regulation of managed care plans, including the right to sue. The moderates have been backing a bipartisan bill sponsored by Greg Ganske, an Iowa Republican, and John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, which allows aggrieved patients broad recourse in both federal and state courts. Mr. Bush supports a less aggressive alternative.
A recent vote on another health care issue has encouraged the moderates to think they might have a chance to tip the balance to the Dingell-Ganske alternative. In that vote, 13 Republicans on the Appropriations Committee broke rank to approve continued contraceptive coverage for federal employees. The vote sent a cautionary message to Mr. Bush on family planning, another area where many Republicans disagree with the party's religious right.
Campaign finance is another point of division. Nineteen Republicans defied their leaders earlier this month on a procedural issue that ultimately denied the Shays-Meehan reform bill a full vote on the House floor. Now Republican moderates -- especially Northeasterners like Sherwood Boehlert and Amo Houghton of New York and Marge Roukema and James Saxton of New Jersey -- will have much to say about the effort to force a floor vote through a discharge petition. Not surprisingly, these are the same people who can be counted on to provide a reliable antidote to the right-wing property rights advocates, the right-to-lifers, the anti-gun-control groups and other social conservatives who wield excessive influence over Mr. Bush's White House and his own political calculations.
The weeks ahead will provide real tests of the moderates' patience and persistence, especially on energy issues. The House Resources Committee, for example, has approved a bill that endorses drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and eases restrictions against oil exploration on public land. There is also likely to be a fight over raising fuel economy standards. In both cases, a cluster of moderate Republicans is likely to be at odds with the White House. In both cases, however, the moderates are likely to have the public, including a large slice of G.O.P. voters, on their side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PETITIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); TRENDS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (69%); NATIONAL PARKS (67%); APPROVALS (62%); CONTRACEPTION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JIM SAXTON (58%); JOHN DINGELL (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (75%); GULF OF MEXICO (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



578 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: What Do Poor Nations Need Most? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Though distressed by President Bush's apparent lack of compassion at home and abroad, I am proud of his address to the World Bank urging a shift from loans to gifts for humane aid to poor countries (front page, July 18). 
Such gifts could be directed toward medical aid and educational projects, with their administration carefully monitored. 
 Together with the opening of export markets, this international "affirmative action" would surely raise and stabilize struggling economies, make military coups less likely and foster world stability. If rich countries must then dig a little deeper, so be it.

(Rev.) ALEXANDER HARPER
Norwalk, Conn., July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); TRENDS (85%); EXPORT TRADE (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%); COUPS (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) HARPER, ALEXANDER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001 



579 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
DVD's Shine Despite Tough Market for Electronics

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Consumers may have less money to burn on gadgets these days, but that has not stopped them from buying DVD players. 
 Retailers in the United States sold 5.2 million digital videodisc players in the first half of 2001, according to the DVD Entertainment Group, a trade association based in Los Angeles. Sales grew 69 percent from the first half of 2000, bringing the total numbers of players sold since the DVD format was introduced in 1997 to 20.4 million. 
 The sharp increase in popularity comes when sales of other devices have suffered. Electronics and appliance retailers reported falling revenue each month from January to May, according to a recent report from the United States Census Bureau.
And yet, more recently, the uncertain economy may have slowed even the sales growth of DVD players, which are competing with VHS-format VCR's in the home-video market. DVD player sales fell to 2.5 million in the second quarter, from 2.7 million in the first three months of the year, a decline of 7 percent. Sales usually drop off after the Christmas season, but this was the first time the DVD market shrank in the second quarter, compared with the first.
Despite the downturn in players, shipments of DVD software rose in the period to 81.7 million from 69.1 million. More than 460 million DVD discs have been shipped since 1997, the trade group said.
Emiel N. Petrone, who is the DVD trade group's chairman and also an executive vice president with the Philips Entertainment Group Worldwide, said the format's success was a result of a widening range of features and more attractive prices, as well as the release of a rapid succession of hit movies from major Hollywood studios.
P. J. McNealy, an analyst with GartnerG2, the growth strategy division of Gartner Dataquest, said DVD's represent better entertainment to consumers, and "people will pay for entertainment."
In February 2000, according to Gartner, about 8 percent of the nation's households had DVD players, compared with 96 percent with VCR's. By May of this year, DVD ownership had increased to 12 percent of households. Mr. McNealy said he expected the transition to DVD players to accelerate as prices continued to decline.
"The fact that you can get a player for $150 -- that's as close to the sweet spot as you can find," Mr. McNealy said.
 CHRIS GAITHER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Video Star"Sales of DVD players rose 68 percent in the first half of this year, exceeding previous forecasts. DVD PLAYERS SOLDMillions of players, first half of each year '98 -- 0.27'99 -- 1.3'00 -- 3.1'01 -- 5.2 (Source: DVD Entertainment Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CD & DVD DRIVES (93%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (79%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); FILM (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (73%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CENSUS (70%); CHRISTMAS (52%) RECORDING EQUIPMENT; DVD (DIGITAL VERSATILE DISK); SALES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



580 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
If you thought rates were down for commercial time on network TV, take a look at cable.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
ADVERTISERS are agreeing to buy television commercial time ahead of the 2001-2002 season from cable networks and program syndicators at rates even lower than those negotiated last month, when they made plans to buy commercial time in advance of the coming season from the broadcast networks.
 The average decreases in rates are being estimated at 15 percent to 20 percent -- even more in some instances. That compares with average decreases of 6 percent to 8 percent in rates for commercial time sold by the broadcasters like ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC. 
 In another indication of just how much the economic slowdown is affecting advertising, most agencies are deciding to spend less money for clients in the so-called upfront market for cable and syndicated programs than was spent before the 2000-2001 season began. That's despite the lower out-of-pocket costs resulting from the lower rates. 
Indeed, the total amount to be spent on cable TV spots ahead of the new season could fall as low as $4 billion, said Jack Myers, chief economist at Myers Reports in New York, which publishes media and research newsletters. That would represent a 16.7 percent decline from $4.8 billion worth of cable commercials sold in the upfront market last summer.
The total amount to be spent on commercials during syndicated shows -- everything from new episodes of "Oprah" and "Jeopardy" to reruns of familiar series like "Friends" and "Seinfeld" -- could fall as low as $2 billion, the trade publication Mediaweek estimated, down 27.3 percent from $2.75 billion sold ahead of time last summer.
In both instances, those declines would considerably exceed the shortfall suffered in the upfront market last month for broadcast commercial time, as total spending fell to an estimated $6.9 billion, down 11.5 percent from $7.8 billion last summer.
"Budgets are down and decreases are greater," said Andrew Donchin, director for national broadcast at Carat USA in New York, a media agency in the Carat International division of the Aegis Group. 
"The negotiations are also being strung out longer," he added. "People are afraid to commit because it's hard to read where the bottom of this market is."
The negotiations to buy commercial time on the broadcast networks also went on for many weeks more than has been typical in the last several years, when advertisers rushed to pay ever-rising prices because they feared waiting would result in even higher rates.
"The clients want revenge because the increases over the last several years were high," said Ronald M. Schneier, executive vice president for sales and marketing at A&E Television Networks in New York. "And some networks are saying, 'Maybe we pushed a little too hard.' "
"The business this year has become a commodity business," he added, as agencies pay more attention to deals at lower rates for every thousand viewers, known as cpm's, than to "the quality of programming." A&E, which operates cable networks like Arts and Entertainment and History Channel, is owned by ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company; the Hearst Corporation; and NBC, a division of the General Electric Company.
The cable and syndication sales executives who are signing agreements with agencies are the ones "saying, 'Give me the dollars and I've give you a nice cpm,' " said Dan Rank, managing partner at OMD in New York, a media agency owned by the Omnicom Group, or they are the ones "saying, 'Hold your dollars flat' -- which in this market is something of a feat -- 'and we'll give you a nice minus.' "
Mr. Rank defined a "nice minus" as "20 percent off on the cpm, sometimes more."
But some executives "are holding at minus 7 percent and are not budging," he said, "and at minus 7 I'm in no hurry to make deals."
Mr. Myers, whose newsletters include The Myers Report, estimated the average decline in cost per thousand viewers for cable at 15 percent and "starting at minus 20 percent" in the upfront market for syndicated shows, which is proceeding even more slowly than the upfront market for cable.
Among the cable networks "best at holding the line" on lowering cpm rates, Mr. Myers listed two networks owned by Viacom, MTV and VH1; one, Comedy Central, owned by Viacom and AOL Time Warner; and one, E!, that is part of Disney.
Among the networks "doing well on a dollar basis," in terms of total revenue, Mr. Myers listed CNBC, like NBC part of General Electric; CNN, owned by AOL Time Warner; and Lifetime, owned by Disney and Hearst. The bigger cable networks like Discovery, part of Discovery Communications; Lifetime; and the TBS and TNT units of AOL Time Warner have made more deals with agencies than the smaller ones.
"The buyers are getting more and more invigorated," said Joe Mandese, editor of Media Buyer's Daily, a newsletter recently introduced by Brill Media Holdings in New York.
But for the sellers, "it's getting ugly," he added, "because there's too much supply in a declining market."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA SYNDICATION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); PRICE INCREASES (63%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AEGIS GROUP PLC (63%); A & E TELEVISION NETWORKS LLC (50%)

TICKER: AGS (LSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (63%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



581 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Arrest Raises Stakes in Battle Over Copyright 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON and JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
The arrest last week of a Russian programmer accused of violating an American digital copyright law has stirred an opposition, both against the law itself and Adobe Systems, the software company that initiated the case against the programmer. 
 The Russian, Dmitri Sklyarov, was arrested last Monday at a computer hacker convention in Las Vegas, where he made a presentation about the security flaws in the encryption software, like Adobe's, used to prevent the piracy of electronic books. 
 Mr. Sklyarov, who is being held in a Las Vegas jail, was detained under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, which makes it a crime to traffic in devices, like software, that circumvent digital encryption. Violations are punishable by as much as five years in prison and a $500,000 fine. 
Civil liberties advocates have challenged the law as a restriction of free speech in two civil cases. But Mr. Sklyarov, a 26-year-old Moscow graduate student, is one of the first to face criminal prosecution. 
"It's distressing that if someone writes software they say is secure and you prove them wrong you, can go to jail," said Sam Phillips, 23, a network administrator at a Web design company in Reno, who planned to organize a protest at the federal building there. 
Eager to head off a protest rally planned for today in front of Adobe's corporate headquarters in San Jose, Calif., executives agreed to meet with civil liberties advocates.
Calls for boycotts of Adobe products have sprung up across the Web. A "Free-Sklyarov" e-mail list, started by an unemployed computer consultant in San Francisco, has several hundred members and has generated more than 1,000 messages. And the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group that is underwriting the civil cases challenging the copyright law, said it had accepted more than 200 new members last week, compared with an average of six a day. 
The foundation helped schedule protests in nearly a dozen cities, including Moscow, for today. But on Friday afternoon, the group said that Adobe had agreed to discuss the issue if the foundation withdrew its support for the San Jose protest.
"Out on the Internet, there is a lot of mudslinging going on," Holly Campbell, a spokeswoman for Adobe, said. "We want to have a frank discussion with the E.F.F. about what is our common ground, and how we can move forward." 
But it is unclear whether either side could stop the momentum of the protests. In addition, the Justice Department, and not Adobe, has discretion over whether to press the charges against Mr. Sklyarov. 
"This is out of our hands," Ms. Campbell said. "It's in the government's hands now."
Adobe officials said the company had pushed the government to arrest Mr. Sklyarov because it felt that it was unlikely to succeed in a civil lawsuit against the Moscow company he worked for, ElcomSoft. ElcomSoft began selling a program that cracked Adobe's e-book encryption software in late June. 
ElcomSoft said the program, which was sold for $99, lets legitimate consumers of e-books stretch the limits imposed by Adobe's software, which often prohibits them from making a copy of a book to read on an additional computer or to use as a backup in case it is erased. 
In any case, both the arrest of Mr. Sklyarov and the rising criticism signify an escalation of stakes in the battle over how copyright will be defined in the digital age. Mr. Sklyarov's case demonstrates that criminal digital copyright charges may soon have less to do with actual copying than with circumventing security measures. 
Consumers, companies and copyright holders are already squaring off over the control of digital music and movies: books are the logical next step. 
Indeed, the publishing industry says e-book security is critical precisely because it has taken heed of the explosive interaction between unencrypted music CD's and the rise of peer-to-peer distribution technologies like Napster that let people swap files from PC to PC over the Internet.
"The music industry's experience scared us to death because we watched them all get really harmed by people Napsterizing them," said Patricia Schroeder, president of the Association of American Publishers. "We're pleased to see the federal government weigh in and enforce this seriously. That's what we had dreamed of." 
She added, "The federal government is saying how important intellectual property is in our economy."
Still, many legal experts and civil liberties advocates argue that the Digital Millennium Copyright Act goes too far in the direction of protecting the rights of copyright holders at the expense of consumers, and individual free speech rights. Unlike traditional copyright law, the 1998 statute does not govern copying, but rather the ability to make or provide a way to gain access to encrypted material, which it would then be possible to copy. 
"Copyright infringement has always been exceedingly sparing with criminal liability," said Jessica Litman, a law professor at Wayne State University and author of "Digital Copyright." (Prometheus, 2001). "That criminal felony liability is being imposed for behavior that isn't even copyright infringement, for making a tool which may have legitimate uses, is the kind of reach that we haven't had before." 
Many computer security experts say that the best way to ensure secure software systems is to publish the vulnerabilities of existing ones, and that Mr. Sklyarov's arrest would have a chilling effect on work in that field. Because of that, a group of computer scientists has asked a court to overturn parts of the 1998 law. 
And on Friday, a prominent British programmer, Alan Cox, resigned from the board of Usenix, a security conference organizer, saying in a letter, "It has become apparent that it is not safe for non-U.S. software engineers to visit the United States." 
In a civil case involving a program that decrypts DVD's, the publisher of an online magazine argued that the Digital Millennium Copyright Act was unconstitutional because it violated the concept of fair use. The publisher argued that if digital movies, music and books are locked up with encryption software and it is illegal to make or use anything that breaks the encryption, consumers lose the rights they have historically had to copy portions of works for purposes like scholarship or parody. The case is on appeal before a federal court in Manhattan.
"You can say I have the right to do something, but if I don't have the ability to do something, it doesn't mean anything," said Siva Vaidhyanathan, an assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin at Madison and author of "Copyrights and Copywrongs," a forthcoming cultural history of American copyright law. "This is part of the absurdity of the D.M.C.A."
But some industry observers say that efforts to police the security of e-books may ultimately work against the nascent e-book market, which unlike digital music and video industries, has yet to take off. 
"In order to stop professional thieves, they're putting all kinds of restrictions on me, the reader," said Roger Sperberg, an e-book enthusiast who writes a column for the informational Web site eBookWeb.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); PRISONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); CRIMINAL FINES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (68%); BOYCOTTS (65%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (51%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPUTER SECURITY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COPYRIGHTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION 

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (96%); ADB (FRA) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY; LEE, JENNIFER 8; SKLYAROV, DMITRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



582 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: A Difficult Financial Future Awaits Midsize Arts Groups, Report Finds 

BYLINE:  By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
Last fall, Ballet Arizona of Phoenix prepared to close after 15 years because it could not meet its $60,000 payroll just six weeks before ticket sales started peaking for its lucrative "Nutcracker" season. Frantic executives hoped for miracles and publicly begged for money.
 Attendance was so tepid during the 50th anniversary season of the Abilene Philharmonic in Texas last January that not even a mix of paid and free tickets could fill the 2,100 seats at the civic center for a concert of Mahler and Beethoven. 
 The foremost presenters of the performing arts in Middle America are medium-size arts institutions like these. But in the future some of the country's homegrown institutions are likely to face continuing financial strains and even sudden death, according to a broad study of 30-year trends in the performing arts. 
To survive, many of these arts organizations will have to become more community oriented and adjust their budgets, programs and styles to build audiences, the yearlong study, prepared by the RAND Corporation and being released this week, concludes.
The study was commissioned by the Pew Charitable Trusts, the Philadelphia-based foundation that was started by the heirs of Sun Oil's founders. The Pew trust, with a $4.8 billion endowment, has put forward a $50 million, five-year initiative to shape a national cultural policy by examining issues like arts financing, intellectual property rights and arts education.
It is the arts groups in the middle -- not the blue-chip, high-profile ones like the New York Philharmonic or the volunteer, community organizations -- that face the most financial strain. Midsize organizations outside major metropolitan areas with budgets between about $650,000 and $9 million "are facing the greatest difficulty in attracting enough of the public to cover their costs," the report said. 
Those financial pressures are being felt across the country, according to many arts executives. John Munger, director of research and information for Dance/USA, a national arts organization that monitors the finances of ballet and modern dance companies, compares the stresses on the middle group to trends in the broader economy. "If you are big, if you are established and if you have name recognition you are going to have an increasingly easier time of it than someone else who is newer, younger, less institutionalized and has less name recognition," he said.
He added that medium-size ballet companies had faced "very severe challenges, and have responded to them very strongly over the last decade" with education, innovative programming and more.
"Are they having a hard time?" he said. "The answer would be absolutely yes. And a couple have come right up to the brink."
The most recent surveys indicate that 40 percent of Americans attend about five performances annually in the arts that include classical music, opera, jazz, ballet, dance and theater, according to the study. That compares with 35 percent who visit a museum about three times a year and 96 percent who watch television for three hours a day.
The participation level is highest for theater and musicals and lowest for opera and ballet, with classical music solidly in the middle. Attendance levels for live performances have grown slightly every year, along with the increasing polarization of arts organizations into three distinct categories: large blue-chip institutions in big cities, grass-roots volunteer groups and regional organizations.
The midsize groups "have to face the question of what they're going to give their audience, given that earnings are an important part of their budget and funding at the corporate level is increasingly" tied up in specific projects, said Kevin F. McCarthy, the study's lead author. He added: "You face a choice. Do you focus on art, and the audience be damned? Or do we focus on how we make arts more important in people's lives?"
And if midsize organizations dwindle, the study argues, smaller towns and cities will increasingly depend on touring artists and productions as well as on grass-roots local arts groups.
Many arts institutions have already started wrestling with the issue out of stark necessity. From 1982 to 1997, attendance for live performances increased slightly in all categories, including opera, symphonic music, ballet and theater. Yet most of the increase was caused by population growth, not by a rising percentage of people attending.
In the mid-1990's, seven midsize orchestras filed for bankruptcy, including those in San Diego and Sacramento, according to the American Symphony Orchestra League in New York. "Orchestras as nonprofits are always in a vulnerable position," said Jack McAuliffe, a vice president of the league. "There was a period when we saw bankruptcies, but most came back within a year or two. And some came back in different forms. In New Orleans, they came back as a musician-controlled orchestra."
Midsize dance companies, with much smaller budgets, usually between $1 million and $5 million, are even more vulnerable than orchestras. Dance/USA said this midtier group of dance companies was showing the pressure. In 1990, 65 percent of these groups were reporting budgets in the black; by 1998 the figure had dropped to 42 percent. 
Ballet Arizona, for example, was a few pirouettes away from collapsing when its board chairwoman, Gwen Hillis, announced that the company, the only fully professional ballet troupe in the state, would cease operations last Sept. 20. She issued an emergency appeal for donations.
The company could not meet its payroll or absorb $300,000 in expenses to continue operations until ticket proceeds started flowing in from performances of "The Nutcracker," a reliable standard that produced half of the company's annual revenue.
Most midsize arts organizations have long relied on such traditional programming, which typically draws people with a more casual interest. But as companies change their financing, the Pew study asks whether regional organizations are becoming more dependent on what they call "war-horse programming."
In Arizona, little Clara and her Nutcracker eventually surfaced for Christmas after a few individual donors contributed $160,000, along with additional gifts from 900 other contributors. "The difficulty for us is that we don't have a capital reserve," said Sherry New, the executive director of Ballet Arizona, who noted that the company had not done enough in the past to build broad support.
Now Ballet Arizona's ballerinas perform in public parks in Phoenix and Tempe to expose more people to dance, she said. The company is also recruiting volunteers, who have the potential to be transformed into passionate fans. The local Flinn Foundation contributed nearly $400,000 to build marketing and development strategies, while the company reduced its debt to about $890,000 from $1.19 million. 
"We're trying to get more people involved," she said. "There's nothing magical about it. It's a lot of little things, being sure to thank people for what they did and remembering to ask them to come again."
Artistic directors and business managers are responding to financial pressures with a variety of tactics that may reduce costs but hold the peril of also shrinking audiences, according to the Pew study. Cutting rehearsals, reducing the number of musicians and changing the programming mix are typical strategies.
In Abilene, the philharmonic started making such trims after its January concert filled only half the civic center. It replaced Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring" with Tchaikovsky's "Fourth Symphony." The shift reduced rehearsals and the brass and string sections, saving $15,000.
To draw more people, the philharmonic also started experimenting with its program mix. Most of the audience is elderly, and many of the subscribers do not attend all the concerts, said Jed Cecil, the group's executive director. The board added a concert with the Light Crust Doughboys, a Western swing band. But cloudy weather hurt sales, and there were empty seats.
Then the orchestra tried a special concert dedicated to war veterans that featured big band music, a Glenn Miller tribute and jitterbug demonstrations. The event sold out, Mr. Cecil said, and the orchestra is planning a concert next season dedicated to Beatles music, with appearances by some Fab Four impersonators. The group is also negotiating to bring in a country singer to work with the orchestra to create a popular and lucrative event that could subsidize the more classical works.
"I just got back from a meeting of the Texas orchestra managers," Mr. Cecil said. "We shut the door and talked like jurors who could finally speak freely. We're all suffering from the same problems of orchestras with budgets under $3 million: We have an aging constituency, and what are we doing to replace it? That's a very complex formula involving education and motivating people to come to your concerts."
The Pew study concedes that there is a "sparseness of literature" explaining how to increase public involvement in the arts. The study suggests that more attention be paid to arts education, an idea that many arts institutions have already recognized. In addition, it proposes developing "greater crossover between the public's interests and involvement in the popular arts and the high arts."
In Birmingham, the Alabama Symphony Orchestra is trying to follow that suggestion. It managed to rise again after filing for bankruptcy in 1993 and not performing for four years. During bankruptcy proceedings, 10 Birmingham women guaranteed a loan for the purchase of the orchestra's music library, and a local businessman enlisted as chairman of the board with a strategy to build an endowment and a $5 million operating fund. 
"I do think that going away and coming back makes people more aware of how important it is to support our symphony," said Kathy Yarbrough, the executive director, who said the organization is on a mission to build its audience after recovering from its near-death experience.
This year, on alternative-rock radio stations, it advertised a concert that included "Carmina Burana," a thundering staple of too many Hollywood movie trailers. It was a milestone of sorts, Ms. Yarbrough recalled. 
There was a sighting of the orchestra's first audience member with hot-pink hair.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judith Adee and Luis Torres in Ballet Arizona's "Nutcracker" last year. Financial problems almost canceled the show. (Tim Fuller)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BALLET (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); DANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%) CULTURE; FINANCES 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP; PEW CHARITABLE TRUSTS 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



583 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Motorola Plans to Sell Cell Phone Chips to Rivals
Motorola plans to announce today that it will begin selling its most advanced cellular phone chip sets, software and production tools to anyone who wants to buy them, including major rivals of its own handset unit.
 The company's new strategy is a bet that any potential increase in the competitive pressures on its handset business, the company's largest unit, will be more than offset by billions of dollars in new revenue and healthy profits for its chip business. Page C2. 

Satellite Company Out on Its Own
Intelsat, the collective communications satellite operator set up by the United States and other countries in the 1960's, has been transformed into a fully private company. Intelsat has been stripped of antitrust immunities, tax privileges and automatic access to markets, which had been a source of irritation to the private sector rivals that competed with it. But in leaving behind its semiofficial status, Intelsat also sheds a ponderous decision-making structure and pricing constraints that prevented it from being nimble. C4.

A David With Some Punch Left
By the usual yardstick of market share, Apple Computer is a computing pipsqueak. Its slender slice of personal computer sales is less than 4 percent in the United States, and its share of the global market is even slimmer. Yet in terms of industry attention, press coverage and attendance at trade shows like the Macworld Expo in New York last week, Apple still looms pretty large. New Economy. C4.

Making the Switch From Free to Pay
Offering consumers a free service and then converting them to paid customers has long been a retail marketing tactic. Online, that strategy has been a much tougher sell, but sites that have made the transition, like Moviefone.com, have used a strong brand and reasonable pricing. E-Commerce Report. C8.

Architect to Advise Conde Nast
James Truman, the editorial director of Conde Nast, has hired the architect Rem Koolhaas to work for the company, offering editorial and marketing advice for its magazines. C10.

Newspaper Stocks Defy Results
Despite double-digit declines in second-quarter operating profits at some of the nation's biggest newspaper companies, shares in the companies have been rising. C10.

NBC Embraces Reality Television
Some television critics and fans of NBC are all but apopleptic at its decision to add down-and-dirty fare like "Fear Factor" and "Spy TV" to its higher-toned entertainment like "The West Wing" and "Frasier." But Jeff Zucker, the man in the middle of the change of direction, is making no apologies. "We're having fun; we're having a great summer," said Mr. Zucker, the president of NBC Entertainment. "It's TV. Let's not take ourselves so seriously." Of course, NBC is mainly in the business to make money. Mr. Zucker cited the powerful appeal of the reality genre to young viewers, and he noted that NBC has dominated this summer, while its rivals have had a plunge in ratings for their reruns. C10.

Ad Discounts Even Deeper for Cable
Advertisers are agreeing to buy television commercial time ahead of the 2001-2002 season from cable networks and program syndicators at rates even lower than those negotiated last month, when they made plans to buy commercial time in advance of the coming network season. The average decreases in rates is being estimated at 15 percent to 20 percent. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C11.

Officials of Fund in India Arrested
India's federal anticorruption police, the CBI, arrested the former chairman of the country's largest mutual fund and three of its senior officials on Saturday on charges of defrauding the fund of millions of dollars. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,576.65 up 37.59Nasdaq composite -- 2,029.37 down 55.4210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.11% down 0.11The euro -- $0.8714 up 0.0174The dollar -- 122.94 yen down 1.89

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (75%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (86%); INTELSAT SA (57%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (86%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (86%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



584 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
Economics 101 at Big Tobacco U.

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Let's hear it for the tobacco industry! The latest happy news from the jovial operators of this express service to the Pearly Gates comes from the Czech Republic.
 Philip Morris officials have been passing around an economic analysis that came up with the delightful finding that the early death of smokers is good for the Czech economy. 
 Yes, indeed. We should all kick back, light up and savor this joyous data. 
Philip Morris commissioned the analysis, which was done by the consulting firm Arthur D. Little International. In compiling the many "positive" economic effects of smoking, the report unabashedly cited the "health-care cost savings due to early mortality."
The report was very clear about this. By bumping off a portion of the population, Big Tobacco was saving the Czech government millions. As The Wall Street Journal wrote:
"The premature demise of smokers saved the Czech government between 943 million koruna and 1.19 billion koruna ($23.8 million to $30.1 million) on health care, pensions and housing for the elderly in 1999, according to the report."
Philip Morris commissioned the study because it felt it had to respond to complaints from Czech officials about the huge costs of caring for people with tobacco-related diseases. The authors of the report rose admirably to that challenge.
Said The Journal: "The report also calculates the costs of smoking, such as the expense of caring for sick smokers and people made ill by second-hand smoke as well as income taxes lost when smokers die. Weighing the costs and benefits, the report concludes that in 1999 the government had a net gain of 5.82 billion koruna ($147.1 million) from smoking."
Big tobacco has long been in the business of selling a product that, when used properly, kills on a grand scale. When Dr. William Cahan was the senior attending surgeon at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, he dubbed his operating room "Marlboro Country."
As the death toll mounted to the stratosphere, the tobacco companies' preferred strategy had always been to avoid any reference to the murderous aspect of their product. Now, at least in the Czech Republic, Philip Morris officials are embracing the lethality of cigarettes, and trying to market that as a good thing. It makes you wonder what they were smoking.
There are two problems with the Philip Morris report. The first is the brazen and profoundly unethical disregard of the value of human life itself. The second is the fact that the economic benefits that are supposed to accrue from the early death of smokers are as ephemeral as smoke itself.
"The basic problem," said Derek Yach, executive director of the Tobacco Free Initiative of the World Health Organization, "is that if you've got countries -- and many in Eastern Europe fall into this category -- where access to health care is still suboptimal, you'll be able to show that alleged financial benefits outweigh costs because costs are nowhere near where they should be in terms of treating adequately the full impact of tobacco-related diseases."
The economic "benefits" from the early death of tobacco smokers vanish whenever there is adequate treatment available for the cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic lung disease and many other terrible afflictions associated with smoking.
It appears that this latest study is backfiring on the tobacco industry. People are repelled by it. And anti-smoking advocates have seized upon it as more evidence of the need for international controls on the marketing of tobacco products.
Kathryn Mulvey, who heads Infact, a corporate watchdog group, said, "Philip Morris's cynical disregard for the lives of Czech citizens, using an economic argument rejected in the U.S., illustrates the need for global controls."
Once you buy into the moral treachery of the Philip Morris position, the potential for human sacrifice as a matter of public economic policy becomes explicit, and maybe even compelling.
"If you take the argument to the extreme," said Dr. Yach, "then you could say there's no economic benefit to investing in the health care of anyone over the age of 55, so let them die. It doesn't matter what the cause of death is." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); CANCER (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); WRITERS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COS 

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (92%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%) SIC2111 CIGARETTES; 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) CZECH REPUBLIC

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



585 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Norwegians, Defying Protests, Will Sell Blubber to Japan 

BYLINE:  By WALTER GIBBS 

DATELINE: OSLO, July 22 

 BODY:
Norwegian whalers are preparing to export hundreds of tons of edible minke whale blubber to Japan in the face of widespread condemnation by nations that oppose whaling.
 Such exports would represent the first international trade in whale products in more than a decade. The Norwegian authorities minimized the export plan, calling it "normal and legal." 
 But environmentalists said it could open the floodgates to the kind of large-scale hunting that drove the blue whale, the right whale and other species to the verge of extinction in the last century. 
The United States, on the defensive on other environmental issues, took a tough but politically painless pro-whale stance before the opening of the annual meeting of the International Whaling Commission on Monday in London.
"This is a big deal for the I.W.C.," said Rolland A. Schmitten, the acting United States representative on the commission. He said Norway's plan to resume exports would "stress and strain the relationship of our two countries."
For years Norway and Japan have exploited loopholes in the International Whaling Commission's global ban on whaling. Between them they have harpooned up to 1,000 whales annually while insisting that the minke whale is not endangered at all. 
Despite their self-assuredness, Norway and Japan have complied until now with a United Nationsadministered treaty forbidding the import or export of any whale product. Norwegian whalers said the confinement had been galling.
"Norway is a country of only 4.5 million people with a very open economy -- lots of imports and lots of exports," said Rune Frovik, leader of the High North Alliance, an organization of whalers and seal hunters. "We don't have a big, diversified market like the U.S., where you have everything within your borders."
He said a resumption of exports would roughly double the value and use of whales killed off Norway. Norwegian shoppers pay about $5 a pound for lean meat, which they fry, stew or grill, but they turn their nose up at blubber.
In Japan diners pay well for blubber. Since the mid-1990's, Norwegian whale processors have stored more than 600 tons of frozen blubber in hope that their government would one day defy, or succeed in revising, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species.
Norway and Japan have lodged official reservations to the convention, so technically they can trade minke whale products between themselves without violating international law.
In January the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries announced that it approved of whale exports in principle, and this month it approved regulations and procedures for issuing export licenses. Already, three Norwegian whale processing companies have contracted to sell blubber to Japanese buyers. A ministry official said last week that the final issuing of licenses could come this fall.
The International Whaling Commission's scientific committee has estimated there are about 149,000 minke whales in the North Atlantic and nearly a million worldwide, enough to sustain a strictly controlled hunt. 
But the commission's main body, representing 43 member nations, has failed to agree on how to regulate and monitor such a hunt. As debate has dragged on, the commission has clung to the blanket moratorium that took effect in 1985.
"There is absolutely no discussion about lifting the moratorium at this meeting," Mr. Schmitten said. He said the United States had turned a blind eye to Norwegian coastal whaling until now, in part because Norway, a friend in every other respect, promised in 1993 to refrain from exporting -- which he pointedly called trafficking.
Greenpeace International said it has persuaded 21 airlines, including Scandinavian Airlines, to bar whale products from their cargo holds. Norwegian whale hunters, in response, said they would start a boycott of the airline. 
Fisheries Minister Otto Gregussen criticized the airline for giving "symbolic support to an international slander campaign against Norway."
Ole Mindor Myklebust, who has hunted whales since 1967 and also runs a processing plant on the rugged west coast, said the decision would not affect him. He will export his blubber -- 65 tons of it -- by ship. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (95%); MARINE MAMMALS (94%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); BIOLOGY (75%); SMUGGLING (75%); FISHERIES (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; WHALES AND WHALING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: GIBBS, WALTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); OSLO, NORWAY (59%) NORWAY (99%); JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) NORWAY; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



586 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: GENOA SUMMIT MEETING: THE FALLOUT; 
G-8 and Main Protest Groups Concur on Stopping Violence

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 22 

 BODY:
As both sides left Genoa, the leaders of the major industrialized nations who met here and the mainstream protest leaders began reflecting today on how to carry out their goals while avoiding the fatal violence that marred this year's meeting.
 About all they agreed upon was: never again. 
 "It's a real time for reflection, and I think no one knows the answers," said Lucy Matthew, the spokeswoman Drop the Debt, a group that promotes debt relief for poorer nations.
The leaders of the Group of 8 nations took the first step toward change, announcing that next year's summit meeting will be in a remote Canadian resort and that they hope to limit the number of those taking part to 350, down from 2,000. 
For the leaders of the tens of thousands of demonstrators who came to protest here, as they had at similar gatherings in the last two years in Seattle and Canada, Sweden and France, the process of reflection promised to be far more wrenching. For those who came determined to demonstrate peacefully, the question was how to isolate the radical anarchists who sullied their message by provoking fighting that wounded dozens of demonstrators and the killing of one protester by the police.
A few protest leaders accused the police in Italy and elsewhere in Europe of wittingly or unwittingly sabotaging the peaceful demonstration by failing to isolate and arrest the easily identifiable anarchists. But for most others, the issue was whether nonviolent organizations had gone far enough to distance themselves from the others.
"It's a sad weekend," Ms. Matthew said as she prepared to leave Genoa. She said leaders of her organization met on Friday after a 23-year-old Italian protester, Carlo Giuliani, was killed, and decided to withdraw their followers from the demonstration on Saturday. "It was purely a safety issue for us," she said.
Organizers had expected more than 100,000 to march on Saturday in the largest protest of the three days of meetings. After the violence on Friday, only about 50,000 joined the Saturday march, which also produced attacks on the police, who responded with tear gas and beatings.
Carlo Angeli, a 21-year-old anthropology student from Siena, Italy, said about 40 Siena members of Italy's hard-line Communist faction, which opposed violence, were supposed to come to Genoa, but only he and a companion came after news spread of the violence on Friday.
Like many demonstrators, Mr. Angeli said he had come to Genoa to protest globalization's effects in countries like Italy. "It destroys communities," he said.
A 33-year-old leader of an environmental group from the Italian island of Sardinia, who identified himself only by a nom de guerre, Dr. Drer, sounded the same theme. He said he had come to protest the destruction of age-old villages and the industrialization of agriculture on the island.
"They have replaced wine and rice with other fruits," he complained. "People are being forced out of villages and into residential settlements that are neither villages nor towns. They are not communities."
Some demonstrators lamented the destruction of carefully assembled coalitions as a result of the violence.
Maria Teresa Gennari, an office worker in her 30's, said she had traveled to Genoa with 20 other women -- the youngest 20, the oldest 60 -- from a feminist organization in Rome, Women in General.
"We are a movement that includes nuns, grandmothers, radical feminists, and it was the first time we found common ground," she said. "This coalition they blew to pieces."
Ms. Gennari echoed other marchers in accusing the police of helping to discredit the protests by failing to stop the radical anarchists. 
For many, what was supposed to have been an exercise in idealism turned into a nightmare. Ms. Gennari said she and her companions had visited the headquarters in a local school of the Genoa Social Forum, a group committed to nonviolence that had helped organize the marches. Early on Sunday, the police raided the school, contending that they were searching for weapons. 
Leaders of the organization accused the police of indiscriminately beating its leaders and marchers who used the school as a dormitory. Ms. Gennari said she had seen the spots of blood on the walls and floors that were left by the beatings. 
Other leaders professed helplessness in the face of the anarchists who travel from one demonstration to the next for violent protest. 
"We have no contact with them, and in some instances we don't know who they are," Ms. Matthew said. "People are really starting to think how do we deal with these guys."
To diminish the chance of violence at next year's meeting, Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada, the host, announced that it would be held in a Rocky Mountain resort town, Kananaskis, about 50 miles from Calgary, Alberta, with high security. He added, only half jokingly, "But there is less around it to destroy."
"We are the democratically elected people, and it is important for us to meet," he said. "So if the anarchists want to destroy democracy, we will not let them succeed."
To many protesters, the levers of power in the world are controlled by political leaders who hold closed meetings, by free trade organizations that care little about poor or developing countries and by banks and corporations whose principal goal is to enrich their shareholders.
Some leaders stressed that countering such misconceptions would involve increased consultations with private groups, known as nongovernmental organizations, many of which are behind the regular protests.
President Jacques Chirac of France called for "regular, natural and permanent consultations" with those groups, "to discuss and take the necessary steps to assure progress."
Other leaders rejected widening the consultative process, fearing a dilution of the personal contacts between the leaders. 
"It's a question primarily of the leaders' discussing with each other; that's a very important element," said Alfred Tacke, an aide to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany. "The protesters will always be there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of Genoa yesterday viewed damage left from the clashes between some anti-globalization protesters and the Italian police. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); RIOTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (70%); TRENDS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (90%)

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (70%) GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



587 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Refusing to Let Go, Property Owners Test Eminent Domain's Limits 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: NEW LONDON, Conn., July 19 

 BODY:
The owners of the last houses amid the scarred and weedy lots of Fort Trumbull ask only to stay there while the city of New London realizes its dream of office buildings, apartment clusters and other upscale development rising in their neighborhood. 
 But when the seven property owners go to Superior Court here Monday, they will challenge a larger practice that needy cities everywhere have latched on to: using the power of eminent domain, or condemnation, to force property owners to turn over their land to private developers. 
 Such redevelopment projects promise jobs and tax revenue in places, like New London, where private investors are hard to find. And that reasoning has generally satisfied courts that are asked to decide whether displacing one private property owner on behalf of another would, as the Constitution requires, serve a "public use."
But the New London case poses the question of whether this principle has any limits. And Matt Dery, whose family has owned houses in the old Italian-American neighborhood of Fort Trumbull since 1901, thinks it does. Mr. Dery acknowledged the sad condition of his city, the fourth poorest in Connecticut. But he asked: "Anybody who can make more money gets the property? I don't think that's what the founding fathers had in mind." 
The New London case is the kind that has turned eminent domain, for centuries a backwater of law, into a highly emotional and public issue. The battle raises questions about class and corporate behavior and the nature of government, and it is being fought by people in anguished circumstances. 
It also illustrates how those threatened by eminent domain, with the help of organized property-rights advocates, are tapping into a growing public skepticism about what used to be called urban renewal. Some see the courts becoming more critical, too, and more receptive to libertarian arguments about property rights.
Most courts say that fattening the tax base is indeed a public use, but challenges are increasing. Three small property owners in Atlantic City won a decade-long fight in 1998, and national attention, when a court ruled that their land could not be condemned to allow the expansion of the Trump Plaza hotel and casino. 
In Port Chester, N.Y., a real estate investor is challenging New York's condemnation procedures -- successfully, so far -- which he says denied him the opportunity to contest the taking of his buildings in a downtown redevelopment corridor. 
And, without ever getting to court, residents sometimes fend off condemnation by wearing down the opposition. Earlier this year, in New Rochelle, N.Y., for example, public outcry killed a plan to raze a residential neighborhood for an Ikea store.
The 1990's building boom emboldened economic development agencies, according to Gideon Kanner, a professor emeritus at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles and publisher of a newsletter on eminent domain. "Some municipalities run ads in the papers," Mr. Kanner said. "They say: 'Developers, you want to build here? We'll condemn land for you.' "
But in "a trickle of cases," he said, courts have drawn lines. In Michigan, he said, where 20 years ago the Supreme Court allowed the city of Detroit to condemn the homes of thousands of people to make way for a General Motors plant, the courts recently prohibited condemnation for a car dealership and a cable company. Mr. Kanner won a case last month in California, representing a 99 Cents Only store that was to be displaced by a Costco.
Norman Marcus, a former general counsel to the New York City Planning Commission, said that he was reluctant to identify any trend from these recent decisions but that "basically all of the cases reflect a diminished respect for government." 
Mr. Marcus said that in granting the New London plaintiffs a trial, Judge Robert Martin of Superior Court had taken an unusual step, since most legal challenges are resolved at the earlier motion stage, before the facts of the case get a public airing. 
"He is going farther than courts have gone," Mr. Marcus said, "and from that standpoint it's news." 
New London's troubles grew out of a happy event, the landing of a huge new taxpayer, the research division of the pharmaceutical company Pfizer. When Pfizer agreed in 1998 to build on an abandoned industrial site on the Thames River, city officials saw the potential for a ripple effect. 
The New London Development Corporation, the private nonprofit entity acting as the city's agent, designated 90 adjoining acres, the site of 115 houses and businesses in Fort Trumbull, for "a world-class development that will complement the undertakings of Pfizer." 
Before that announcement, though, the development corporation began buying out residents, who say they were approached by real estate agents with offers from an unidentified buyer. Those who refused were soon told that their property could be taken by eminent domain, but some still balked. 
Mr. Dery, a newspaper circulation manager, had read about the Atlantic City case. Michael Cristofaro, a computer technician who grew up in the neighborhood, said he, too, had read about the public-use issue.
"Once they got rid of the elderly," he said, "the people left were well educated and willing to put up a fight."
Last year, the remaining owners recruited the Institute for Justice, the Washington-based litigation organization that handled the Atlantic City case and several others around the nation. 
The organization, which describes itself as libertarian, has taken up issues from school vouchers (pro) to licensing requirements for hair-braiding (con). It calls the New London case a classic instance of "the unethical and unconstitutional marriage of convenience between developers and government."
Meanwhile, city officials in New London won grants from the state and approval from the planning board and, in a 6-to-1 vote, the City Council. A developer has been chosen for one section of the project, though the agreement is not final, while plans for the others are still in the blueprint phase. 
The president of the New London Development Corporation, Claire Gaudiani, said the city could not afford to forgo development that would follow Pfizer to Fort Trumbull. Moreover, Ms. Gaudiani said, new roads and infrastructure were needed to accommodate that growth and the traffic to a newly opened state park on the river. 
"There's no way to develop a tax base without making some transformations," she said. "It worked. We got a Fortune 20 company to come to a broken-down brownfield backed up to a dysfunctional wastewater treatment plant." 
Ms. Gaudiani said the city "could rest its case" on a study commissioned by the development corporation that projected $12 million a year in taxes from Pfizer and the Fort Trumbull project combined. 
The plaintiffs, who often point out that Ms. Gaudiani's husband is an executive at Pfizer, say that development can find its own way and that their neighborhood ought not be considered expendable. 
Mr. Cristofaro, sitting at the kitchen table of the house that his parents own and his brother's family lives in, nodded toward his mother and father, who immigrated from Italy in 1962 and raised five children here. 
"What kind of people do you want to live in New London if these people aren't good enough?" he asked.
Reid Burdick, a City Council member who supports the redevelopment plan, said that his father and uncle lost their business to eminent domain when he was a boy and that his parents' house in New London was taken to make room for a bridge. 
"I understand the pain and the anger that some of the folks down in Fort Trumbull are experiencing," he said.
But in this depressed city, he added, "for a lot of years elected city councils tried and tried and tried to improve the situation without absolutely crippling the taxpayer, and in the last four years we've been able to get the ball rolling." 
Scott Bullock, the Institute for Justice lawyer who is handling the case, said he was dubious. 
"That's one of the things that astonishes me about New London -- this assumption that this is going to be fantastic, that it's going to lead to a miracle in New London," he said. "Sometimes these projects do work out, but I'd think there would be some humility on the part of planners." 
One plan that did not work out, he said, was the slum clearance in Washington in the 1950's, which was approved in a Supreme Court decision giving government an all but free hand in exercising eminent domain.
"I've always described it as the height of post-New Deal, postwar optimism in government," Mr. Bullock said. "Government was going to fix everything."
Mr. Dery put it differently: "It's an idea that's outlived its usefulness," he said. "It came in in the 50's, when the cities needed it. You have to remember that that's the same time that brought us aluminum siding."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fort Trumbull, a neighborhood in New London, Conn., where seven property owners are challenging city plans to turn over their land to developers.; Sue and Matt Dery are among those suing to stop New London from condemning their land. They will get a public airing of their case today. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CITIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; EMINENT DOMAIN; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: PLAZA HOTEL & CASINO (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW LONDON (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



588 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: Support Grows for Corn-Based Fuel Despite Critics 

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ with DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22 

 BODY:
Supporters of ethanol, a fuel made from corn, are gaining in their push to make it a major part of the nation's energy policy, despite persistent doubts about its economic and environmental benefits.
 The Senate's new Democratic leaders and the Bush administration are promoting a growing number of measures to bolster ethanol demand significantly, including a nationwide mandate to blend ethanol with gasoline. Supporters say that using ethanol, a renewable fuel, helps struggling farmers, combats greenhouse gas emissions and reduces the nation's reliance on imported oil. 
 Just last month, the Bush administration, heavily lobbied by lawmakers, governors and agricultural trade groups, required California to use ethanol as a fuel additive to comply with the Clear Air Act. The order is expected to increase the nation's ethanol production by about 25 percent by 2003. 
Administration officials say their decision was a matter of air quality and current law, not politics, explaining that ethanol allows gasoline to burn more cleanly. New York may also have to rely on ethanol as an additive to its gasoline.
Hoping to build on Mr. Bush's decision, farm state lawmakers, including Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, who is the new Senate majority leader, have drafted several bills, among them one that would create up to 10 times as much ethanol demand over the next 15 years as there is now.
The backing of a powerful group of senators, which also includes Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who heads the Agriculture Committee, gives such measures their best chance in years. The legislation also has the advantage of coming up while Congress is focusing on energy policy and a major new farm bill.
But ethanol, which has been heavily subsidized for years, also has its detractors. The ethanol program, as some experts describe it, essentially takes money that would have gone to the Federal Highway Trust Fund, through gasoline taxes, and shifts it to American agriculture.
"It is a program to help farmers at the expense of another sector of the economy," Keith Collins, the chief economist at the Department of Agriculture, said.
The demand for ethanol raises corn prices, according to many studies, and backers of the subsidies say that farmers benefit substantially. The National Corn Growers Association estimates that ethanol production raises the price of corn by about 30 cents a bushel. The need for other agricultural subsidies, the association says, is therefore reduced.
But there is mounting evidence questioning the environmental benefits of using ethanol and the advantages to farmers. Critics say that most of the benefits go to large, corporate ethanol distillers.
In some cases, ethanol programs have backfired. One of the smaller programs, meant to raise fuel efficiency by encouraging automakers to produce cars capable of using ethanol, has relied on incentives that allow them to sell more gas-guzzlers. A federal panel, in a draft report, has recommended that the program be eliminated.
Some studies suggest that ethanol, a form of alcohol, offers no significant environmental benefits. In 1999, the National Academy of Sciences reported that when ethanol is blended with gasoline, it does not significantly reduce pollution and may even increase the pollutants that cause smog.
Still, many small farmers are convinced that soaring demand for ethanol will help lift depressed corn prices. Lawmakers from farm states say the tax incentives that are encouraging the boom in ethanol production, a figure that approaches $1 billion a year, could help prop up a flagging farm economy.
"We have an obligation to help agriculture get on its feet," said Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, which is a major producer of corn and ethanol. "There have always been enough tax benefits to go around for virtually everybody. That's the way the system works to promote the economy."
In the wake of the California decision, farmers and big agricultural companies are scrambling to build new ethanol plants in the Midwest and Plains states.
But, according to many economists and agricultural experts, the bulk of the profits generated from ethanol go to agriculture processors like the Archer Daniels Midland Company, which is turning greater volumes of low-priced corn into a high-priced fuel.
A.D.M., Cargill Inc. and other processors benefit from federal tax incentives, worth 53 cents for each gallon of ethanol, that encourage gasoline refiners to create a blend containing about 10 percent ethanol. Because of that subsidy, which has cost about $10 billion since the program began in 1979, ethanol consumption is expected to approach two billion gallons this year.
A.D.M., the nation's largest producer of ethanol, with about 50 percent of the market, has seen its earnings from ethanol surge over the last year as gasoline and ethanol prices have jumped. Over the last two decades, ethanol has yielded the company profits of about $1 billion, according to Prudential Securities.
If prices remain stable, Wall Street analysts say, the company could earn $200 million on about $1 billion in ethanol sales in the fiscal year that began last month. A.D.M. is a major campaign contributor to both parties.
Larry H. Cunningham, an A.D.M. spokesman, said that ethanol's advantages are broad. "There are several parties that have benefited -- the corn farmer, the processor, the refiner and the consumer," he said. Unlike M.T.B.E., another additive to make fuel cleaner that is formally known as methyl tertiary butyl ether, ethanol poses no threat of water contamination, he added.
The benefits to small farmers are difficult to gauge. Because corn prices are so depressed, farmers have gained the most from the government support program that guarantees them $1.89 a bushel. Only if corn prices went higher would added demand from ethanol make a difference to them, but the price of corn has not reached $1.89 since 1998.
As a result, some farmer cooperatives are building ethanol plants in the hopes of reaping greater rewards by acting as processors, not simply corn growers. "We want to move further up the value chain to make more money," said David Kolsrud, a corn farmer who invested in an ethanol plant in Luverne, Minn. "This is a hedge against low corn prices."
Critics say the government is creating a market that would not otherwise exist. "The highest and best use of corn is not to artificially make it into ethanol," said former Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican and an ethanol opponent.
But Senator Daschle says that for struggling farmers, every penny from producing corn counts. "Producers get the crumbs," he said. "But these crumbs are very important."
Farmers' investments in ethanol plants, through their cooperatives, could raise their returns and enhance ethanol's political stature. "It would be politically very difficult to remove the ethanol subsidy because there are a lot of co-ops out there," said Wallace E. Tyner, an agricultural economist at Purdue University. "Everybody who's building a plant today is assuming the subsidy will go on forever, or at least for 20 years."
In Washington, ethanol's clout only grows. In persuading Mr. Bush to force California to use ethanol, the ethanol industry countered the powerful oil lobby and California's considerable political influence. California had asked to be exempted from having to use ethanol after it banned M.T.B.E. because it leaks from storage tanks and pollutes groundwater.
Administration officials said that politics played no role in their decision. "To suggest that the administration has the ability to waive off the Clean Air Act is not found in the law," said Dan Bartlett, an aide to President Bush.
New York, which is also phasing out M.T.B.E., may wind up having to use more ethanol as well in a few years. The state is considering whether to apply for a waiver from the Clean Air Act, as California did.
One of the most ambitious measures for raising ethanol demand is sponsored by Senators Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and Tim Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota. The bill would require a rising percentage of the nation's fuel to come from renewable resources, which, its backers say, would increase ethanol output as much as 10 times by 2016.
Chief among ethanol's backers are lawmakers who represent farmers. In the Midwest, attacking ethanol is political suicide. Many farmers live in states that swing between parties. Iowa is also the home of the nation's earliest presidential caucus.
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and until recently chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, got to know Mr. Bush during the last election season. In January 2000, he and Mr. Bush took a five-day car trip across Iowa, and Mr. Grassley said he discussed ethanol with Mr. Bush several times.
This year, Mr. Grassley, who repeatedly met with Mr. Bush about the tax-cut bill, said he veered off whenever he could into ethanol and the California case.
On May 16, Mr. Bush called Mr. Grassley to thank him for his pivotal work on the tax cut. "I want to tell you something," Mr. Bush continued, as Mr. Grassley recalls. "I don't know when we are going to announce it or how, but I don't want you to worry about ethanol."
Democrats like Senator Nelson, a moderate whose support for the tax cut Mr. Bush heavily courted, also made themselves heard. Just a few days before the California decision. Mr. Nelson was aboard Air Force One with Mr. Bush. "I made it clear that this would be very helpful to agriculture," Mr. Nelson said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corn to be processed into ethanol being unloaded earlier this year at the farmer-owned Sunrise Energy Cooperative in Blairstown, Iowa. (Associated Press)(pg. A14) Chart: "Taking Root"The use of corn to produce ethanol has grown fairly steadily since federal subsidies began more than 20 years ago. Ethanol producers' exemptions from the gasoline tax are approaching $1 billion annually. Graph showing the amount of bushels of corn used to make ethanol. Graph showing the percentage total of corn used in ethanol. Graph comparing the subsidies for ethanol.* *1987-95 figures based on I.R.S. data, figures from 1996-2001 are Treasury Department estimates (Source: National Agricultural Statistics Service and Economic Research Service, U.S.D.A.)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (96%); BIOFUELS (95%); ALCOHOLS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); FUEL TAX (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CLIMATOLOGY (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (62%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%) ALCOHOL; ETHANOL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AGRICULTURE; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; AIR POLLUTION; GRAIN 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



589 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: A Faded Resort Lumbers to Life; 
Grass-Roots Tourism Revival in a Mineral-Spring Retreat

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

DATELINE: SHARON SPRINGS, N.Y. 

 BODY:
For the old-timers in this historic mineral-spring village, it was more than a little startling when the white elephant came back to life.
 The rebirth, two months ago, of the stately white-clapboard American Hotel on Main Street has been the most visible symbol of the comeback of this legendary but depopulated Brigadoon of gingerbready, abandoned Victorian resort hotels. Rooms were being rented at the American for the first time in five decades. 
 "What a great breath of fresh air," said Sally Lauzon, a science teacher at Sharon Springs Central School, gesturing toward the hotel on a recent afternoon. She lives on Main Street up the hill from the American, and was taking her 3-week-old son, Alexander Carl, on a little jaunt. "When we moved in here 18 years ago, most of the houses on Main Street were uninhabitable." 
The town "has literally come back from the dead," said State Senator James L. Seward, who represents Sharon Springs and vividly remembers the days when not a living soul stirred on Main Street. 
Indeed, Sharon Springs, near Cooperstown, "was a poster child for rural decline, so the signs of its recovery are especially heartening," said Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society of New York, who has spent every summer near the village since boyhood. 
When The New York Times visited the village last year, the wisp of revival had become a full-fledged restoration, but skeptics wondered whether the efforts could truly achieve critical mass. At the start, not a penny of government money spurred the renaissance. No Albany bureaucrat stuck a pin in a map and declared Sharon Springs the lucky winner. No wealthy patrons distributed largess. 
What had happened here was thoroughly local, and mostly uncoordinated. "I suppose we were defying the laws of gravity," said Maureen Lodes, president of the Sharon Springs Chamber of Commerce. In 1997, when she and her business partner, Kathy Spofford, opened up Cobbler & Company, a quirky collectibles emporium on Main Street, "everyone thought we were lunatics," she said. "People asked, 'Who will go there?' But now, it's all starting to snowball." 
Maybe, but after a very long freeze. These days the village has a year-round population of 550, but it once drew 10,000 resort visitors during the summer. Originally a 19th-century playground of the Vanderbilts and Roosevelts, who were drawn to the benefits of the famous mineral-rich waters, it was later spurned by the fickle rich for Saratoga Springs. When pillars of the wealthy Jewish elite suffered disrespect there, they appropriated Sharon Springs and its elaborate Greek Revival water temples as their own. 
Sharon Springs was still a refuge for spa devotees through the 1940's and into the 1950's. Former Mayor Edward I. Koch of New York worked as a 22-year-old busboy there in 1946. But in the 1960's, Sharon Springs succumbed to those notorious mass executioners of so many upstate retreats: the turnpike motel and the cheap jet fare. During subsequent, somnolent decades, the village imploded into a resort mirage, a place of abandoned, moldering wood-frame mansions, sagging porches and collapsing roofs. 
Though local reanimation efforts were sometimes tried, it was not until the late 1980's that Ms. Spofford's family opened Clausen Farms, an 11-room bed-and-breakfast on Route 20. A few years later, Doug Plummer and Garth Roberts moved up from New York City to establish the Rockville Cafe and Bakery on Main Street, which became not only the hangout for townies, farmers and new residents, but also an incubator for resurrection. 
To their astonishment, the cafe partners found themselves buying the 26-room American Hotel, built in 1847, for $18,000 in 1996 just to keep it from disintegrating. Then they wound up spending more than $400,000 in savings and loans during the next five years to prop it up, clean it out and bring it back. In June, the American Hotel began renting nine of its rooms, after having opened its 65-seat restaurant in May. Naturally, the village breakfast spot has migrated from the Rockville, now closed, to the 25-seat pub at the hotel. 
The busy hotel "makes a tremendous statement there on Main Street," Senator Seward said. "We spoke very bravely that all this was going to happen, and it's exciting to see that it is actually happening. I can see so much difference between last summer and this summer." 
And to the delight of Mr. Plummer and Mr. Roberts, the new hotel has suddenly benefited from a staple of the old hotel: the walk-in. How better to describe Winnie and Ken Caswell, from New Castle, N.H.?
"We've been driving through the area and were charmed by the hotel," Mrs. Caswell said as they entered the lobby. "We thought, why not spend the night?" 
Down the hill on Main Street, Dawne Belloise and her partner, Dennis Giacomo, have spent five years restoring the town's most imposing ruined grande dame, the 160-year-old, 130-room, four-story Roseboro Hotel. They bought the structure for $20,000 in 1996, defying all rational explanation, as they put it; they have found themselves spending $250,000 on the restoration so far. 
The Roseboro's 90-seat restaurant, with its oak floors and saffron curtains, opened on July 13, and patrons were offered a new-American menu under the dining room's woven bamboo-blade fans and $3,000 Roman-inspired chandeliers. In September, Ms. Belloise and Mr. Giacomo plan to open five new Main Street storefronts on the Roseboro's 75-foot-long front-porch extension, which was until recently a sagging protuberance requiring extensive reconstruction. 
Over the last couple of years, more and more tourists have been seeking out the town's shabby chic. Thanks to the resuscitation efforts, visiting shoppers can work their way down the hill now past the Sharon Springs Village Hall and Free Library to Cobbler & Company, a 13-room, two-story gift-shop menagerie where the walls and halls have already been signed by a thousand visitors from 40 states and 30 countries.
After perusing the American Hotel opposite Main Street, they might encounter Finishing Touch, an apparel and home-decor shop, and then Gino's Italian Restaurant and Pizzeria, where the mozzarella is fresh and the pizza dough is whirled by Cipriano Loviglio, a pieman from Bari, Italy.
Pausing further to observe the restoration of the Roseboro, shoppers might then browse the Sharon Springs Emporium, an eclectic consignment and antiques store, and wander into the Sharon Historical Society. Just down the street, the Imperial Baths, the 73-year-old white-sulfur mineral baths, are still open to the public every day except Saturday. Massage is an option. 
Main Street is also punctuated by lively historic markers recalling the mineral-spring past, all of it referenced on the village's elaborate Internet site, www.sharonsprings.com, created by Ms. Belloise, a Web designer.
The growing hubbub contrasts with the realities of a decade ago, "when most of Main Street was condemned and the place seemed totally eerie," said Ms. Belloise, who moved here in 1990, charmed by the crumbling five-block main drag and its possibility for renewal. 
"This transformation was not ordered from on high," Mr. Barwick said, "it was a grass-roots effort by young, optimistic people who weren't scared away by the terrible decline that had occurred there." 
In the village, there is "real momentum now," Senator Seward said. 
But can so much promising activity be equated with unstoppable progress? Town veterans fret that the Sharon Springs revival "is still tentative," said Ms. Lauzon, the science teacher. "In the end, I think we'll have to work together as a village to keep all this going." 
But Mr. Barwick said Sharon Springs had not been affected by recent economic problems "because there was no room for a further downturn," he said. "Sharon Springs had nowhere to go but up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The American Hotel reopened recently in Sharon Springs, N.Y. Below, its owners, Doug Plummer, left, and Garth Roberts.; Last year, the American Hotel was still crumbling, left. The restored room at right is one of nine that opened in June. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) Map of New York highlighting Shanon Springs: Sharon Springs was still a refuge for spa devotees until the 1960's. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (71%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HOTELS AND MOTELS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOTEL (SHARON SPRINGS, NY) 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) SHARON SPRINGS (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



590 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Nations Wrangle in an All-Night Marathon on Climate Treaty 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: BONN, Monday, July 23 

 BODY:
Early this morning, as 1,700 diplomats wrangled over final details of a long-embattled climate treaty, environmental campaigners went through a familiar drill. 
 "We've already written two statements," said David Doniger, the climate policy director for the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
 Depending on what happened sometime near dawn in the smoke-hazed halls of the Maritim Hotel, they would hand out what they viewed as news of a landmark environmental achievement or a disaster. 
For the second time in eight months, the fate of the Kyoto Protocol, the first treaty to require cuts in gases linked to global warming, came down to a marathon all-night session as countries sought to ensure that the agreement to protect the atmosphere did not harm their economies or other interests. 
The United States remained deeply immersed in the talks, but was on strict orders from the White House not to interfere with other countries' efforts to reach a consensus, even though President Bush rejected the treaty as "fatally flawed."
Dozens of lobbyists for businesses that saw the treaty as either an opportunity or a threat -- ranging from coal companies to sellers of solar power -- also girded for the outcome this morning.
The protocol would build on an existing climate treaty, signed by Mr. Bush's father in 1992, that called only for voluntary measures to reduce emissions. In subsequent years, emissions steadily climbed.
The last session on the Kyoto pact, in The Hague in November, collapsed after the United States and Europe clashed over whether countries should get credit toward emissions goals by planting forests, which absorb carbon dioxide, the dominant greenhouse gas.
Now, with the United States mainly watching, the pressure has been on Europe and Japan to find a way to resolve any remaining impasses. 
European leaders, facing strong public concern about the issue, had been pushing for a deal in time to ratify the pact by next year, the 10th anniversary of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, where climate change first became a global issue.
Japan faced a quandary. It had much face to lose, having been host to the pivotal session in 1997 in the ancient city that gave the protocol its name. But with the United States out of the pact, Japan also now had great leverage in the talks. 
And only with the support of Japan could Europe guarantee, under the complex architecture of the treaty, that the agreement would take effect. 
Late Saturday night, Jan Pronk of the Netherlands, the chairman of the talks, issued a 15-page list of compromises on disputed sections. 
Through Sunday the odds shifted hour by hour, with each side in the greenhouse gas debate spinning every gleaned fact in the direction of either hopeful or doubtful. 
An industry lobbyist who had spent a decade fighting against binding limits on greenhouse gases at climate talks said he was confident that the process would break down. 
"It's too big a load of issues to do it as one package and I'd be surprised if they're going to be able to get anything significant as a partial package," he said.
Early this morning, Mr. Pronk played a high-stakes hand, calling a meeting of all the participating countries. He flatly rejected proposals to achieve formal agreement on everything that had been worked out so far. 
One of the press releases already written by Mr. Doniger's group had predicted this possible outcome, saying it was a good beginning.
But Mr. Pronk said there would be no partial victory. "I want to have full agreement," he said to the delegations. "You've committed yourselves not to fail twice."
The closed-circuit televisions were shut down, clusters of dark-suited diplomats coursed like corpuscles through the hallways and night moved toward day as the work continued.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the site of climate treaty talks in Bonn yesterday, a woman read names on a wooden ark built by protesters. (Andrew C. Revkin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); COAL INDUSTRY (51%); SOLAR ENERGY (51%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%) EARTH (79%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (86%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



591 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: The Roots of Conflict In Jamaica 

BYLINE:  By Orlando Patterson; Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard, was special adviser for social policy and development to Prime Minister Michael Manley of Jamaica from 1972 to 1980.

DATELINE: OCHO RIOS, Jamaica 

 BODY:
During the spasm of violence in Jamaica earlier this month, my wife and I spent a quiet afternoon on the veranda at the home of my 84-year old mother, in a part of Kingston less than three miles from the center of the conflict that, over four days, left more than 25 people dead. We felt about as safe as we would anywhere in New York or Boston.
 Jamaica is a 144-mile mountain range jutting out of the Caribbean. The capital city of Kingston and the homes of most of the country's 2.5 million inhabitants are on the southern coast. Nearly all the hotels worth visiting are located a huge mountain and a social world away, on the northern coast. Jamaica does have a higher level of crime and violence than most other nations, but the violence is largely confined to particular urban neighborhoods in the southern part of the island. And the recent clash between police and politically motivated gangsters was restricted to one small section of the western urban slums of Kingston. 
 What is really going on here?
Jamaica is a test case of all that's best and worst about democratic regimes in less developed countries. It shares with most of the other Caribbean islands of the British Commonwealth a deeply rooted commitment to personal freedom and democratic governance. Voter participation rates here put the United States to shame. What's more, unlike Japan and many other modern democracies, Jamaica has repeatedly passed the ultimate test of any thoroughly institutionalized democracy: it has had several changes of government since independence in 1962, the two dominant parties each having ruled and been thrown out of office by the voters about the same number of times. Supporting this democracy are a free and vigilant press, a sophisticated tradition of social and political discourse, and a vibrant civil society. The country also has a complex and highly developed popular culture and intellectual tradition. That's the good news.
The bad news is that Jamaica's attempts at economic development have largely failed. Here, as in Puerto Rico and most other Caribbean islands, post-independence attempts at industrialization have fallen apart. Jamaica now has vast shantytowns; unemployment at depression levels; and high rates of economic inequality, crime and drug abuse. The government has met many conditions imposed by the International Monetary Fund in return for much-needed loans: a stable annual inflation rate of 5.8 percent, falling interest rates, adequate international reserves and the return of positive growth. But at the same time, public debt is nearly 160 percent of the gross domestic product and interest consumes more than half of all government expenditure, leaving little to address the social problems.
External migration and a thriving informal economy have been safety valves of the system. Between a quarter and a third of all Jamaicans live abroad, most in the United States. Secretary of State Colin Powell, a second-generation Jamaican-American, is the most visible symbol of Jamaicans' achievements in America. Even Jamaicans who have become American citizens tend to maintain strong ties with the island, making Jamaica in effect a transnational society. And the money they send home ranks second only to tourism in contributing to the economy's net foreign earnings. This half explains the large villas sprouting all over the countryside in spite of years of negative economic growth.
The other half of the explanation is in the darker side of the informal economy: the drug trade. Marijuana has traditionally been used in Jamaica, but more sinister, the island is increasingly used as a transshipment center by Colombian dealers feeding America's insatiable demand for narcotics. And as in America and other parts of the world, guns and turf wars follow the illicit drug trade. The dons and drug gangs of the slums are often more heavily armed than the security forces waging losing battles to control them. The police have increasingly resorted to illegal tactics that violate the rights not only of the criminal elements but of innocent residents trapped in the neighborhoods where the criminals operate.
Jamaica's parliamentary democracy, on the British model, interacts badly with this turbulent socioeconomic mix. A politician's political survival depends entirely on his or her ability to win repeatedly at the local level. One sure method of ensuring repeated victory is to create what is called a garrison constituency: a pocket of housing erected with public funds, with carefully screened residents who will constitute the unbeatable core of the politician's voters.
These began with Edward Seaga, now the leader of the Jamaica Labor Party, when he was in office during the 1960's and 80's. The leading politicians of the other main party soon followed his lead. There are now about 15 hard-core garrison constituencies, and political fights between them during elections have spilled over into broader, ongoing turf wars. The resulting gangs, initially formed for political purposes, now also serve the drug trade. During the 80's, many of these gangs migrated to America, where they became known as posses and soon forged a reputation for violence.
These gangs have increasingly worked to generate unrest as a political tactic. This may have been a cause of the recent violence, which was as much a police riot as a counterattack by political thugs against police. The violence took place in garrison constituencies loyal to the opposition party, and many commentators here see it as an attempt by the opposition to pressure the government to call an early election (the next scheduled election is not until next year). 
Last week Prime Minister P. J. Patterson, leader of the People's National Party, ordered a commission of inquiry to determine the causes of the recent violence and propose steps to fight criminality. Mr. Seaga had called for such a commission.
Today Jamaica, like the few other genuine democracies in the third world, is attempting to do what history has so far found to be impossible: develop a successful capitalist economy after first embracing freedom, allowing a vigorous trade union movement and guaranteeing universal adult suffrage. Economic failure and mass poverty have in no way diminished the nation's passion for freedom.
The United States should recognize its interest in supporting this small struggling nation right at its doorstep -- especially since a healthy, functioning democracy there would be better able to resist the drug trade that harms both countries.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (George Bates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); TRENDS (74%); RIOTS (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CITIES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); INFLATION (64%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%)

PERSON: PATTERSON, ORLANDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); JAMAICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%) JAMAICA (WEST INDIES)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



592 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Reading Putin's Mind

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

 BODY:
I understand how a position can be taken for the purpose of giving it up as a concession. 
 That is why my friend George, whose mental reasoning is very deep, very profound (I must keep saying that), last year said he would unilaterally reduce the American nuclear stockpile. 
 My simple-minded strategists wondered -- if the U.S. was going to cut its missiles from 7,000 to less than half that, why do it without demanding Russia give up something in return? Why take a peaceful action so belligerently?
I knew why. Bush's advisers, who are smarter than mine, wanted to show that it did not matter to them what Russia wanted. They know we cannot afford to maintain our huge missile force. Yeltsin pleaded with Clinton to agree to a lower level of 1,500 missiles in each nation. 
Clinton wanted to make that deal, but his military wouldn't let him go under 2,500. Then along comes Bush to announce publicly he won't negotiate on reductions at all -- that he'll reduce the stockpile to whatever number his military says is all America needs to destroy Russia.
Very shrewd. Bush says he will not negotiate on reducing offensive missiles and links that to his refusal to negotiate on the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. All most consistent; America, with its world primacy, will act unilaterally in its national defense interest against terrorists like Saddam, and he suggests that Russia's reaction to ending ABM restrictions does not count.
But what everybody misses is that by doubly insulting us -- on Start treaty reductions as well as on the ABM treaty -- Bush made possible a grand compromise. While conceding our role in negotiating limits on offensive missiles, he enables me to let him build a limited missile defense.
At our first meeting, he held to his linkage -- the U.S. will decide on both its stockpile reductions and its antimissile development. I reacted sharply by supporting Saddam in the U.N. and by threatening to add five or more nuclear warheads to all our missiles. (Russia cannot afford to redecorate my dacha, but I supposedly have billions to spend on tens of thousands of new warheads.)
At our second meeting, a counter-linkage presents itself "unexpectedly." I agree to renegotiate the old antimissile treaty, which Bush would otherwise abrogate, so I lose nothing. In return Bush will negotiate with Russia the reduction of our mutual missile forces, which we both will do anyway, so he loses nothing.
Rather than going it alone on both, as he originally set forth, we are going it together on both. Weapons of offense and defense will now be discussed as a set. As my profound friend George said yesterday, "the two go hand in hand." 
My face is saved. The American president nods his head as I proclaim that we, one on one, have discussed "the world architecture of the 21st century." Europe is grateful to Russia for forcing the unilateralist American into at least bilateralism. 
We'll both get what we need. In a few years, he will be able to shoot down Saddam's missiles (my scientists were more amazed than the Americans at that successful recent antimissile test), and I'll make much out of squeezing down Start's ceiling to 2,000 missiles. 
And then comes what the Americans call a "sweetener" -- the promise of economic aid and new investment flows. Bush can publicly fret about brutality in Chechnya and my takeover of the Russian media, but I'll still praise his mental profundity when his compatriots call him incompetent. 
Do you suppose this sentimental hegemonist grasps my plan to reassert Russian power? I will adopt China's model: Centralize political control by cracking down on dissent and crushing democratic tendencies. At the same time, develop a controlled capitalism to generate profits that the state can tax to build military strength.
My gamble is in allying Russia with China against the U.S. and Japan. Selling our latest arms to Beijing could create a superpower with 10 times our population on Russia's eastern border. I will run that risk.
That will make a forthcoming meeting with my new friend George all the more piquant. In Shanghai, I will introduce him to my best new friend, Jiang Zemin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TERRORISM (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (76%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



593 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Look Abroad for Patients Paying Retail 

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

 BODY:
Yusuf Akdogan is a coveted customer at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, enjoying many unusual perks during his three-month stay. When Mr. Akdogan arrived from Turkey for a liver transplant, Mount Sinai provided a coordinator who guided him through every medical appointment and escorted his wife to a grocery store to buy him food prepared in accordance with Islamic rules.
 His wife, Hanim Akdogan, has been moved to tears at times by the hospital's care, and she blows kisses to the hospital staff in gratitude. The Akdogans "insisted on taking me out to lunch," said Maviye Celebi, the coordinator who also acts as a translator and is on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the couple. 
 When it comes to foreign patients, New York hospitals, and those in other large cities worldwide, are no longer simply catering to princes and business tycoons. In the last few years, they have begun to battle mightily -- and often, successfully -- for foreigners like Mr. Akdogan, whose government's health care system paid Mount Sinai $300,000 -- almost the entire amount the hospital charges for such a procedure. 
Patients who can pay the full price for services -- known as the "retail rate" -- have become highly desirable. This is because hospitals are being squeezed economically through lower payments from Medicare and other government programs and because health maintenance organizations and other managed-care companies reimburse hospitals at only 50 to 70 percent of the retail rate. While some foreign health care providers, including Turkey in Mr. Akdogan's case, do receive small discounts, they are much less than those requested by H.M.O.'s.
"Clearly the international patients present an attractive revenue source," said Jose Nunez, vice president for international and corporate health at New York Presbyterian Hospital. "It is not that you charge them more, but you charge them your fee for service."
Three years ago, 10 hospitals in and around Philadelphia set up a company, Philadelphia International Medicine, to entice foreign patients by, among other things, creating an international services center to help patients and their families with travel arrangements to the United States and providing interpreters. Last year, the German government began a global campaign to recruit patients from abroad. And Thailand is promoting itself to its Asian neighbors as both a medical and a tourism destination.
Most New York hospitals started tracking foreign patients, and the revenue from them, only in the last three years, so no data is available on long-term trends. Mr. Nunez said that in the last year, New York Presbyterian treated 600 foreign inpatients and 2,000 outpatients, double the number from three years earlier. In 1999, such patients accounted for less than $30 million, or 1 percent of the hospitals' $3 billion in revenue, he estimated.
Despite that revenue, New York Presbyterian posted an operating loss of $11.3 million that year, according to Crain Communications Inc., which tracks the finances of major hospitals around the country. 
Mount Sinai noted a 25 percent to 30 percent increase in the number of foreign patients since 1998, to about 1,000 in the last year, said Ed Muraski, who heads the hospital's international division. They accounted for about $32 million, less than 2 percent of the hospital's $1.6 billion in revenue for 2000. Mount Sinai also registered operating losses -- $5 million -- in 2000, said Martin Arrick, a director at the Standard & Poor's bond-rating agency who specializes in the health care industry.
All New York hospitals that report significant numbers of foreign patients, including Mount Sinai, New York Presbyterian, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Beth Israel Medical Center, say that the majority of them come from the Middle East, Latin America, Turkey and Greece. 
Mr. Arrick said hospitals are also finding that patients from overseas provide a lucrative business on more than one front. "First, most of them pay the full amount that the hospitals charge," he said. "Second, they only come for very expensive, high-tech procedures. Nobody flies to New York for just a few stitches."
At Mount Sinai, foreign patients spend, on average, $30,000, or up to 20 percent more than domestic patients even after taking into account the cost of additional services they receive.
Mr. Nunez's department at New York Presbyterian, established in 1998, has more than 30 employees who do everything from translating complex medical terms for foreign patients to giving advice on shopping and entertainment to family members and friends who accompany them. "We provide them with the kind of concierge service that they would get in a nice hotel," Mr. Nunez said.
He had just returned from Istanbul, where New York Presbyterian held a medical conference on "recent advances in cardiovascular diseases" that received extensive, favorable coverage in the local news media and was attended by 250 Turkish doctors. "We go to showcase our physicians to show they are on the forefront of health care," Mr. Nunez said, adding that relationships with doctors abroad "in many ways leads to opportunities."
Mount Sinai's international office, led by Mr. Muraski, has seven staff members, including five coordinators, each of whom covers a geographical region of the world and speaks its dominant language. Twice a day the coordinators make rounds, checking on their assigned patients. If requested, an international office representative will pick up a foreign patient and his or her family from the airport and even secure Broadway tickets for the family.
Each month the international office staff meets with the heads of Mount Sinai's medical departments and its major physicians to "develop strategies to attract international patients," Mr. Muraski said. It has signed contracts with H.M.O.'s that have offices abroad, including Aetna and Blue Cross and Blue Shield.
The hospital also offers some discounts on its retail rate for some treatments and procedures to countries, like Turkey, that have national health insurance and that send a significant number of patients abroad for sophisticated medical treatment. And it sends its leading doctors on lecture tours abroad to develop relationships with local physicians, who might later refer their own patients to Mount Sinai.
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Akdogan, who received a new liver on June 7, and his wife went to the international office for some help translating a list of foods given to him, in English, by a hospital nutritionist. Ms. Celebi, their Turkish coordinator, explained each high-protein, no-sodium item on the list. "He basically should have a good, balanced diet," she concluded.
Hospitals without formal structures for recruiting foreign patients also realize their importance. Beth Israel Medical Center, for example, encourages its well-known doctors to capitalize on their own reputations, overseas contacts and the Internet.
After their 8-year-old daughter underwent unsuccessful surgery in Britain to remove a benign tumor on her spinal column, Prahlad Bhogaita, a Kenyan business owner, and his wife brought her to Beth Israel because the family had heard about Dr. Fred Epstein, the hospital's prominent pediatric neurosurgeon. 
"Health care in the U.S. is extremely good," said Mr. Bhogaita, whose daughter is recovering well after an operation by Dr. Epstein. "We wouldn't have gone anywhere else if we had known about this doctor earlier." 
Dr. Epstein said about 25 of the 250 patients he treats each year are from abroad, up from 10 to 12 three years ago.
His former students, now practicing around the world, refer difficult cases to him. He gives medical lectures and seminars abroad and has built a strong reputation in many countries, like Korea and Israel. But increasingly, he said, his young patients' families are finding out about him through news articles and the Internet. 
"Many of my patients' parents conduct searches on the Internet and find my articles or articles about me," said Dr. Epstein, who has published about 40 articles in medical journals and for whom Beth Israel has designed a detailed Web page. "Then they find the hospital, call and arrange to come."
Hospitals that court foreign patients are usually very sensitive to their cultural and culinary proclivities. 
When a Greek teenager was losing weight because he disliked American food, Mount Sinai quickly transferred him to a suite with a kitchen so his mother could cook him Greek meals, said the hospital's Greek coordinator, Eleni Katechin.
And fully aware of strong concerns about modesty among Middle Eastern women, New York Presbyterian "never lets a female patient see a male doctor without another female present," Mr. Nunez said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maviye Celebi, right, an international patient coordinator at Mount Sinai Hospital, translates a nutrition guide for Yusuf and Hanim Akdogan. Mr. Akdogan's liver transplant was financed by Turkey's government. (Krista Joy Niles/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (77%); MEDICAL TOURISM (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RELIGION (71%); TRENDS (65%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL-CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER; MOUNT SINAI-NEW YORK UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); GERMANY (79%); THAILAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



594 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Disney Is Said To Be Close To Acquisition Of Fox Family 

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT with ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
In a deal intended to make the Walt Disney Company a stronger force in the lucrative cable programming business, Disney is close to an agreement to buy Fox Family Worldwide from the News Corporation and its partner for $3.2 billion in cash, people close to the deal said yesterday.
 The agreement, which is expected to be announced as early as today, would add a network with 81 million subscribers in the United States, 24 million in Europe and 10 million in Latin America to Disney's cable operations, which include the Disney Channel, Toon Disney, SoapNet and ESPN, along with stakes in Lifetime, A&E and E! Entertainment. Acquisition of the Fox Family channel would strengthen Disney's influence with younger audiences, give it another outlet for its existing programming as well as expand the Disney brand name overseas. 
 Although company executives declined to comment yesterday, people close to the cable services noted that in addition to the savings that could be derived from the deal, Disney had the potential to improve the service's relatively weak ratings among adults 18 to 49 years old. Not only could Disney create new shows for the channel, but it might rerun some of ABC's prime-time shows on the service. 
Still, the deal would be costly for Disney, and other bidders, including Viacom and possibly AOL Time Warner, apparently passed on a deal. In addition to the $3.2 billion in cash that Disney will pay, the company will also assume $2.1 billion in debt as well as a preferred stock that is owned by the Liberty Media Corporation, people close to the talks said.
The sale would be a coup for the News Corporation and its partner, Saban Entertainment, because they would receive far more than the total of $3 billion to $4 billion that was expected. The News Corporation and Saban each own 49.5 percent of Fox Family Worldwide, while Allen & Company, the investment bankers, owns 1 percent.
The deal would strengthen the balance sheet of the News Corporation as its chairman, Rupert Murdoch, negotiates to buy Hughes Electronics, which runs the satellite service DirecTV, from General Motors. More important, the company does not need to buy the half of Fox Family it does not own. Last year, Haim Saban, who owns Saban Entertainment, exercised an option to sell his stake to the News Corporation. 
Mr. Saban, whose greatest success with the channel was the "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers," was never able to make the channel a brand name like Disney's or Viacom's Nickelodeon. But what it did have, as one person close to Disney put it, was "terrific real estate," he said. "It is like buying beach-front property in the Hamptons," he added, alluding to the wide distribution of the service here and abroad.
At least two Disney institutional investors, who spoke on the condition of anonymity yesterday because they had not seen the terms of the deal, said they liked it in principle. One noted that Disney was sticking with a business, programming, that is its core competence, and another said that he was not overly concerned that Disney was paying a high price because the deal provided the company with a strategic asset that it had an expertise in managing.
He added that Disney would be acquiring a widely distributed basic cable channel that would give the company an outlet for its own films and TV shows, ensuring that it would not have to sell them to rivals like AOL Time Warner's Turner Network Television, where it might not receive top dollar.
Still, Disney argued similarly when it acquired Capital Cities/ABC in 1996 that the broadcast network would give it distribution for existing programming, and that ability has not always benefited either the film division or the network. Over all, Disney has had some tough years. Since 1997, the company's revenue has grown only 13 percent, and profits have declined to $920 million from $1.97 billion in 1997. And one analyst who spoke on the condition of anonymity added that Disney would have had more flexibility if it had bought the business for stock, rather than tying up cash. However, several people close to the deal said that the News Corporation insisted on cash and wanted at least $5 billion.
Fox Family Worldwide is expected to generate about $150 million this year in cash flow, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That translates into a purchase price of about 35 times cash flow, which analysts said yesterday was extremely high. And Wall Street may worry that the high price will dilute Disney's earnings by about 5 percent, at least for the first year, analysts estimated yesterday. It would require virtually all of the cash flow from the channel to pay off the interest on the $2.1 billion in debt, even at Disney's relatively low borrowing rate of about 6 percent. People close to the transaction said that Disney could probably wring about $50 million in savings out of the company, once it was merged with Disney's channels, but that would still mean Disney had paid a multiple of 26 times cash flow.
A lot is riding on Disney's success in managing this acquisition. Not only must it improve ratings, but it has to raise advertising revenue significantly in a weak economy. While all the media stocks have been badly hit with the weakness in advertiser spending, Disney's shares have fared particularly badly, closing on Friday at $27, near a 52-week low.
The deal is likely to quell some Disney critics who have watched the media industry consolidate and worried that Disney was not moving aggressively enough to compete against rivals like the News Corporation and AOL Time Warner. 
Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of Disney, has said that he feels himself under pressure to expand the company. In a recent interview, he acknowledged that his strategy of not making major purchases to acquire distribution businesses like cable or satellite had come under fire but that Disney was a company that creates content, and that is what its expertise has always been.
The Fox Family purchase does add some distribution capability, but some media experts were surprised that Mr. Eisner, who has been a cautious spender, was suddenly making a purchase with such a high premium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); REAL ESTATE (71%); PREFERRED STOCK (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (61%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); NEWS CORP (95%); AOL INC (67%); LIBERTY MEDIA CORP (66%); LIBERTY INTERACTIVE CORP (66%); ALLEN & CO INC (64%); E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (57%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (57%); VIACOM INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; FOX BROADCASTING CO; NEWS CORP; SABAN ENTERTAINMENT; LIBERTY MEDIA CORP; VIACOM INC; AOL TIME WARNER 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%); AOL (NYSE) (67%); LMCA (NASDAQ) (66%); LINTA (NASDAQ) (66%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (66%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (66%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%) FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (72%) EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



595 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: GENOA SUMMIT MEETING: THE POLITICAL AFTERMATH; 
Italy's Prime Minister Steps Out of the Summit Meeting and Into a Firestorm

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 22 

 BODY:
After three days of compliments from his guests at the protest-besieged Genoa summit meeting, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was heckled as soon as he set foot beyond the 13-foot-high metal and concrete walls encircling the world leaders.
 A 23-year-old man was shot by a police officer while fighting in a frenzied protest riot on Friday, the first time anyone has died in demonstrations against globalization since the movement surfaced in Seattle in 1999. But the rage Mr. Berlusconi sampled mostly stemmed from a police raid early this morning at the headquarters of the protest's coordinators, Genoa Social Forum, a raid that that group's spokesman described as a "massacre." 
 Italian television today over and over showed scenes of stunned, bloodied protesters being taken out of their building on stretchers, as well as panning shots of corridors splattered with glass shards and smears of blood.
President Bush, who traveled from Genoa today to Rome to meet the Pope and make an official visit to the Italian government, left town relieved. Strolling through the capital's ancient forum on the eve of a meeting with the pope, he described Rome this evening as a "very romantic city" and seemed to have quickly put the traumas and tensions of the summit meeting behind him.
His host's woes may be just beginning. Mr. Berlusconi, a conservative media baron who was elected last May and who today twice reminded reporters that it was his center-left predecessor, not his own government, that organized the security and law enforcement arrangements, returns to Rome tonight to face the first crisis of his center-right government. His first government in 1994 fell after only seven months, brought down by labor protests and corruption charges.
The confident business leader had hoped to come off as a master of ceremonies who coaxed his colleagues into producing concrete assistance to the developing world, but instead is facing the kind of criticism over police brutality that greeted Mayor Richard Daley after the Chicago Democratic Convention in 1968.
The protester who was shot, Carlo Giuliani, was photographed at the moment of death, in pictures that showed other rioters attacking a police jeep and Mr. Giuliani, hurling a fire extinguisher at the officer, who says he fired back in self-defense.
The protester's father, Giuliano Giuliani, said that he pitied the 20-year-old police officer and blamed those who put the inexperienced policeman in that situation. The officer, who was hospitalized, is under investigation for possible manslaughter charges; in Italy, such inquiries are automatic in the circumstances. The government called up close to 20,000 police officers to keep the peace in Genoa, from all branches of law enforcement. Many, like the officer who shot Mr. Giuliani, a Calabrian, were out-of-towners, with limited experience in riots or crowd control.
In this morning's raid, protest organizers said the police stormed their headquarters and a nearby school where dozens of nonviolent demonstrators were camped out, trashing equipment and beating unarmed activists. The police arrested 92 people, including three Americans, and at least 60 were treated in emergency rooms. Today, blood stains and tangled debris in the school building were left untouched as evidence.
The police said today that they had carried out the raid after receiving a tip that some members of the Black Bloc -- anarchists who broke windows, burned cars and battled riot police -- were holed up there. In a news conference, law enforcement officials displayed two gasoline bombs, sledgehammers, a pickax, jackknives, black woolen balaclavas and a dozen gas masks that they said had been collected in the raid. They also confiscated rubber gloves, maps, cell phones and cameras.
Pope John Paul II, who has frequently asked the leaders of the Group of 8 to do more for the world's poor, today deplored the violence in Genoa, saying he felt "sadness and pain" over the "hostility" that exploded in that northern port city.
The mayor of Genoa estimated that the cost of the damage would run into the tens of millions of dollars. When Mr. Berlusconi stepped out of his limousine to pay him a post-meeting visit, a small group of leftists shouted down from upper windows, "shame on you." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RIOTS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); FIRES (84%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DEATHS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); MAYORS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); MANSLAUGHTER (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); TRENDS (63%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: GENOA SOCIAL FORUM (ORGN) 

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) BERLUSCONI, SILVIO (PRIME MIN); GIULIANI, CARLO 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



596 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush's Genoa Diplomacy 

 BODY:
President Bush spent a busy weekend meeting with seven other world leaders in Genoa, Italy, with mixed results. His session with President Vladimir Putin of Russia brought a promising agreement to coordinate discussions on reducing offensive nuclear weapons and building a limited missile defense. But Mr. Bush's stubborn resistance to international plans to reduce global warming further isolated the United States from most of its leading allies. 
 The plan for broad arms talks with Russia, to be fleshed out this week in Moscow by the White House national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, is consistent with Mr. Bush's idea of shifting nuclear thinking to a new, post-cold-war framework. But it marks a welcome step away from his administration's earlier view that Washington might simply proceed with its own plans on offensive and defensive weapons and let Moscow react as it wished. 
 Missile defenses have not yet been proven technologically feasible. Should that happen, building them without amending or replacing the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty would face fierce opposition from European allies and Congressional Democrats and could set off a new arms race with Russia and China, undermining America's security rather than strengthening it. Linking discussions on offensive and defensive weapons makes sense. Russia, with its economy strained and its existing missile force increasingly difficult to maintain, has long favored deep offensive cuts. Mr. Bush also wants sharp reductions in America's nuclear arsenal. Agreement on cutting warheads might win Russian assent to modify the ABM treaty to permit development of a limited missile shield. 
On global warming, yesterday's joint communique fudged over the issue in the absence of a clear consensus. European leaders, including Mr. Putin, reaffirmed their intentions of abiding by the Kyoto Protocol. But Washington refuses to join them, citing the potential drag on future American economic growth. That is shortsighted. At the Genoa meetings, France's president, Jacques Chirac, and Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, were clearly frustrated by Mr. Bush's unreasonable withdrawal from the Kyoto agreement and his vague promises about producing new American proposals. 
Genoa also produced new commitments to address the economic and health problems of poorer nations, including an initial $1.3 billion contribution to a worldwide fund to combat H.I.V./AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The leaders endorsed expanded debt relief and reduced barriers to imports from developing countries and backed a new global round of trade liberalization talks. The attention to environmental issues and poverty reflected the concerns of many of those who demonstrated peacefully in Genoa. Most protesters were nonviolent. But the deliberate provocations of a small number of anarchists and the harsh reaction of Italian security forces brought tragedy, leaving more than 100 seriously injured and one demonstrator shot dead. 
In planning future meetings, Mr. Bush and his fellow leaders need to steer a course between isolated, bunkerlike gatherings in remote areas and meetings in congested cities like Genoa that lend themselves to violent street demonstrations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); COLD WAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ARMS RACE (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); MALARIA (64%); TUBERCULOSIS (60%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; EDITORIALS; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); ITALY (91%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (75%) RUSSIA; GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



597 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Mexican Immigration 

 BODY:
The evolving partnership between George W. Bush and Vicente Fox, the president of Mexico, makes this a favorable moment for both countries to revisit the difficult immigration and border issues that have long vexed relations between the United States and Mexico. Indeed, Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox are working on an ambitious set of proposals that they hope to unveil during Mr. Fox's visit to Washington in September. On the American side, the package under consideration includes legalizing the status of some three million undocumented Mexican workers here and embracing a more ambitious temporary-worker program for future migrants.
 In the past, this page has opposed the idea of a new amnesty for Mexicans who have immigrated illegally to the United States in recent years. We expressed concern that legalizing their status would undermine the integrity of the country's immigration laws, which were reformed in 1986, and depress the wages of the lowest-paid native-born workers. We now believe that growing interdependence of the American and Mexican economies and the installation of a reform government in Mexico permit the adoption of new border policies, including a limited form of amnesty. If properly designed, these changes could sharply reduce illegal immigration and would present no threat to the economic welfare of native-born workers. 
 The American economy relies heavily on the three million undocumented Mexican workers already here and the 150,000 new arrivals who cross the border illegally each year. They help pick America's harvests and do other types of arduous but essential work for which local labor supplies are inadequate. The Mexicans, in turn, send an estimated $8 billion a year back home to Mexico, an important boost to the Mexican economy.
Past border initiatives have foundered because of lack of cooperation from the Mexican government, long under the control of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. Mr. Fox's election last year shattered the PRI monopoly on the presidency, and his government offers the realistic hope of a new partnership on migratory policy. President Fox is willing to work with Washington to crack down on criminal smuggling bands and otherwise enhance security along the border. 
Under the 1986 reform law, several million illegal immigrants who entered the country before 1982 and had lived here continuously since then were granted legal status. Illegal aliens who had done at least 90 days of farm work from mid-1985 to mid-1986 were also covered by the amnesty. A different approach seems warranted today. Undocumented Mexican workers currently in the United States should be given temporary worker status, which would allow them to remain in the country legally. Over time, those who qualify by length of residency and employment history could apply to become permanent residents. Eventually, they could apply for full citizenship. This phased approach would funnel migration that is of benefit to both countries into legal channels, instead of criminalizing it. Concurrently, Washington would expand the number of temporary-worker visas available to Mexicans who want to cross the border legally. That would help discourage illegal immigration.
President Bush must ensure that any new temporary-worker program contains strong workers' rights provisions. Even temporary agricultural workers should get a decent wage, have the right to organize and not be bound to one employer.
Granting temporary visa holders meaningful rights is also important to low-skilled American workers. This is one reason labor unions have reversed their past opposition to legalizing the status of undocumented workers. They no longer worry about illegal immigrants displacing American-born job seekers as much as they worry that Mexican workers here will drive down wages for all low-skilled workers. It is in no one's interest that undocumented workers, assuming most are here to stay, be relegated to an underground economy. 
The deal being negotiated with Mexico must be as concerned with managing realistic levels of future migration as it is with the status of people already in this country. This entails not only an expanded temporary-worker program but also raising the quota on other visas available to Mexicans, such as for relatives, to more realistic levels. America's economy is becoming more closely linked with that of its southern neighbor. Its immigration policies should reflect that fact. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); AMNESTY (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PARDONS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN LABOR; AMNESTIES AND PARDONS; LABOR 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



598 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: GENOA SUMMIT MEETING: THE OVERVIEW; 
BUSH AND PUTIN TIE ANTIMISSILE TALKS TO BIG ARMS CUTS

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: GENOA, Italy, July 22 

 BODY:
President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia agreed today to link discussions of American plans to deploy a missile defense system with the prospect of large cuts in both nuclear arsenals. If an accord was reached quickly, it might take the place of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty.
 Mr. Putin's willingness to enter into simultaneous talks on both offensive and defensive weapons, which American officials said was a surprise, was greeted enthusiastically by Mr. Bush. He had proposed both the offensive and defensive changes during his presidential campaign. 
 "I believe that we will come up with an accord," Mr. Bush, looking almost ebullient, said at a news conference this afternoon, after the two leaders met for two hours in a 15th-century palace and after the Group of 8 summit meeting closed. 
When Mr. Putin was asked what would happen if the United States went ahead with tests that violated the ABM treaty, his answer seemed starkly different from the stand he took last month in Moscow, when he had warned that any violation could touch off a renewed arms race.
"If, as we understood from each other today, we are ready to look at the issue of offensive and defensive systems together as a set, we might not ever need to look at that option," Mr. Putin said. Excerpts, Page A8. 
For all the smiles and warm embraces today between Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin, who met for the first time last month in Slovenia, all that was agreed upon today was to start a series of intensive "consultations." Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser and a Russia expert, said tonight that the consultations -- which she carefully did not refer to as negotiations -- would take place on "an aggressive schedule," which she would work out on a visit to Moscow this week. 
But in the past, Ms. Rice has expressed considerable skepticism about the arms control process that dragged on through the cold war, and she has made clear in recent days that she is not looking to replace the ABM treaty with another formal treaty, subject to Senate approval. "What we are not interested in doing is replicating the old arms control process where it takes 15 years to come to an agreement," she said tonight. 
Speaking to a small group of reporters, she also sounded more cautious than did her boss. Whether the talks succeed or fail, she said, at some point Mr. Bush will "need to move forward at an appropriate time" on missile defense tests that violate the ABM treaty's restrictions. The deputy secretary of defense, Paul D. Wolfowitz, told Congress recently that such time should be measured in months, not years.
For Mr. Putin, the politics of the talks are complex, and one of the outstanding questions is whether he is really willing to give up the ABM treaty or whether he is simply testing Mr. Bush's bottom line. But he does stand to gain from a cut in offensive weapons. 
The United States now has about 7,000 strategic weapons; under Start II, the treaty to reduce strategic arms, the figure is supposed to fall to between 3,000 and 3,500. In 1997, Presidents Clinton and Boris N. Yeltsin agreed in principle that those numbers could fall to 2,500 or below. Mr. Putin talks of 1,500; Mr. Bush has never specified a number. 
In a brief statement, the two presidents did not state their intentions for the ABM treaty, nor did they address how or in what order the two issues would be taken up. 
The upbeat meeting with Mr. Putin today redeemed for Mr. Bush a summit meeting in this ancient port city that, until late today, had the makings of a fiasco. 
The three-day session was so overshadowed by violent anti-globalization demonstrations in the streets, which left one protester dead and more than 100 badly wounded, that Canada announced that next year's meeting of the seven largest industrial nations and Russia would be held in a small resort, Kananaskis, an hour from Calgary, Alberta. Canada's prime minister, Jean Chretien, clearly hopes that the site will prove remote enough to discourage demonstrators, who poured into Genoa by bus, rail and plane. 
And to restore the summit meetings to the kind of intimate gathering they were conceived as a quarter century ago, he insisted that each nation would be limited to 30 to 35 members at the central site. Mr. Bush's Secret Service detail is sometimes that size; here in Genoa, he was accompanied by somewhere between 800 and 1,000 staff members.
Mr. Bush insisted today that the summit meeting was "a success," and he stressed the discussions that took place with leaders of a handful of developing nations as evidence that the group was refocusing its attention on helping the world's poorest. But other leaders seemed relieved to be leaving town, and used considerable restraint in describing the meeting's accomplishments.
"Everyone feels the G-8 has to continue," insisted Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, who now faces what could be a politically damaging inquiry into abuses here by the Italian police, including a raid on Saturday night on the headquarters of one of the main protest groups. The police went in swinging clubs, and today there were signs of blood in the building. 
A communique issued by the eight leaders -- from the United States, Britain, Japan, Germany, Italy, France, Canada and Russia -- made no progress on their most contentious issue: global warming. The European nations, Japan and Russia succeeded in isolating Mr. Bush in his opposition to the treaty, and after hours of negotiation the communique demonstrated that Mr. Bush had not budged from his insistence that the emissions restrictions that are part of the Kyoto Protocol would prove costly to the United States.
"We all firmly agree on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions," the communique said. "While there is currently disagreement on the Kyoto Protocol and its ratification, we are committed to working intensively together to meet our common objective." 
Mr. Bush pointed instead to an agreement to set up a $1.3 billion United Nations fund to help people with AIDS and other communicable diseases, but that was negotiated before anyone arrived in Genoa. 
He also called for restarting the global trade talks that collapsed in Seattle in 1999, saying free trade is the way out of poverty. But at least in public, he never explicated the argument with much detail. 
While the annual meetings are rarely a hotbed of decisiveness, veterans of many such sessions said this one would be remembered more for the violence than for the accords. 
But Mr. Bush clearly hopes that it will be remembered, eventually, for something else: as the meeting that took the bite out of the opposition to his missile defense plan, and to the broader strategic rethinking behind it. And within hours of the announcement with Mr. Putin, it seemed to be having some of that effect.
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and a critic of Mr. Bush's plans to break out of the ABM treaty, said on CNN today, "This is very good news to me." The president's decision to open talks with the Russians, he added, "implies at least to me" that Mr. Bush "will not break out of the ABM treaty in the meantime." 
He concluded, "You don't walk away from a treaty without a new system being in place." 
Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, said he wanted to look at the development more closely, but added on NBC's "Meet the Press," that it was good for both sides "to try to find ways to put forth constructive dialogue and ultimately come to some agreement here."
Daryl G. Kimball, directer of the Coalition to Reduce Nuclear Dangers, said, "This acknowledges the reality of the U.S.-Russian strategic dialogue for years, that the United States' interest in missile defenses has stymied the achievement of reductions in offensive arsenals."
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, the Democratic vice presidential candidate last year, called it "another indication of what those of us who support the development of a missile defense have been saying, which is that it's a new world."
The talks with Mr. Putin have also taken some pressure off Mr. Bush here in Europe. The Europeans had used Mr. Bush's determination to go ahead with missile defense as a symbol of American unilateralism, and warned that he risked alienating the Russians. But as a senior British official said when Mr. Bush was in London on Wednesday, "if the Russians aren't complaining, we're certainly going to give the president some room." 
Several months ago, Mr. Bush's top aides said they were prepared to offer Mr. Putin several incentives to abandon the ABM treaty and cooperate on a missile shield meant to repel such things as terrorist attacks, blackmail threats by rogue states, and accidental missile launchings.
Mr. Putin traveled through Europe earlier this year drumming up opposition to an American missile defense system, claiming that it would prompt an arms race Russia could not afford but that it would pursue, if necessary. But then, after the Slovenia meeting, he took another tack, telling reporters that he believed that the missile defense system, if deployed, would not effectively counter Russia's huge nuclear arsenal for at least 25 years.
"He's right," a senior Bush adviser said here. "Actually, it's probably longer than that." If so, Mr. Putin may conclude that the coming talks are the only way of determining if the United States is truly willing to cut its nuclear arsenal dramatically. 
And there is a more subtle advantage for Mr. Putin: By haggling as an equal with Mr. Bush, he may help restore Russia's sense that it remains a major power in the world, despite its economic decline, its territorial shrinkage and its declining diplomatic influence. 
If an agreement is reached, the biggest effects may be on China, which will not be a party to the new talks. While Russia would retain a nuclear force able to overwhelm the kind of defense system that Mr. Bush has described, China's small nuclear force could well be countered. 
Only last week Mr. Putin and President Jiang Zemin of China signed a friendship treaty, but it is unclear how Mr. Putin plans to juggle the superpowers on his east and west flanks.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wall to wall world leaders: the Group of 8 national leaders and European representatives at the end of summit talks yesterday in Genoa, Italy. From left, Junichiro Koizumi of Japan; Tony Blair of Britain; President Bush; Jacques Chirac of France; Silvio Berlusconi of Italy; Vladimir V. Putin of Russia; Jean Chretien of Canada; Gerhard Schroder of Germany; Guy Verhofstadt of Belgium, and Romano Prodi of the European Commission. (Reuters)(pg. A8); President Putin and Bush at their Genoa news conference yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); GERHARD SCHRODER (59%); TONY BLAIR (59%); JEAN CHRETIEN (59%); ROMANO PRODI (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ITALY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (69%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



599 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Bush and Putin Discuss New Defense Talks Stance
On the last day of a meeting of the leaders of the world's richest nations, President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia agreed to link discussions of American plans to deploy a missile defense system with the prospect of large cuts in both nuclear arsenals, hinting that if an accord was reached quickly it might take the place of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty. A1

The national leaders and the leaders of groups that sought to protest peacefully at the summit meeting began reflecting on how to carry out their goals without repeating the violence that marked the meeting in Genoa. The national leaders sought a remote location for their next meeting, while the groups that came to march pondered how to deal with violent protesters. A9

Indonesia Moves to Oust Leader
Indonesia's legislature began proceedings aimed at removing President Abdurrahman Wahid from office and ending the short, tempestuous rule of the country's first democratically elected leader in a generation. It planned to install Vice President Megawati Sukarnoputri as his successor. A1

Rebels Enter Macedonia Town
Ethnic Albanian rebels have taken advantage of a NATO-brokered cease-fire in Macedonia to move into Tetovo and a few surrounding villages in an area of western Macedonia that is mainly populated by Albanians, right under the noses of government forces. A6

Norway to Export Blubber
Norwegian whalers are preparing to export hundreds of tons of edible minke whale blubber to Japan in the face of widespread condemnation by nations that oppose whaling. Such exports would represent the first international trade in whale products in more than a decade. A6

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Climate Treaty Marathon
For the second time in eight months, the fate of the Kyoto Protocol, the first treaty to require cuts in gases linked to global warming, came down to a marathon all-night session as countries sought to ensure that the agreement to protect the atmosphere did not harm their economies or other interests. The United States remained immersed in the talks, but was on orders from the White House not to interfere with other countries' efforts to reach a consensus, even though President Bush rejected the treaty as "fatally flawed." A3

Stem Cell Research Debate
As President Bush and Congress struggle with the question of regulating embryonic stem cell research, one fact is being overlooked: nearly two dozen states have laws that govern research on embryos and fetuses, and at least nine ban any experimenting with human embryos. A12

Dinosaur Crossing
Plans to turn clay pits in Golden, Colo., into a golf course have prompted a dispute about measures to preserve dinosaur footprints. A10

NATIONAL A10-15

Choice to Head Joint Chiefs Seen As Signal on Military
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has the opportunity in coming days to put an indelible personal stamp on the American military when he gives President Bush his recommendation for the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The selection of the nation's chief military adviser to the president is anticipated as a statement of how Mr. Rumsfeld expects to carry out Mr. Bush's defense priorities. A1

Ethanol Gains Ground
Supporters of the fuel made from corn are gaining in their push to make it a major part of the nation's energy policy despite persistent doubts about its economic and environmental benefits. The Senate's new Democratic leaders and the Bush administration are promoting a growing number of measures to bolster ethanol demand. A1

Cleanup in Baltimore
Crews worked to pull the last smoldering boxcars from a downtown tunnel, days after a train derailment and fire shut down parts of the city and disrupted Internet service nationwide. A10

Shuttle on Its Way Home
Atlantis and its crew left the International Space Station and headed for home, their mission accomplished despite what one astronaut called "bumps in the road." The shuttle is due back at Kennedy Space Center early tomorrow. A14

Bar Report on Campaign Funds
States should provide public financing for campaigns for judgeships to limit the growing role of money in judicial politics, a study by the American Bar Association is to recommend this morning. A10

Raising Capital, and Criticism
Haley Barbour, the Washington lobbyist and former chairman of the Republican National Committee, contends that the campaign finance system does not need to be overhauled -- and it is not hard to see why. Already, with the White House in Republican hands, he has become the capital's most successful lobbyist and party fund-raiser. Some advocates of revamping political donations are critical of his influence and his dual roles. A14

ARTS E1-8

Pitfalls for Performing Arts
The foremost presenters of the performing arts in Middle America, medium-size arts institutions, are likely to face financial strains and even sudden death, a study of 30-year trends in the performing arts has found. The RAND Corporation study concludes that in order to survive many of these groups will have to become more community oriented and adjust their budgets, programs and styles to build audiences. E1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Modern Concerns Threaten Those Old Swimming Holes
Coalitions of swimmers, land conservation groups and local officials are trying to save an endangered joy of summer, community swimming holes. In High Falls, 90 miles north of New York, and elsewhere around the nation, these popular spots are quietly fading away as an influx of affluent newcomers assert themselves as country landowners. They are fencing off the swimming holes, literally or figuratively, because they expect privacy at their bucolic hideaways and, in these increasingly litigious times, they fear being sued. A1

Town Returns From the Dead
The rebirth of the stately American Hotel is the most visible symbol of the comeback of Sharon Springs, N.Y., a legendary but depopulated Brigadoon of gingerbready, abandoned Victorian resort hotels. Rooms are being rented at the American for the first time in five decades. Sharon Springs "has literally come back from the dead," said State Senator James L. Seward, who represents the historic mineral-spring village and remembers when not a living soul stirred on Main Street. B1

Candidate Criticizes Giuliani
The Republican mayoral candidate Michael R. Bloomberg, after weeks of offering little but praise for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, criticized Mr. Giuliani as being wrong in 1995 when he ousted Yasir Arafat from a concert for world leaders. B3

EDUCATION

City School Plan
Chancellor Harold O. Levy has ordered the New York City public school system's 32 district superintendents to meet with his deputies at least four times a year to analyze reams of data about their students, schools and teachers, and to outline strategies for improvement. The data, and the superintendents' responses to it, will factor heavily into their annual evaluations, which Mr. Levy began conducting last year. B1

OBITUARIES B6

Joan Bove
A New Yorker who helped make hair-coloring respectable by introducing stylists to a product called Clairol that she and her husband discovered in Paris, she was 99. B6

Aveline Kushi
An advocate of a macrobiotic diet who taught cooking and helped found one of the first natural food stores in America, she was 78. B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Duval Wins British Open
David Duval captured his first major with a final round that started with four players tied for the lead, and ended as a defining performance for his career. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Cable Deal Is Seen
Walt Disney is close to buying Fox Family Worldwide from the News Corporation and its partner for $3.2 billion, people close to the deal said. The agreement, which is expected to be announced as early as today, would add to Disney's cable operations a network with 81 million subscribers in the United States, 24 million in Europe and 10 million in Latin America. C1

Opposition to Hacker's Arrest
The arrest of a Russian programmer accused of violating an American digital copyright law has stirred opposition, both against the law itself and Adobe Systems, the software company that initiated the case. C1

Stock Scandal in India
India's anticorruption police arrested the former head of the country's largest mutual fund and three of its officials on charges of defrauding the fund of millions of dollars. C2

Cell-Phone Chips For Sale
Motorola plans to announce today that it will sell its most advanced cell-phone microchip sets, software and production tools to anyone who wants to buy them, including major rivals of its own handset unit. C2

Architect Hired as Adviser
Conde Nast has hired the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas as an adviser to its magazines. C10

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Mr. Bush's Genoa diplomacy; rethinking Mexican immigration; unhealthy cuts for Head Start.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E5
Public Lives A10
Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather D10

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WHALING (86%); MARINE MAMMALS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); RIOTS (69%); CLIMATOLOGY (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (73%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 



600 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
The pioneering spirit lives on at Apple Computer, and the industry cannot afford to ignore it.

BYLINE:  By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
BY the usual yardstick of market share, Apple Computer is a computing pipsqueak. Its slender slice of personal computer sales is less than 4 percent in the United States, and its share of the global market is even slimmer. Yet in terms of industry attention, press coverage and attendance at trade shows like the Macworld Expo in New York last week, Apple still looms pretty large.
 Why? History and wishful thinking are part of the explanation. Apple was a pioneer, so an inordinate share of industry people and technology journalists got hooked on computing thanks to the Apple II and, later, the Macintosh. 
 The wishful thinking is that the Macintosh represents a real alternative to Microsoft's world of Windows. True, Apple does well in some specialist markets -- sales to schools and graphic design professionals. But the cold truth is that Macintosh sales are little more than a rounding error in the vast Windows empire.
Marketing plays a role. Apple's co-founder, Steven P. Jobs, has no equal in presenting the message -- or illusion -- that personal computing is about something more than mere megahertz, gigabytes and dollars.
Apple's outsized influence in the industry, however, is not just a matter of nostalgia and charisma. At Apple, especially since Mr. Jobs returned from exile in 1997, some of the old pioneering spirit still lives. Apple forges directions in personal computing that others often follow, or at least cannot ignore.
"You have to watch Apple," said Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies, a consulting firm in Campbell, Calif. "The generic PC has lost its luster. But Steve Jobs believes that the personal computer is still a platform for innovation, both in product design and in technology."
Even some longtime Apple skeptics say that a combination of market and technology forces could be lining up in the company's favor. In the last few years, Apple has become a much more competitive company. One result is that the traditional price-performance gap between Apple and industry-standard Windows-based machines has closed dramatically. In fact, with the aggressive price-and-performance improvements announced at Macworld last week, Apple has essentially closed the gap, even gaining the upper hand on some lines.
Much of personal computing, especially in the consumer market, has become based on the Internet -- instant messaging and downloading music, for example -- so that the underlying operating system matters less. In addition, some analysts say, the outlook for the standard Windows-Intel PC industry is cloudy. Machines using Intel's new Pentium 4 microprocessor have not yet ignited sales, they say, and it remains unclear whether consumers will be lured by Microsoft's Windows XP, which includes a bundle of Web services, when it is shipped in October.
So Apple could stand to benefit with competitive machines and prices, plus the company's traditional message that the Macintosh system makes computing easier. "I've never drunk the Apple Kool-Aid, but I think Apple has a real opportunity to gain market share," said Aaron Goldberg, vice president of the Ziff-Davis Market Experts Group, a research firm. "For the first time in years, Apple could be the hunter instead of the hunted."
Mr. Jobs is also trying to gain market share with a new direction. Since the start of the year, he has been talking about transforming the personal computer into a "digital hub" -- a machine not only for word processing, e-mail and Web surfing, but also a tool for editing pictures, video, CD's and DVD's.
Much of the new software Apple has released recently, including its new Mac OS X operating system and specialized multimedia software like iTunes and iDVD, is intended to hasten the metamorphosis of the personal computer into the digital hub. In a sense, Apple is trying to allow ordinary consumers to do what until now only entertainment professionals have done -- use computers to edit and program digital video and audio. A person can now do with a home movie many of the editing tricks -- adding music, mixing video clips -- that film and advertising professionals have been doing for years.
Simplifying these complex tasks, Mr. Jobs insists, plays to Apple's strength as an integrated supplier of hardware and software. While Apple buys most of its hardware components from outside suppliers, it invests heavily in engineering and product design, and it owns its operating system.
Mr. Jobs points to the task of editing, or "burning," a DVD movie and sound track. "That is a systems problem," he explained in an interview. "It involves hardware, software and applications." And he contrasted the Apple formula with the PC model. "How do you do that with six different companies involved, and it isn't really a priority for any of them?" he said. 
Apple's digital hub strategy is based on software. And the new software-enabled uses of the computer are a much more subtle sale than a stylish new hardware design. That is why Apple has begun opening its own stores -- two in May, with 25 across the country planned by the end of the year. A flashy new computer, like Apple's pearl-white iBook notebook, introduced in May, needs only a magazine ad to show its striking appearance. But software requires a demonstration -- people have to see the new uses. "The stores are crucial, because it is software that has to be sold," noted Charles Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company.
Yet Apple is opening its stores just as Gateway -- the other personal computer company that opened its own stores -- is closing many down.
The Apple strategy also depends on consumers buying related gear, like digital cameras and digital video cameras, which remains fairly expensive.
But Mr. Jobs is not squeamish about such risks. When discussing the Macintosh G4 Cube, a beautiful machine that sold poorly after it was introduced last year, he enumerates the lessons learned -- mainly, that the closed-box design sacrificed expansibility, which professional users want and need. Yes, he acknowledges, it was a failure.
"And we'll have more," Mr. Jobs said. "If we don't miss once in a while, we aren't trying hard enough." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (94%); MARKET SHARE (92%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (73%); INSTANT MESSAGING (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%); INTERNET AUDIO (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; SALES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); INTEL CORP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (89%) LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001 

 
